tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, we have an embarrassing situation on behalf of humanity. Yesterday was the day of the black people, blind in their eyes, deaf in their ears, sealed in their hearts. We're members of a belief that killing a human being is intended to kill the entire human race. Yesterday, we witnessed another day when all humanity was killed. From the time he was born on Palestinian soil, the Israeli State has added a new one to these massacres, which has become a habit of bloodshed and slaughtering. The tension, which began when President Donald Trump of the United States decided to move the embassies in Tel Aviv, knowing that he had poured gasoline into the fire, has now caused the testimony of 61 Palestinian brothers and sisters to be injured by close to 3,000 people. Israel, which has occupied Palestinian territory since 1967, is expanding its unfair act. Israel's actions against peace and peace in the Middle East are protected by the United States of America.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0002par0007	But you supported America at 68.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0008	Yesterday, Israel had the largest reaction to the one who launched an initiative to inherit Jerusalem with the support of the United States. Our Palestinian brothers and sisters reacted democratically in Bethlehem, Ramallah, Al Halil, Nablus, Jericho, and Gaza, for a handful of their lands. Their unarmed demonstrations were sought by Israel by the most violent methods. The last shot fired by snipers, 61 Palestinian brothers were killed, and we have nearly 3,000 wounded brothers and sisters. There's no telling how many casualties your number will go up. We expect them to pursue politics more responsible than the United States of America and the heads of state Donald Trump. Jerusalem is considered a holy city for three heavenly religions. His recognition of it as the capital of Israel and moving to the embassy will not contribute to the solution of the Palestinian issue, but will make it my undoing. At this point, we'd expect them to act as a responsible state, but we see that there's been an eclipse under the United States of America. The world and our region need peace, where we repeatedly recommend that the United States of America avoid peace, peace, and security corrupting initiatives. As we watch, we curse the slaughter of Israel as hard as we can. Again, we invite the United States of America, which has led to such inhuman massacres, to be more reasonable.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0003par0009	You're very kind, aren't you?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0010	Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, on February 4, 2009, was responsible for the reaction of Israeli President Shimon Peres. In World War II, members of a nation who had seen Nazi camps seem to have taken no example from history. We advise them to be more responsible for politics than those who rule the state of Israel and to consider the gas chambers, the soappots, where their ancestors were murdered in Nazi Germany when they ordered the Palestinians to be shot at. Dear lawmakers, this year's 70th year of its establishment is the history of the state of Israel, massacre and genocide. Based on the Palestinian map, the developments show that this is obvious. On May 11, 1948, this terrorist state declared its independence, making our Palestinian brothers a pariah on its own soil, and adding a new one to its massacres yesterday. Our state, which did not remain silent in the face of the massacre, declared three days of mourning yesterday that we were with our Palestinian brothers and that we shared their pain, and that we will meet next Friday at the Istanbul Yenikapı rally. The silence of the so-called civilized countries in the face of the massacres of the state of Israel makes a lot of sense. Those who remain silent in the face of the atrocities committed by Israel are also partners in this violence. It should not be forgotten that the end of those who assume that they will be persecuted will be ruined, and that the tears of the innocent and the oppressed will one day drown the wrongdoers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0015	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0016	...On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ (P.S.) has an off-the-book request for the issue of Jerusalem, according to the second joke of Article 59 of the Interior Charter.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0017	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0018	I'll grant this request before it's on the agenda. After the Minister's statement, the political party groups will be granted ten minutes at will and five minutes at a time for one of the lawmakers without a group.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0020	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0021	I will now grant the government's request to speak off the agenda. The deadlines are 20 minutes for the government, ten for political party groups, five for lawmakers without a group.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0024	Mr. Mahmut, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0025	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0026	No, is your statement on behalf of the group?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0027	I have a statement, and I'll let you know...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0028	Allow us to continue the agenda.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0029	You'll continue the agenda, Mr. President. I'll give you my request after that.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0030	I'll listen to it, sir. Now, in the name of the government...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0032	Sir, my request is...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0033	...Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ will speak. Mr. Bekir, come in, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, 6. You're the one who claps for America when it's said to be against the fleet.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0037	No, sir, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0038	You're either going to apologize...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0039	Mr. Mahmut, you've made this a custom, you don't have to talk at every session.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0040	...or you can't sit there!
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0041	Please know the Civil Code, take your seat, I promise you not to. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0043	Look, either you apologize... you're the one who applauded America!
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0044	Come in, I don't hear your words. Come in.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0004par0045	Damn it, six. When it is called the Fleet, you are the man who attacked them against the Sea Gezdan and his friends who stood by the Palestinian Liberation Army. You're the one who said, "Long live America!" Either you will not sit there, or you will apologize.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0005par0047	Sit the fuck down! You're rude!
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0048	Just a minute, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tanal, your age doesn't know those days.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0006par0050	You are the man who supports America.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0051	You, you... wait a minute... sit down. I get it. Sit down. You did. Sit down and listen.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0006par0052	You're the one who applauded the American fleet.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0053	You spoke and listen. You do not know those days. That's me in those days, that's six. I had nothing to do with the fleet incident.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0007par0054	It's all been during your presidency.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0055	Those who say it are completely ignorant, completely defamatory, utterly soulless, unconscionable.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0008par0056	All the history books are writing it.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0007par0057	It's all registered.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0058	I'm warning you. Please take your seat, one. Secondly, I've been president of the national Turkish Student Union, and I've put two flags in front of my building, one of which is a sickle hammer, and I've pulled a cross, one of which is an American flag, times it. I said neither America nor Russia!
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0009par0061	You're saying it's unreal, you're saying it's unreal.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0062	I said the national road, that's the kind of person I am. My voice on the back of my neck...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0009par0063	You supported America at that time.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0064	Listen! Don't be fooled by the lies made up by communists who feel my breath on their necks. Please don't ruin the moon.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0009par0065	During that time, you supported America.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0010par0066	You didn't need that period, you were just supporting America last month. You said we got along so well. There's no need to go that far back.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0001par0067	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0011par0072	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under the political will of our nation, has gathered on a special agenda to discuss events in Palestine today that have led to the insurgency of all Muslims and oppressed people. I hereby salute the honorable members of the High Council separately. Congressmans, the United States moved its embassy to Jerusalem yesterday (May 14th), ignoring all international laws, established parameters, decisions by the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council and all the decisions under its signature, and all the will the international community has demonstrated under the roof of Istanbul (UN) and the United Nations General Assembly, and, unfortunately, many Palestinians lost their lives during the transport of this unjust, lawless, joy. The election of a day the Palestinians described as a great disaster for this devastating savings has sparked many negatives in the area where tension is high. The U.S. ambassadorship from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem is an open attack on the historical, legal, natural and national rights of the Palestinian people. Having the United States carry its embassy to Jerusalem is a common attack on Palestinians, not just Jerusalem, but all Muslims. The U.S. embassy to Jerusalem is a common attack not only on Islam, on Muslims but also on Christians and all sincere people who believe in the sanctity of this place. When we opened there yesterday, on the other hand, the soldiers of the terrorist state of Israel, unfortunately, shot and killed the Palestinian women, the children, the unarmed people, who, on the other hand, defended their rights and rights to injustice, law, and sought to cause this injustice and persecution. About 60 Palestinian brothers were killed, while about 3,000 Palestinian brothers were injured. For those who are martyrs, we pray for God's mercy, and seek immediate healing for the wounded. We're obliged to fight as human beings to create a human drama out of thin air. Peace and peace will never come to the Middle East until the Palestinian issue is dealt with fairly. Without resolving the problems in the Middle East, it will never achieve sustainable stability, prosperity, and peace on a global scale. Today, however, the fact that some environments have taken steps that deepen our region's unrest, instability, crises, conflicts, depressions, instead of trying to solve the Palestinian issue, unfortunately, has destroyed all the positive environment in the region. The United States, in its decision and in its stride, has completely destroyed the peacekeeping process, which has been barely run in the region so far. The United States of America is the first-degree perpetrator of the massacre of the Israeli soldiers yesterday, along with Israel. The Israeli soldiers and the Israeli government are, of course, responsible for this massacre in the first degree, but it's the U.S. government's actions that are responsible for the massacre. Thus, the United States government, as much as the Israeli military, is responsible for the massacres and injuries here in the first place. In the blood of the Philistines was the hand of the children of Israel, with the blood of the Philistines dripping from their hands, but now the blood of the innocent Palestinians is on the hand of the United States. On this occasion, we condemn the U.S. government and the United States, the terrorist state of Israel, once again as Turkey, with violence and hatred for their injustice, persecution, slaughter. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Dear MPs, but we, as Turkey, have to make a call not only to the Islamic world, but to all humanity. As our President underlines, all Christian and non-Muslims with a conscience have to take a common and active stand against this unlawful, conscience-wrenching attitude of the U.S. (Israel) and other non-Muslims. If we are silent in the face of death, persecution, and injustice, those who do wrong will suffer even greater injustices, greater persecutions, and greater slaughters. And the Susans can't get rid of the crimes of those who committed them, the moral responsibility of those who committed them. The issue is not only an attack on a city and its sacred places, but an attack on a religion, but at the same time, as of yesterday, international law is completely underfoot. At the coming point, it turns out that the international order based on rules has been shaken from its foundations. The international rule of law and international system, which have been violated in a peaceful way, through peaceful way of resolving international disputes, inter-state problems, and in a way that can be achieved, have failed as of yesterday. The fact that a system of worlds is being brought to life will not make our world safer than today, but will take us to a worse place. In this step, the United States ignored the most fundamental principles and historical facts of international law. This also means ignoring the will of the international community, which found its testimony at the United Nations General Assembly's decision on December 21, 2017 and the Extraordinary Islamic Summit on December 13th. In this step, the United States challenged international law, bilateral agreements, the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council's decisions to the ground, and I don't know them. The world is greater than five, which our President has long said. This reckless attitude reveals once again what his understanding means. For him, we, Turkey, will continue to be the conscience and voice of the oppressed and all those seeking justice to sustain and preserve justice throughout the world. And while the United States has unfairly punished the Palestinian side, which has repeatedly proven that it wants peace, it has unfortunately rewarded the state of Israel, the terrorist state of Israel, who has destroyed every hope of peace, who has never known the United Nations decisions, and who has been persecuted and massacred. Where there is no justice, there is no lasting peace. The United States, unfortunately, has destroyed the two states' basis for a solution, which is the most fundamental condition of peace. The United States is now part of the problem, not the solution. The solution plan for such a country is not believable or realistic. With this attitude, the United States has also shown the world that it will take a subjective, biased attitude rather than an objective, fair, neutral attitude in all the problems in our region. Therefore -- as Turkey -- Turkey -- Turkey will never accept the role of Turkey as mediator in its steps towards solving the issue of the United States and the Palestinian case and the discovery of the peaceful solution. The President of Palestine has already made the necessary statement. Israel's attacks on our Palestinian brothers -- and I've just expressed -- are clearly a massacre -- against the illegal actions of the United States. Israel, who does not respect Jerusalem's blessing and does not give up its resolve to carry out its embassy, is responsible for the massacres of U.S. government and civilians. On Monday (May 14th), when thousands of Palestinian brothers lost their lives and thousands of Palestinians were wounded, it will become a bloody and black day, one of the embarrassing pages of human history, taking its place in history. We're not just talking about Palestinians' right to legitimate response to injustice; we're talking about the right to life, which is the most basic human right for Palestinians, and we're talking about their right to live in a way that is free and worthy of human dignity in their own homes, under international legal parameters. Unfortunately for others, those who have spoken aloud have come up with an approach that ignores all of this when it comes to Palestine, when it comes to Jerusalem. The U.S. government's embassy to Jerusalem and its decisions on this matter, the position of Israel, the position of Israel, Turkey, international law, and the decision of international organisations are invalid, it means nothing to us. It will never change the historical status of Jerusalem, its moral status, its political status, its political status, its place due to international law, and the way Jerusalem became the capital of the Palestinian State of Palestine. No matter what step is taken, the truth will surely come to us one day as a reality accepted by the whole world. Jerusalem will eventually be free. Eventually, the United States and Israel will have to leave Jerusalem to its rightful owners. Just as the Crusaders had to leave Jerusalem to its rightful owners, those who enjoy it temporarily there today will someday pay for their joy and will be forced to abandon Jerusalem to its rightful owners. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Nothing has ever changed Jerusalem's historical status, its moral status, its political status, and its legal status as the capital of the Palestinian state, and it will not change its legal status, nor will it be possible to change it after that. Turkey will not shut up, even if the whole world stops talking about what happened to Jerusalem. Turkey will not be shy, even though the whole world is shy of the law, this reckless attitude of the United States. No matter what anyone says, according to the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish people, Jerusalem is the capital of the Palestinian state and will continue to be the capital. (EA/DG) Turkey will continue to be an advocate of the Palestinian cause and Jerusalem. By the time Israel's invasion of Palestine is over, Turkey will continue to maintain its position decisively until Jerusalem is liberated. After yesterday's developments, our government, Mr. President and all of our state's institutions have made the necessary assessments, and what steps can we take, what steps can we take in this regard as Turkey, and on this has been thoroughly evaluated. As you know, when he announced his decision to move the embassy earlier, he called an extraordinary meeting of the Islamic Co-operation Agency in Istanbul as the Summit President. This matter was considered at the extraordinary meeting, and Jerusalem's acceptance and declaration was made as the capital of the Palestinian state, and the whole world was invited to recognize this declaration. The United States has been called to keep up with the attitude of the United States and to avoid moving the country's embassies to Jerusalem, and, as you know, the United Nations Security Council discussed the issue, where four of the five permanent members, except one of the 15 members, all of the United States, were wronged. As you know, on December 21st, the issue came up in the General Assembly of the United Nations, where 128 of the 193 members judged the United States and Israel unfairly, and nine countries voted in favour of the United States -- including small islands -- abstained from 35 countries. It has once again been highlighted here that the decisions that intend to change the status, character, or demographic structure of the holy city of Jerusalem have no legal effect, are invalid, and that the Security Council must be annulled according to its decisions. These very important decisions were made because of the leadership of the state of the Republic of Turkey and the leader of Turkey, Mr. President, who led all of them. After yesterday's persecution and massacre, new steps have been assessed. Mr. President, with our ministers in London, it has been discussed in the Council of Ministers here at our Prime Minister's Office of Ministers, and it has been decided to take the following steps after the exchange phone calls: First of all, these Palestinian brothers and sisters in Gaza have been declared a national mourning for three days to show that we stand by the Palestinian cause of the terrorist state of Israel's attacks and because they are martyrs and that we honor our martyrs. Second: Today, in Parliament, you have handled this issue, and as representatives of the Turkish nation, the Turkish people will also shout out to the world from here that they have never known these unjust, unlawful, arbitrary steps taken, that the Turkish people are with the Palestinian people and that they have their solidarity with the Palestinian people. I hereby thank the representatives of our political parties, the members of the group, their leaders -- all of them -- for putting forth such a show of unity and unity and the will to be given a message to the world under the great House, which our nation represents. This is Turkey, this is the Turkish nation, this is the Great National Assembly of Turkey. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] To demonstrate our reaction to violence, to condemn the atrocities of Israel, and to show our support for Jerusalem and Palestine, our solidarity with Palestine on 18 May, at 1600 p.m., at all colors of society, all NGOs, all political party citizens, without any distinction, as in Parliament... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0012par0094	Please continue, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0011par0095	... He will show the world once again that the people of Turkey are not silent in the face of injustice, that he is not silent in the face of persecution, that he defends persecution to the face of the oppressors. And that's extremely important. Also on Friday, Turkey called an extraordinary meeting of the Islamic Co-operation Agency in Istanbul. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State and the relevant officials are continuing their talks with their clients. On Friday morning, this summit will be held, and a common position of Islamic countries will be shown from here to the world. That's another very important step. Turkey also supports the UN Security Council's call for a meeting. The State Department has also attempted to call a meeting of the United Nations General Assembly and to raise a new attitude on the matter. In addition to the treatment of our Palestinian brothers who were injured in the region, the evacuation of the region, the removal of Turkey if necessary, the Red, our AFAD, our General Staff, our TİKA, the state of Turkey are mobilising with all its resources and capabilities. But unfortunately, I'd like to point out from here that the terrorist state of Israel, who committed this persecution, does not allow drugs to be delivered to the wounded there, does not allow the wounded to be evacuated. We're trying to get those drugs there again from Israeli businessmen for $100, but unfortunately they don't even have the stomach for it. Such a lack of conscience, such humanity. Violence, persecution. We condemn this atrocities and persecution once again and say that no matter what they do, eventually, Jerusalem will be liberated, as we say, and as the capital of the Palestinian independent state, will continue to honor and live. (APPLAUSE) Those who come in today will look back as they came in these massacres, and there is no cure; these steps will only serve to speed up this progress. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I thank you, each and every one of you, to the esteemed members of our House and political party groups, who today have been an interpreter to our nation's sense of this matter.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0013par0101	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Now, it's time for those who speak for the party groups. The first word belongs to İstanbul MP Professor Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu Bey on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0014par0106	Mr. President, not just 80 million Turkish nations, but 1.6 billion Muslim worlds and billions of people with a conscience, we are facing a one-sided, unjust, law and international norms, and a situation that violates the foundations of international legitimacy. The United States has moved its embassy to Jerusalem, as if it violates international law and the decisions of all relevant United Nations General Assembly and Security Council. That is the Day when those who do not have a right will count as the Day of Judgement. Today is the day when the landowners end their lives in the land that has been destroyed. A hundred years ago, the Balfour Declaration, which led to the invasion, promised those far away from the land that did not belong to them. In its background, the decision of the division of 70 years ago and the establishment of the state of Israel, the European anti-Semitics pay their own bills to the Palestinian people and give more than half of these lands to the Israeli state. Fifty-one years ago, in 1967, East Jerusalem was taken from the Palestinians by force. The tragedy and suffering so far have been unbearable, much less reduced by the recent move of President Trump of the United States. President Trump will take this step as a black mark in history, with his own internal policy debates, when all the presidents before him refused to make it. This unfair savings has eliminated America's title as a fair and impartial mediator in the Palestinian case. His insistence on moving the United States administration's embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem has destroyed the opportunities to solve the most fundamental problem in the Middle East. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we share the common feeling and attitude of 80 million Turkish nations in the case of Palestine and the preservation of what we consider to be the most important element of its Jerusalem-u Sharif status and the invasion of Israel and the seizure of Israel, and we find the State Department's statement on this matter accurate yesterday. In addition, it is an important development when the President of the Islamic Co-operation Organization re-invites the Islamic Summit to Istanbul next Friday. In this context, I'd like to draw the attention of the concerned to two things: First, in order to avoid the conditions that prevent this summit from happening, we need to determine the procedural options. In such a short amount of time, a summit at the level of heads of state and government can be found in some obstacles. However, when I was a secretary general, the new requirement for the organization is in effect, and it is possible to overcome these obstacles. No doubt it will take a long time to explain these procedural details here. I've passed on my thoughts to the members of the State Department, and I'm always ready to pass them along. The second issue was that after President Trump's decision last year in December, I shared a number of issues regarding these issues at the summit in İstanbul on December 13, 2017. All those attending the meeting had pledged to take all necessary measures to preserve the status of the Sheriff of Jerusalem. So from last December -- six months ago -- until today, all measures had to be taken. Now it's been six months since then. What are these measures, what are the measures taken; it needs to be explained. Now, at the summit next Friday, which is expected to be held, the Islamic world and the international public will ask what measures have been taken over the course of six months. And the 23-point summit statement adopted in December is 8th. The lute is this: "East Jerusalem is the capital of the Palestinian state, and we invite all states to recognize the Palestinian state and the occupied capital of East Jerusalem." After the meeting, all eyes, especially eyes in the Islamic world, are above Turkey. So the decision from the summit and the conclusion declaration is number 8. The whole world wondered how his decision would be carried out. In December, I said: "I am afraid that some of the 23 articles in this declaration will not be traced because they are not followed. " We wish for the implementation of the verdict. Now the international public will ask us the first question... most of the decisions made on December 13, 2017 were a repeat and confirmation of the old decisions, as I pointed out that day. They're going to say: "What have you done?" Now, for the next summit, I want to say this: something different has to be done. So I propose three things: the first one is to prevent the conflict of the fighting Palestinian forces, which is to fix the problems between the Conquistador and Hamas. There's a result here that's been achieved before, and we need to do it again. The international rights search took place in the forums; the first, the Palestinian state, was a member of the United Nations UNESCO and the Criminal Court. Now, these war crimes must be brought to the International Criminal Tribunal in Rome, but Israel may be cut off by decisions from there. The third is that the Jerusalemites are allowed to live on their own land, and that the basic needs of the Jerusalemites, such as education, health, housing, are also created in a civilized way. The earlier strategy must be implemented immediately. Mr. President, dear friends, many decisions have been made, many summits have been made since the day it was founded in the Islamic Co-operation Agency for Palestine, 1969; unfortunately, few of these decisions have been implemented. Our hope is that the next summit will be different and that our country will make its leading point in this matter in a concrete way. Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I hereby condemn this unlawful, brutal and brutal attack. As the holy month of Ramazan approaches, I pray that His Holiness will grant our country, the Islamic world, and especially our Palestinian brothers, peace and security. Mr. President, my dear friends, with this speech, I think I've fulfilled one of my last duties in this General Assembly. With the end of this General Assembly, my term of office will be over. I've spent nearly three years under this roof with all of you. In the hope that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Turkish state will last forever, I give you all my love, respect, and heartfelt gratitude. If we have any brothers who are here and who aren't, I'd like them to give us their rights. I'm sorry if we snuck in in these three years. My respects to all of you, my love.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0015par0120	Thank you very much, Mr. Ihsanoglu. No goodbyes in politics. Maybe you won't be here, but we'll always take advantage of your ideas as Turkey. Thank you. It now belongs to Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen Bey on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0016par0126	Mr. President, I think the easiest thing about Palestine is to say things that sound good. As far as I could look at yesterday, I scanned the television channels of the Islamic countries, where there was a seminal parliament or an official platform to talk about, and there was very, very, very exciting, full of eloquence. But what's the result? So what I know is that the same things that have been discussed in the Palestinian problem for 20 years are not one step further than to turn around and argue, condemn, and curse. On the contrary, count the problems one by one. Is the occupied land narrowed down in the meantime? No, on the contrary, the occupation is growing. Has the number of Palestinians been reduced during that time? No, the number of replacements is increasing. Well, shouldn't you think about it, what's with 1.5 billion Muslims being sensitive about something, but there's no progress in the Palestinian problem? I think we should be at a time when we're going to do some concrete accounting, or there's no distance we can get from having some pretty exciting conversations or something. It's very clear. One simple comparison, because it was just made in both speeches. When the Crusades took place, how many Muslims were in the world, how many Jews and Christians were there? And there's a success, how many Muslims today, how many members of religions in the Middle East, and what is the actual situation, since 1948? Clearly, there's no weight, no deterrent, no efficiency, no credibility, nothing that Muslims say here. Only Muslim societies are being gased, only their anger is being extinguished, only their emotional worlds are being manipulated, but there is no concrete, clear step in solving the problem. Dear friends are measured by politics. If you don't have a deterrent, a powerful tool, a tool, you just talk. Opposition can speak, civil society can. Do you have any doubts about the Turkish community? Is there a servant of God who says, "Israel does well, he does well, he does well, the Palestinians deserve it?" Did you hear that? No. So, what are we propaganda for? If 99% -- let's leave a 1% share -- about 100 percent of the Islamic world is determined about Palestine, if it's sincere, why isn't this problem solved? Isn't that what you need to focus on? But that's not the picture, guys. Let us be clear, Israel is not only responsible for its policies, it is not only the government of Israel, it is the land of the Gulf. They're the Gulf countries where we're allies, military cooperation, trade, religious, cultural partnerships that we think we are. Without the encouragement of the Gulf countries, without its secret support, could Israel be doing this despite the entire Islamic world, despite all Middle Eastern peoples? Is there a real response to this in real politics? So I guess there's a lot more need for serious accounting here than for a big, exciting lecture. If we want to keep another Palestinian's nose from bleeding, if we want to keep one more person in place, one more square inch of land, we have to do a sincere, open, honest accounting. Dear friends, we'll stick the needle in ourselves, there's nothing to tell the public. This is the Parliament, which signed under the text of the Blue Marmara and under the declarations of Ankara, confirming and confirming it, dear friends. No, it's not. If you say so, go out and say it. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) How did you get Jerusalem and Ankara to Parliament two years ago with the signature of the Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs in a text? Why did you bring it? Don't you understand that? When Jerusalem was written in front of Ankara, did you not know what purpose it was, and what purpose it was written for? When we warn it here, when we remind it, no, there is no such thing. There's no such text. You said it. Now that the text is out there, the English text is all over the place. At least bring it over here so we can renegotiate this deal, withdraw this deal. The Parliament was deceived, the people were deceived, the world of Islam was misled, and we did something without knowing it in the Blue Marmara. Now, for the sake of 60 people who have lost their lives, we withdraw this agreement. Any questions about the trade deals? No. You just reminded me of Balfour. Dear friends, there are thirty years between Balfour and the establishment of 1948 Israel. What country is behind the Balfour Declaration? To what country does Israel owe this kind of sass to so far? Well, Mr. President has just arrived from England, what did he say to England about it? Come out and explain, and we'll give you a round of applause, and we'll stand behind you. But, my friends, the issue of Jerusalem is the diet of politicians who rule the Islamic countries of the Middle East who can't afford to pay for it very clearly, it's the plague. The only reason why it can't be taken a single step towards Jerusalem is because the Middle East rulers, instead of actually seeing it as a tension of religion, do not want to see it as a peace of the Middle Eastern people but simply try to relax their own emotional worlds, their own consciences. We're still calling the United Nations, we're still waiting for something from the Islamic Co-operation Agency, but in the Middle East, the Islamic countries don't talk about anything concrete about what they're going to do, they don't offer anything concrete. Today, there will likely be a strong reprimand, a curse, and an exciting lecture on the streets for two or three days, but Israel will continue to invade, and the Palestinians will continue to be expelled from their homeland, and our bilateral relations with governments that spoil Israel will continue to observe. So we really only need one thing: just intimacy. If there's anything we can really afford, if there's anything concrete we can put forward, we need to talk about it. If there's nothing we can do, if we're desperate, if we're going to mess up and just talk, if we're going to condemn and curse and relax, then know that we're going to talk more about Palestine, cry more, cry more, but we can't do anything to help the Palestinian problem. I think we've reached the final point of confrontation here. The Middle East, the Middle East people, the believers, if they don't mind the shooting of Syrian lands on the night of the candle, I think the words they're going to say about killing 60 Muslims and the thousands of them getting hurt won't be very convincing, very serious. Why is this geography like this? Despite its manpower, why can't this land produce a serious deterrent policy against its economic resources, its potential? This needs to be put on the table. The Palestinian problem now needs to be addressed as the common problem of mankind, no matter what worldview, no matter what ideology, no matter what belief, without any anti-Semitic reflex, without falling into any kind of anti-Semitic reflex, like any anti-Semitism. Because it was clear to us yesterday that the Jews who responded most strongly to Israel's actions in America were Jews, who, despite the government's policy in Israel, went out on the street to condemn Israel's actions. Now, even with such a clear attitude within the Jews, if there is no will to deter the Israeli government from its policy, to reverse it, if there is no concrete environment, I think it's direct interest in the power of the mind and the will that governs these countries, the capacity to understand them, and the potential to make solutions. Of course it can be condemned, of course it can be shown social sensitivity, but what are we going to do to solve the problem, what do we propose? What do we offer to society, to the Islamic world, to the Palestinians? We have to talk about this. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0017par0134	Sir, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz Bey is in charge. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0018par0137	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I salute the High Council. Every time the President of the United States Trump is trapped inside, he wants to create a motive for foreign policy and somehow get rid of his stuck inside. On the other hand, Janitor Netanyahu is entering into new strategies and new openings, taking advantage of the United States's ability to take advantage of its insideness and gain its own advantage. As you know, one of the most important issues in recent years was the compression of Iran, and Israel's bombing of Syria, and the United States's. When we're talking about something here, when we're talking about Israel and Palestine, if we go through the larger dimension of the event, the evaluation is actually incomplete. Let us point out that no strategy in the Middle East works without the benefit of Israel, and nothing progresses without the approval of the United States. So the strategy in the Middle East corresponds with the priorities of Israel and the interests of the United States, and when the two forces come together, the map of the Middle East is shaped by its priorities. Now, Trump's decision regarding Jerusalem, the embassy's decision to move from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, was completely wrong, and we said this here, and we said that this decision was provocative, and if it were put into effect, it could start a new Intifada in the Middle East, and similar things were happening. First of all, let's say, as a party, that today we openly condemn the massacre in Gaza. There's no reason. International law is in the way. The world's sensibility for this is zero, unfortunately not when it's a dying Muslim. Now, let's just say that the U.S. ambassadorship to Jerusalem, if that's what it's going to be, it might be nothing. Just hours after this decision was made, however, we saw that within the EU, countries are determined to move their embassies to Jerusalem, and small countries in Latin America, the servants of the United States, are on a similar road, carrying their embassies one by one. The move of the embassy to Jerusalem without a comprehensive solution to the Middle East peace process means: It means that Israel will give legitimacy to the strategy to invade Jerusalem, which has been owned by Israel for a long time. Now, as you know, the United Nations Security Council has five permanent members, one of which is one of the most important countries in the United Nations, and under two critical decisions from the United Nations Security Council, under the signature of the United States, Decisions 476 and 478. In those decisions, it is said that the physical character, demographic structure, institutional structure, and status of the sacred city of Jerusalem is unchangeable, so the United States has clearly signed this decision. Now this decision is being thrown away. The other decision also states that there will be no changes to Jerusalem's status, but it is chaos in the international community when those who make these decisions do not comply with those decisions. Right now, the international community is in chaos because they don't follow their own decisions. Now, let's just say, for once, the U.S. is not a mediator, it's a disruptive state now, and the world, unfortunately, has no conscience, no morals, no will to stand by the underdog. At Damascus Gate, people resist, standing at Jerusalem's gate. One of the most sacred places in Islam today is occupied, physically occupied, politically occupied, and no one can do anything. The United States, which had the most power over Israel, was with Israel. Who, therefore, will bring peace? Who will bring peace to the Middle East? It's unclear, and if it goes on like this, the instability will continue. Now, you see, in Gaza, bombs explode, and in Jerusalem, champagne explodes in the cocktail of the U.S. Embassy; injustice, unconscionableness, no rule at all. Unfortunately, this arrangement, indeed, is a terrible scheme and it will be destroyed. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, let's just say that Arab countries have failed. The Arab countries have always displayed their wealth, their finery, their vulgarity in Forbes magazine, but the man you see here has fought for his country in a wheelchair, for his honor, for his pride, for his country's struggle. For him, the Palestinian struggle is the struggle of all mankind, the struggle of people who are occupied, despised, oppressed, somehow reduced, and we need to be there for him. Now, let's say that Mr. Secretary -- of course we support the government at this time -- Mr. President says that Israel is a terrorist state. I'd like to record an insincerity. If Israel is a terrorist state, why are you sending ambassadors to Israel, a terrorist state? Why are you sending the consul general to a terrorist state? Why are you giving an ambassador to a terrorist state a residence in Ankara, a job? Why do you have a consul of a terrorist state in Istanbul? Why do you have business relations with a terrorist state, and why do you trade so hard? Why? Is a terrorist state considered a tourist? Why are you doing this? We have to say that there are two breaking points in terms of consistency and intimacy. It was after the coup attempt, and a month later, this Parliament was activated at 1:30 p.m. Why? To pass the agreement on normalisation with Israel. At 1:30 a.m., we put ourselves on the stand and said at 1:30 a.m.: "Look, this agreement is to violate the memory of the martyrs at the Blue Marmara. Don't do this for $20 million, don't do it, deny it. From then on, what you're saying is of no value. The second issue was the bombing of Syria. They bombed the Mirac night and you went out and applauded the United States. Did you do well? They subcontracted the Middle East; these are the Lawrences of today; they divide, they divide; they try to deal with the oil, the gas, the whole demographic structure of this place. Did you do well? Now, of course, they'll gather, of course we'll do our part in Palestine, of course we'll have to support it. But where you stand is where you lose credibility, there's no credibility left. Every pre-election Palestinian issue comes up before every election. Events took place in Palestine in 2004, 2014, and that was used. Muslim countries have nothing to do but promise. A man with a sense of country, a sense of country, a sense of Muslim solidarity, a sense of faith, should stand by the Palestinians in such a time without hesitation, unconditionally, unconditionally. But no, you'll see on Friday, they'll gather, they'll gas the inside and everyone will be on their way. If these Muslim countries had spent only 1 percent of their wealth on Palestine, spent it on Ramallah, spent it on Jericho, spent it on Nablus, and spent it on Gaza, the Palestinians would not have been miserable on those streets today, their hands wouldn't have been weak, they wouldn't have had to resist an occupying force with stone. The conscience of mankind is being tested and we are all being questioned. Ramadan is starting, and what we're going to say is that we have to be together, at least in national matters, we have to be together in matters where national sensitivity is high. And we need to know that this ignorance that has entered the Muslim world, as long as this insensitivity continues, there will never be a pattern. Because ISIS, El Nusra, all these organizations are using weapons against whom, who are they killing? He kills Muslims; none of them kills a Christian, one Jew, and none holds a weapon against another. People in our own geography are killing themselves.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0019par0156	I wish I could talk like you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0018par0157	You come in, you talk, you talk when it's your turn.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0020par0158	He'll talk after he signs.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0018par0159	After you sign it... I guess you can't talk, so you're on the edge.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0021par0162	Please address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0018par0163	Let's just say that we're witnessing the moments when humanity is over. What we see on Monday is violence. Millions trapped in an outdoor prison. Death falls from the sky. Children, women, people, they've put everything they can into action to free their own place, but there's desperation. It's surrounded, it's occupied, it's every day, it's every month -- thousands of people -- new settlements are being built there, nothing's being done. Now, all the decisions that Islam has made so far have gone to waste, none of them fit; hypocrisy, hypocrisy, hypocrisy continue. Look, there are the latest decisions made here, the decision of the Islamic Summit; the Palestinians would be helped, and this would be this. If they spent only a thousandth of the income spent by Arab countries for the post- Oil period, there wouldn't be one poor person today. People are desperate today.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0021par0166	Mr. Yilmaz, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0018par0167	We need to know that the Palestinians were taken from them, their weapons were taken, and they were condemned to stones. They're being asked to fight the stones, to fight for independence, and humanity is going through a really big test. I believe that mankind's honor will not be ruined. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0021par0170	Sir, the last word on behalf of the group belongs to İstanbul MP and Mr. Hasan Turan Bey, head of the Turkish-Palestin Friendship Group on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0022par0173	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group yesterday on behalf of the massacre carried out by the Israeli ionist forces in Gaza against the innocent, civilian Palestinian people. In this occasion, I salute our esteemed MPs, our beloved nation, who are watching us on the screens. And I salute Jerusalem, and I salute Abraham, and Moses, and David, and Solomon, and Jesus Christ, and Muhammad Mustafa the prophet of Israel, and the prophet of Mirac. I salute the Sheriff of Jerusalem and the provinces of Canaan, bearing the mark of the righteous. I salute the people of Palestine, who gave up their lives and their lives, to defend them with their bare feet, and with their bare hands, knowing the honour, honor, and dignity. As long as Jerusalem is free, I salute my Palestinian brothers who have sacrificed their freedom, who have spent their lives in the prison of Israel. As long as their children die in the cause of Palestine and in love with Jerusalem, their children are orphaned, I greet the mothers who are left without children. From here, I salute the Palestinian people, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, four hundred and one years of justice and mercy, from the Assembly of a nation who served that land with no weapon in hand, despite all the cruelty of the world, and all the violence of the world, and no weapons in hand, as they rewrote the concepts of weapons and bullets in their chest. I remember our martyrs with mercy and gratitude, and wish our veterans a speedy recovery. I thank the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our esteemed President, all of our political parties and MPs for this special session. Again, I thank our President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, for the conscience of the Islamic world, the quiet masses and the Muslim people. Again, my compliments to all our officials, including our government, our Prime Minister. The state of Israel was not formed in this region. After the Ottoman Empire began to withdraw from Palestinian territory in 1917, the British invaded and began to place all the Jews of the world on that land. It was an imperialist project, and as a result of this project, the Palestinian people were massacred by the continued terrorist organizations in the region. By the hands of the Israeli Jews, terrorist organizations of foreign Jews, Palestinians were being massacred every day, new extortions, and new invasions of the land. These invasions continued for more than thirty years, and on May 14, 1948 -- which everyone knows at the time -- Israel was declared here -- and today it has been the result of the imperial project of Israeli occupational policies, and all the global forces, global bandits, imperial states, the world's future stands behind them. Note the day Trump decided to open the embassy of the United States, in fact a new Jewish settlement in Jerusalem; the day that Israel declared its independence today, and a day after that, the Palestinian people were forced to emigrate and were slaughtered and exiled from their land. Today, the Palestinian people live in their own land in concentration camps, living in a semi-open prison, living as prisoners. Half the population of nearly 15 million people trying to live in their own land, in their own homes, in their strange homes, treating them as pariahs, while the other half are the largest refugee nation in the world. All global actors stand behind Israel, especially the imperialist forces that covet the subterranean and aboveground wealth of Middle Eastern geography. Israel does not commit these murders simply by drawing power from the silence of the Islamic world. Of course, the silence in our world supports that. It is not his own power that makes Pharaoh Pharaoh a pharaoh, but the silence of his slaves in the final analysis, which we know, but today Israel continues to commit murder in the accomplice of global forces, especially the United States. Because of these murders, we strongly condemn the Zionist Israeli forces and their chief supporter, the United States. Surely Allah will show them their reward in this world, and we believe in it with all our hearts; perhaps by our hand, perhaps by the hand of another people, only by the power of divine law, and as it was in the past; and those who look upon the pages of history, all the tyrants, all the tyrants, and all the oppressors, and the wrongdoers, and the disbelievers, and the disbelievers, and the disbelievers shall see what they have done. I believe with all my heart that one day, both America and Israel will be drowned in the blood that they shed today, and I look forward to becoming a soldier of that day. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dearly beloved MPs, today our country is the proudest, most glorious, most powerful defender of the Palestinian people in the world. We have not forgotten the days when we used to throw slogans in Turkey, not Israel, as a result of the beatings we received in the demonstrations that we had staged on the Palestinian trial in the past. However, today, a Jerusalem-loving leader of this country, despite all the sovereigns of the world, speaks to the world on all international platforms of Jerusalem's love, the case of Jerusalem, the innocent and oppressed Palestinians, despite the cost that we have already paid in this country's history. The president's word is greater than the world's fiveth. The word is that the world is at its best today. This global system of persecution in the world must be changed at once. For this reason, whether we are from different political parties, whether we have different political and ideological opinions, we need to be united and strong in the policies within this country, just as we share a common feeling in the matter of Jerusalem today, in the matter of Palestine. If we're strong, we'll all tear apart the crazy shirt that we're trying to get dressed for today. However, if we deal with each other, both in our country and in our region, then the enemies are taking power from our separation, from our fragmentation. Other speakers have just expressed that this is the main crime in the Gulf country, by stressing the situation of weakness in some poor white Americans, by stressing the situation of surrender. Yes, we know that, but we also know that over 1.5 billion Muslim peoples are now hurt by Jerusalem and that their heart is beating along with Jerusalem. If we can't do anything, we believe that a man's most powerful weapon is the word that speaks the truth, that we need to use our word to motivate societies. That's what we're trying to do, take the quiet world out of its silence. We invite Western societies to take action, whether they believe or not. In particular, on Friday's big meeting, we invite all our political parties, all the members of our nation, from whatever faith, from whatever ideology, from our star flag, under this flag carried by our fallen grandfathers on the Palestinian front. Let's keep our views on that side, but our saints share. As the poet put it, half of my heart is Mecca; half is Medina. It's spread like a net, Jerusalem, and Jerusalem is our qiblah. We're going into Ramazaneri tomorrow. The prophet of Ramadan was detained in the month of Ramadan. Here's the land he's risen to today under the occupation of the Zionist killers. The children of Jerusalem, the children of Palestine, pay a price for all of us. It's a crime to remain silent. In this regard, neutrality is dishonest. No matter what it's about...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0023par0185	Would you please wrap it up, sir?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0022par0186	I invite our entire nation to be the only punch in the matter of Jerusalem, about Palestine, at the heart and home of our geography. I want to thank our group for its sensitivity, a series of decisions made by our government. I want to thank all political parties, my brothers and sisters who came here with their Palestinian flags without distinction. I believe that without entering, Tephr can't enter an enemy of a nation, and as long as the hearts strike together, they can't digest it, not even America can. I believe that with all my heart. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Hopefully, one day, in the blood of those innocents they shed, both Israel and their masters, the United States, will drown their followers, especially. I salute you all with such feelings. God bless you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0024par0193	Thank you, Mr. Turan, thank you. As a member of the non-group, I would like to invite Mr. Professor Yusuf Halaçoglu Bey to speak. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0025par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. In international law, massacres without supervision are called human crimes. This act of massacre by Israel in Palestine is a direct crime of humanity. In particular, we need to see what is the main cause of Israel's massacre and reckless actions in Palestine. It is not enough for us to condemn and curse here, because it would be foolish for us to think that only a so-called curse would affect Israel in any way. Let's look at the world of Islam. The Islamic world is now essentially a colony of Western imperialism, its market. Even the richest Islamic states actually keep their savings in those countries and they don't break their word. Look at Saudi Arabia, who we co-operated with on Syria yesterday, who she is cooperating with and who she is now ruling over. In fact, let's really put politics aside and consider the events that have occurred, considering the mistakes we've made in events that have come to this day. When we evaluate this, it will reveal the outcome of Israel's doing so, and that it will not be threatened in any other way. As a matter of fact, friends, is it clear that the United States of America supports the PKK and its party, the PYD, who is causing trouble to Turkey? He's supportive. Is he in favor? It supports and preserves, even. So, friends, let me tell you, what does the United States do, what does it do in the Middle East? What does he say when he confuses Iraq first? There are weapons of mass destruction, he says, where more than a million Muslims are slaughtered. By whom? By the United States. Have we kept quiet? We're stuck. Is there still civil war or civil war? I do. Well, isn't the same with Syria? Syria's existence was, in fact, a great obstacle to Israel's recklessness, but what did we do? We were with the United States of America on the Middle East Project. So, in return, what was the sphere built for? It was built for Israel's safety. I still have it. Who was it built for? Sir, to prevent missiles from going to Israel from being launched from Iran. Why are you still holding the sphere? Turn it off. Why are you holding figirlik? Look, he's supporting the PYD, the whole thing, he's mixing up the Islamic world, he's bombing Syria the other day. What did he actually bomb it for? Don't think it's just, you know, a weapon of mass destruction or gas being thrown out, for what it's worth, it's really important. In fact, the United States is working for the security of Israel in the entire Middle East policy and brought a project about it, presented it to us. Is that true? Right. Well, then what should be our attitude? Second: Look at the Arab world, all in separate minds, not all of them coming together to support Palestine even within themselves, all ignoring what is happening in Gaza. Who does? That's Jordan, Egypt. Does it block all roads to Palestine? He's closing. Now tell me, which one of these is true? Then what do we do? Let's return $20 million to Israel. Also, Figs and Orbs, let's get rid of them, let's close them up. Again, let's give him the ultimatum he needs in exchange for the U.S. organization and support. Again, let the President deliver and extradite the Jewish Prize of Courage. Again, look, what we're saying is, as the PARTI, our President-General, Coral Akşener, says that as long as there is Turkey, Palestine is not alone. Today's events and events in Palestine stem from the unfortunate and unfortunate foreign policies of the Republic of Turkey in that region. So, in this framework, we are with the Palestinians, we share the pain of the martyrs, we accept that our flag has been cut in half, but we ignore one thing: what are we going to solve or what are we going to do with this massacre in Palestine? It's not enough to curse it, we have to consider it, and we have to develop policies about it. As soon as we stabilize our region, we will expel the United States and other imperialist forces from here. If we are to stand together as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, if we are to side with Palestine, let's take measures in the Islamic world to ensure that science, science, will come to the forefront, and we will settle this once and for all. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0026par0210	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Sir, the talk of Jerusalem is complete. May the Lord of Mercy be granted to those who receive His Mercy. We pray for immediate healing for the wounded. Our political parties have a statement on the matter. There is a text signed by three parties, Justice and Development Party Deputy Chair Mustafa Elitaş, Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman Free Special and Nationalist Movement Party Deputy President Erkan Akçay gentlemen; and a text prepared by Peoples' Democratic Party. I'll take turns making promises to the group presidents. Deputy Chairman of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Akçay, please come to the stand and read your statement, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0027par0219	The Turkish Parliament's declaration of the massacre of Israel against the Palestinian people: We, the three party groups of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are calling out our will to the world with this joint statement on the developments in Jerusalem. The U.S. government's decision to move the Israeli Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, despite the violent reactions of 128 countries and all countries members of the United Nations of the Islamic Co-operation Organization at the Istanbul summit, has created a major infinitive in the entire region, especially Jerusalem. On 14 May 2018, we strongly condemn and condemn the government of Israel, which brutally attacked Palestinians at the Gaza Strip on the 14th of May 2018, and immediately slaughtered 60 people, and injured more than 2,770. Although the United States and Israel ignore the United Nations decisions, defying the will of the international community and universal values, the peaceful responses of Palestinians are the most fundamental rights to the human conscience. As a common conscience of mankind, we pray for God's mercy on our fallen brothers, and for those who are wounded, and for immediate healing. When the United States moves its embassy to Jerusalem, it is to promote Israel's persecutions, massacres, and injustices, to share in plague and crime. These barbaric attacks and massacres can be carried out relentlessly in front of the world, and the shamelessness of the most fundamental values, such as humanity, morality, conscience, and justice, is also a grave aspect of these painful events. While vulnerable innocents are being killed during the day, the world will surely be marked with blood and fire in the memory of history that is effective, results-producing voices, the international institutions, including the Arab Union and the United Nations, and the countries that are historically, socially and culturally concerned with the issue of Palestine. Turkey has always and under all conditions held the right cause of the Palestinian people, and will continue to have the strongest of them all. We, the three parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, declare that our oppressed Palestinian brothers and sisters will always be there for you, that we will support justice against persecution, justice against injustice, law against injustice. Long live Palestine, long live Jerusalem. Mustafa Elitaş Özgür Erkan Akçay Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party National Movement Party Deputy Director of Group Group Deputy Chairman Group Deputy Director Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0028par0235	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Engin Özkoc, as Deputy Group Chairman of the Republican People's Party, another political party signed in the joint statement.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0029par0239	Mr. President, my fellow deputies, I present a declaration of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey concerning the massacre of Israel against the Palestinian people: We, the three party groups of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are calling out our will to the world with this joint statement on the developments in Jerusalem. The U.S. government's decision to move the Israeli Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, despite the severe reactions of 128 countries and all countries members of the United Nations of the Islamic Co-operation Organization at the Istanbul summit, has created a major infinitive in the entire region, especially Jerusalem. On 14 May 2018, we strongly condemn and condemn the government of Israel, which brutally attacked Palestinians at the Gaza Strip on the 14th of May 2018, and immediately slaughtered 60 people, and injured more than 2,770. Although the United States and Israel ignore the United Nations decisions, defying the will of the international community and universal values, the peaceful responses of Palestinians are the most fundamental rights to the human conscience. As a common conscience of mankind, we pray for God's mercy on our fallen brothers, and for those who are wounded, and for immediate healing. When the United States moves its embassy to Jerusalem, it is to promote Israel's persecutions, massacres, and injustices, to share in plague and crime. These barbaric attacks and massacres can be carried out relentlessly in front of the world, and the shamelessness of the most fundamental values, such as humanity, morality, conscience, and justice, is also a grave aspect of these painful events. While vulnerable innocents are being killed during the day, the world will surely be marked with blood and fire in the memory of history that is effective, results-producing voices, the international institutions, including the Arab Union and the United Nations, and the countries that are historically, socially and culturally concerned with the issue of Palestine. Turkey has always and under all conditions held the right cause of the Palestinian people, and will continue to have the strongest of them all. We, the three parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, declare that our oppressed Palestinian brothers and sisters will always be there for you, that we will support justice against persecution, justice against injustice, law against injustice. Long live Palestine, long live Jerusalem.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0030par0251	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. The final statement in the trilateral joint statement belongs to Justice and Development Party Deputy Director Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş Bey. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0031par0256	The Turkish National Assembly Declaration on Israel's massacre against the Palestinian people: We, the three party groups of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, shout out our will to the world with this joint statement on the developments in Jerusalem. The U.S. government's decision to move the Israeli Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, despite the violent reactions of 128 countries and all countries members of the United Nations of the Islamic Co-operation Organization at the Istanbul summit, has created a major coup in the entire region, especially Jerusalem. On May 14, 2018, we strongly condemn and condemn the government of Israel, which brutally attacked Palestinians at the Gaza Strip and immediately killed 60 people, and injured more than 2,770. Although the United States of America and Israel ignore the United Nations decisions, defying the will of the international community and universal values, the peaceful responses of the Palestinians are the most basic of them, they are the interpreters of the human conscience. As a common conscience of mankind, we pray for God's mercy on our fallen brothers, and for those who are wounded, and for immediate healing. That the United States of America carried its embassy to Jerusalem is to promote Israel's persecutions, massacres, and injustices, and to share in plague and crime. These barbaric attacks and massacres can be carried out relentlessly in front of the world, and the shamelessness of the most fundamental values, such as humanity, morality, conscience, and justice, is also a grave aspect of these painful events. While vulnerable people are being killed during the day, the fact that the world does not have effective, results-producing voices, that the Arab Union and international institutions, particularly the United Nations, do not take an open stance will surely be engraved with blood and fire in the memory of history that does not forget the stereotypes of the historical, social and cultural countries. Turkey has always and under all conditions held the right cause of the Palestinian people, and will continue to have the strongest of them all. We, the three parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, declare that our oppressed Palestinian brothers and sisters will always be there for you, that we will support justice against persecution, justice against injustice, law against injustice. Long live Palestine, long live Jerusalem, Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President I salute you with respect and respect.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0032par0274	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Sir, in the name of the People's Democratic Party, the Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu, is in Ma'am. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0033par0279	Mr. President, on the 70th anniversary of what the Palestinian people described as a great disaster, the Israeli government's attempt to move its capital from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, which was considered sacred for three heavenly religions, has led to further deepening the unresolved settlement between the Palestinian people and the Israeli government. The United States's initiative in question resulted in a terrible massacre, and in protests, 60 Palestinian citizens have been killed by Israeli law enforcement so far, and 2,700 others have been injured. Since 1948, the United Nations and regional governments have been watching as Palestinians have been made refugees on their territory and the Israeli government continues to open new settlements in violation of international law. The Palestinian cities, especially Gaza, are heavily blockaded, and Palestinians are forced to migrate from their own territory, making the peace between the peoples difficult, and it also promotes radicalism in Palestine, for the benefit of the Israeli government, and causes civilian casualties from both sides. The Israeli government has been supported by governments such as the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany, especially the regional governments, and has been supported by the Israeli governments' Zionist spreading policies. However, support for these policies does not come from these governments alone. In 2000, Turkey raised the trade volume with $1 billion in Israel to $5 billion in 2017. In 2014, where the Palestinian blockade and executions were the highest, there was nearly $6 billion in trade volumes. Turkey was the 12th senior partner in the 2014 arms and modernisation agreements with Israel, which had a major 11 per cent share in arms exports worldwide, even during the time of the 2014 Gaza blockade and the Blue Marmara massacre. Now, friends, by signing a declaration and saying, "Long live Palestine, Jerusalem." By saying, "Glory to Jerusalem," or by handing out badges, it's our honour in Jerusalem." It doesn't work out. We bring a concrete proposal, and we demand a general discussion because we say that what needs to be done here is to give Israel economics, commercial sanctions, military, economic, political agreements. You won't get anything out of it. If you want to do something concrete, here's the concrete solution: let's have a general discussion, and at the end of that, let's cancel these deals, especially the Blue Marmara. And then we say that you actually did something, and the other one would be a eunuch. Because we, as people who know the politics of imperialism in the Middle East and defend the brotherhood and equality of all the peoples around the world, including the peoples of Israel and Palestine, all the time, we say, "Come, let's do concrete work, we can't sign and forget about the Palestinians when we return to our homes tomorrow, we can't defend the rights of the Palestinians. That's why we didn't sign this statement, and I'm asking the entire General Assembly to accept our request for a general meeting. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0034par0283	Thank you. Thus, the talks on this matter, the talks on this matter, are complete. Sir, I'm going to take a break, but in the next session, Mr. Vice President, my friend Yasar Bey will be present. We're going to the election, June 24th, hopefully, the 27th term will be a blessing, life will continue, and we'll all work hard at the development of our main goal, the progress of our Turkey, a country of happy, happy people, a country of full and free people, and we'll do additions, we'll do additions. The last continent of Ahmet Pasha's veteran is as follows: If the servant errs, we make mistakes. We mean no harm. We may have made a mistake, we have to tolerate each other. Let's play nice, let's forgive each other.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0035par0290	I don't give a shit.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0034par0291	We're gonna close a good term.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0036par0292	Bring back the Regents.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit01spe0034par0293	I believe there will be a time in our political history to be written in gold letters. We've been through that. That's the second time we've been vets. We've demonstrated unity and integrity, we've passed on the spirit of unity in our genes. It must go on, I hope it continues. Of course, there may be different opinions. What's important is that they're passed on to law, morality, manners. We wish you all the best in the new era. Tomorrow is Ramadan one, forgiveness, mercy, the month of the Gurafran. And blessed be He and blessed be the Lord of the Worlds. I offer you my deepest respect, respect, and conversation. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, thank you again.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0037par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have requested their place. I read the last names of the MPs: Mr. Doğan, Mr. Akin, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Uysal, Mr. Çaysal, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Taşkın, Mr. Yaşıcı, Mr. Özdım, Mr. Atici, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Şünal, Mr. Dilipak, Mr. Özdemir and Mr. Boyraz. Mr. Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0038par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. The introduction of an access barrier to a report on the Cumhuriyet daily's website revealed how Turkey was managed. As you know, the president's current guesthouse in Marmaris Okluk Bay was destroyed and replaced by a 300-room palace. 40,000 pines and sable trees were cut down for the summer palace, which said the famous false paradise in Dubai would be similar to Palmia Island. The Marmaris, who reacted to this situation, wanted to go to the area where the tree massacre had been massacred, to make a press statement, but those who wanted to go to the area had multiple GBT applications on the road, and the bus companies carrying the protesters were fined. Even on the bus, no press releases were allowed. Now an access barrier has been placed on the Cumhuriyet daily's website. A form of governance that is banned from the rest of the media is not called democracy, where the entire media is controlled in every way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We are very tired of those who slay false heavens and true heavens for their illegal palaces, and of the mentality that makes fools of the public by banning media order that doesn't report it.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0039par0011	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. Mr. Akin? No. Mr. Lightning? No. Mr. Division...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0040par0016	Mr. President, the Minora Light Ray System Project, which began its production in 1996 and was officially inaugurated in May 2010, is not working well. Because of the rail system in the city which lends money to unborn children, a large portion of Adana Metropolitan Municipality's revenues are cut as debts, and the municipality has become unable to pay workers' salaries. In previous talks by the President and Prime Minister, several times, although they had made statements to Adana that the system that created the great burden would be transferred to the ministry, the process of the revolution had never happened, and the second phase of the rail system had been promised, but it did not begin. In many parts of Turkey, the Transport Ministry has taken over the construction and work of tram lines and projects by the Council of Ministers. Although this has been brought up many times before, there has been no healthy return and clear response from the presidency, the prime minister's office, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I ask you once again in the presence of the High Assembly, is there a study of the immediate transfer of the system to the ministry to rid the Adanas of the chaos of the rail system, the hump and the debt?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0039par0019	Thank you, Mr. Division. Mr. Soft? No. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0041par0023	Mr. President, dozens of Palestinians have been massacred in Gaza after Trump moved his embassy to Jerusalem, disregarding UN decisions. Collaborators who feed on the Palestinian problem and work with all the Palestinian enemies are responsible as well as the Zionists who did this to the Palestinian people. I'd like to ask power from here: you have the authority to govern the state. Before holding large rallies about this, why do you refrain from applying concrete sanctions that would literally force Israel to do so? Why can't you ever think about cutting military and commercial ties at a record level? Because we know that you don't normally have a problem with Palestine, which means something as long as Palestine brings in votes. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0042par0026	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. Mr. Gaytancioğlu? No. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0043par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Jerusalem is our red line. Yesterday in Gaza, I strongly condemn the massacre of our Palestinian brothers and sisters by the occupied and terrorist state of Israel, before the eyes of the world. I curse the terrorist and occupying state Israel, which in a completely provocative way has killed our Palestinian brothers, who wanted to protest the decision of the United Nations to move the Tel Aviv Embassy to Jerusalem by violating international law and all UN decisions. Israel will surely pay for these massacres, and one day he will surely drown in the blood of innocent people. On this occasion, I pray for God's mercy to our Palestinian martyr brothers and to our wounded brothers and sisters with urgent healing. As of yesterday, the Turkish nation declares that we are with our Palestinian brothers, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0044par0033	Thank you, Mr. Excessive. Dear Maker...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0045par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. In front of the world, a people are being murdered quietly. Silence in the face of slaughter is frightening as a massacre. Political Islamist rulings using the Palestinian case in domestic politics are silent, and the loud are hypocrites. The rulings have come out of imperialism, near all political Islamist movements, never being a real anti-emperist. Now they set Iran, Syria, and the imperialist United States, and their collaborators, are bound around the slaughtering Israel. This reckoning is also at the root of this recklessness of the United States of America. Let no man deceive himself or us; those who claim to be with the people of Palestine long before Trump have accepted that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. Turkey's left movements are always exposed in the Palestinian case. From the seas to today, the Palestinian people's only true friends are leftists, socialists, revolutionaries. Down with Israel! Down with imperialism! Long live the honorable resistance of the Palestinian people!
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0044par0039	Thank you, Your Creator. Mr. White Star? No. Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0046par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I ask my question, I want to start American imperialism, the glorious resistance of the Palestinian people! I'm going to ask you, Mr. Minister of Labor and Social Security: Do you consider a pardon for our citizens who were taxpayers before 2008 and were not registered in the BUG-KUR? Thousands of our citizens are victims in this situation. They're looking for a BUG-KUR recording pardon on this. Another question, Mr. Prime Minister: Thousands of our citizens, who have been victims of the seizure of the TMSF, have been waiting for years for a solution. Do you have any initiative in this matter? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0047par0048	Thank you, Your Highness. Dear Yým...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0048par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. We condemn Israel's massacre in Gaza yesterday with hatred. I'm saying, of course, there's going to be a reckoning. We certainly stress it over and over again and condemn Israel from here. Mr. President, on behalf of millions of people with military problems today, Ferhat Doğan and Halil İbrahim Shield citizens visited us. I'm speaking to my fellow soldiers who have a military problem: when we're in power on June 24th, we're going to solve all of your problems. On the other hand, we will solve all problems when we reach power on June 24th. I'm saying that we're going to bring the pensions of all pensioners who are paid under 1,600 TL, even if they're supported in some way to 1,600. I offer you my respect and love.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0049par0056	Thank you, Mr. Yum. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0050par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. For two days, the United States and Israeli governments have inflicted persecution and violence on the Palestinian people. The number of those who died was more than 2,700. Since the United States and Israel do not see enough reaction from the world, they are able to carry on with their policies. Does everyone now realize that saying "O America" or "x" is just an internal policy material? Now I ask: Is anyone ashamed to receive $20 million from Israel because of the blue Marmara? Are those who trade hard with Israel ashamed, and those who increase trade fivefold? Are they ashamed of the ambassador of Israel, or of those who did not withdraw the consul general? Are those who still hold the ambassador and consul of Israel ashamed? It's not enough to just curse it, it's hypocritical to refer it to God alone. Act in a manner that suits our government and abandon hypocritical policies.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0049par0062	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0051par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, Izmir Ataturk High School is a hundred and thirty years of high school and a high school that has raised many writers and four ministers so far. The other day at İzmir Ataturk High School, the students held a graduation ceremony and sang after the ceremony the Izmir March. The principal said: "This is political, don't use slogans." When the students kept singing the anthem, the principal took a nap and started playing pop music. So the high school students began to shout, "We are the soldiers of Mustafa Kemal. " For once, I condemn the manager. I'm asking the Minister of National Education, will you remove this director? I kiss the eyes of the students. In the week of May 19th, they really came as a heart that absorbed Ataturk's Hitabesi into Youth and protected the republic. However, I am once again condemned by the Ministry of National Education, rather than by merit.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0052par0069	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0053par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. We will never forget the 14th of May, 2018, which is a bloody Monday. We support the Palestinians' 70-year struggle for independence. Violence and slaughter against this honorable struggle will be a disgrace to human history. Instead of accepting a two-state solution accepted by the international public, it would be the honorable struggle of the Palestinians, who created chaos through Jerusalem, the sacred one of the heavenly religions, and showed that they were not satisfied with blood in the Middle East.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0052par0075	Thank you, Mr. Kayishoglu. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0054par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Jerusalem is the red line of Muslims. East Jerusalem is the capital of Palestine. Jerusalem is the common cause of all Muslims, not just Palestinians. Despite the UN's decision, the U.S. conveys its embassy to Jerusalem and recognizes it as the capital of Israel is clearly a provocation to ignore Palestine and the Palestinian state. By this decision, the U.S. ruled that the killer, who slaughtered civilians, was in the presence of the Israeli government, in the presence of a brutal crime of humanity. Once again, I strongly condemn this decision by the United States of America. I express my presence with our Palestinian brothers. The innocent, defenseless Palestinians who protest the U.S. decision and entertainment to save their occupied lands to make their voices known are martyred, wounded, without blinking an Israeli soldier. It's a vile slaughter, a crime of humanity, and I strongly condemn it. I pray for God's mercy to our Palestinian martyr brothers, and I pray for immediate healing for the wounded. Down with Israel! Down with America!
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0055par0081	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mr. Ilican...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0056par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. After the decision of the United States to open the Embassy of Israel in Jerusalem, our Palestinian brothers went out into the street. We support their righteous struggle. In exchange for the protests, the killer Israeli soldiers used real bullets to massacre them. 60 Palestinian Muslim brothers lost their lives, more than 2,000 of our brothers were injured. Our government and party, especially our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have fully established our position against this stance by our Parliament, Israel. And I would like to say from here that those who advocate so-called peace, democracy, human rights remain silent to the scream in Palestine. This double standard and massacre will surely take its place on the pages of history. I'm curious to know how the pro-democracyist, the pro-civilist, the Western, will explain the situation to future generations. As our president stated on every platform, the world is greater than five ▪ and eventually justice will be done. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If every generation has a pharaoh, it has a Musa (Moses). I condemn the attitude of the United States of America and the massacre of the murderous Zionist regime against our Muslim brothers with hatred. Long live the resistance of the Palestinian people. Today, I wish you the best of luck to Erzurumspor, who will have an important match with Umraniye Sports, on the way to the Super League.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0057par0091	We wish both teams the best, Mr. Ilican. Thank you. Mr. Dilipak? No. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0058par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Israel has committed a public and brutal crime against humanity in Gaza. Israel has driven blindly on the dark and bloody route of the United States, killing nearly 3,000 Palestinians, murdering even eight-month-old babies, killing 60-year-old Palestinians in Gaza. Israel has proven to be a murderer, a bandit and a terrorist state with all evidence. I invite the entire world's humanity, the European Union and the Islamic world to curse this event. Mankind must teach Israel and the United States a lesson from this incident. Everyone around the world says Israel and the United States should boycott their goods, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0059par0099	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0060par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, we visited the Palestinian Ankara Embassy with a delegation headed by our Group Vice President, Mr. Free Special. On our visit, Mr. President, we have expressed solidarity with the Palestinian people of the entire Republican People's Party family, especially to the Palestinian state. We condemn yesterday's massacre once again and feel the great pain of the Palestinian people in our hearts. In a concrete response to all of this, we're going to convey to the General Assembly a law proposal that will include the unilateral elimination of an agreement between Israel and Turkey that was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after the incident of the Blue Marmara. Our proposal for this deal that we oppose and the government supports calls for a positive approach by power when it comes to the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0061par0105	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Boyraz? No. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0062par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Jerusalem is the first of Muslims' qiblahs, a sacred place of Islam and two major religions that contain the mosque of Aksa. We have over 60 thousand martyrs, nearly 3,000 wounded. A 70-year-old resistance to a 70-year-old occupation is today the main subject of the entire world. Today, those who live in mind want to create new chaos among the religions, not knowing that the hearts of Muslims are beating in Jerusalem. This nation, destined for resurrection and resurrection, will never leave Jerusalem alone until the last drop of its blood. All Muslims will stand side by side in the trial of the Palestinian people. Under the leadership of our President and leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we will claim the common heritage of humanity to the end. Moreover, I call upon God to bless our land and all the world of Islam, which shall begin this day with the first prayer of the terawih, and I salute the Covenant of the Veterans.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0063par0112	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0064par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. After the route of Mirach, holy Jerusalem and Kaaba, the second temple for God's service on the earth cries out for the blood of the al-Masjid-i-Aqsa. We're in mourning as Muslims. The nation cries along with Jerusalem, al-Masjid al-Aqsa and Palestine. The United States continues its challenge. Yesterday was the anniversary of Nekbe. The U.S. did it again as it entered the Ramadan, blood flowed through its provocation. The hand of America and Israel is covered with the blood of Muslims again. 150 countries from more than 200 have no support for what the United States and Israel have done. This is a referendum, and the United States and Israel have lost this referendum. But there's no margin for muslim mess. If all the people who called themselves Muslims looked at themselves from the eyes of Islam / would they be prisoners of the Masjid-i Aksa? Sooner or later, truth will triumph over falsehood and Jerusalem will be free. I also honor the late Mahzuni Sharif, my fellowman, who told me what a murderer America is.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0065par0119	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Mr. Gaytancioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0066par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Two days ago, the Agricultural Minister of the Justice and Development Party announced the so-called wheat prices. There is a 12 per cent increase in wheat prices, which is said to be parallel to the inflation rate, which is on the inflation rate. Now, look, last year, Turkey imported 5 million tons of wheat and paid 1.5 billion dollars for it. You're still not thinking about the wheat producer, you're trying to condemn the wheat producer to low prices. We've never forgotten what you did last year, that on the third day of the Festival of Sacrifice, you reset customs duties and made Turkey a traditional wheat paradise. Now you're not thinking about the manufacturer again; you want the farmer to leave agriculture at low prices, at high price of diesel, at high fertilizer prices, at high fertilizer prices, and leave the villages, and move their fields into other people's hands. That's the truth of it.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0067par0125	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Mr. Wellercuoğlu, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0068par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. The MlGEM, a regulatory and controlling institution in the mining sector, is responsible for mining accidents such as Soma, Ermenek, Elbistan, and is trying to evacuate the institution by sending older staff out of the institution, and instead manages the task of passing temporary personnel from contract personnel and other institutions. With this application, what kind of public interest is it expected that personnel in different departments of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources are sent to institutions operating outside their expertise without any grounds against their will? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0069par0131	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. The last word is for Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0070par0135	Thank you. Dear President, dear MPs, I salute you. Dear President, I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture, through you: Sannlıurfa is being irrigated from Harran County and the Plains of Harran, the Ataturk Dam, and our farmers here don't have any debts, they've paid off all debts. Even Mr. Faruk Çelik is here in the hall, at least a member of the district. Why was the agricultural benefit for villages without electricity, without water wells, without electricity, without debt to the irrigation troops on the Plains of Harran? What is the sin of this farmer in the Plains of Harran, Mr. President? Although there are no agricultural debts, their support is blocked, their support is not paid, and in some places they are paid late. Our farming citizens in the Plains of Harran are victims. I demand that this block be removed immediately. My respects.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0071par0139	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to meet the demands of our vice presidents. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0072par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Parliamentary elections were held for the 5th time in Iraq on Saturday (May 12th). The Turkishmen have shown a high turnout in democratic maturity, but the public has reported that serious irregularities and votes have been stolen in elections in Erbil, Süleymaniye and Mosul, especially Kerkuk, with the Turkish population dense. Turkmen have been protesting for four days in pursuit of their votes and rights. Tens of thousands pursue their will during the protests in Kerkuk. As a summation of the developments, I'd like to bring to your attention the words of Aydın Maruf, a member of the Iraqi Turkmen Front: We have 120,000 voters in Kirkukuk. 5,000 of our voters went to the polls at the Golden Bridge, but we didn't even get 100 votes there. The neighborhoods, which are almost all Turkishmen in Kerkuk, are experiencing impossible developments, such as the Barzani party's coming out in the 1st place. Months ago, Kerkuk was asked to be invaded by an illegitimate referendum initiative. With today's election tricks, the referendum attempt is a product of the same thought. We're monitoring the progress in the area. May 15th is also a reminder of one of the major steps made by the Turkish nation on its path to independence and salvation. On May 15, 1919, journalist Hasan Tahsin fired the first bullet in the face of the Greek occupation in İzmir. In those days when the Turkish nation wanted to drown in its own homeland, not only in Izmir, but in all parts of the country, the first bullets became the beacons of the Salvation War, as well as the national will.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0073par0147	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0072par0148	On December 19, 1918, Sergeant Kara Mehmet of Hatay Fourways, Hasan Tahsin of İzmir on May 15, 1919, Ali Cetinkaya of Ayvalık, and his soldiers on May 29, 1919, were valiantly on the fire of Kuvaimillicillian Payers on June 1, 1919, leading the holy journey to independence. On the anniversary of his martyrdom, we remember with mercy and gratitude the saints of our struggle for salvation, especially Hasan Tahsin, the first bullet.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0073par0149	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0074par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Kurdish-Single Day. The Hawar magazine, which began its broadcast life on May 15, 1932, is now celebrated as Kurdish Language Day for its contribution to the development of Kurdish language. In a time when the government has shut down Kurdish-language daycare centres, where it has appointed trustees to the municipalities and has shut down Kurdish-language education, and has published Kurdish-language newspapers, magazines, TV channels, websites, women's institutions and Kurdish Institute, it is of extraordinary importance to have and do what it has to do. Once again, we emphasise that we do not accept Kurdish pressure and elimination during this period of power, when Kurdish public use has been wiped out, the statues of important people who are working on Kurdish language and literature have been destroyed, whose names have been removed from the parks, and we promise to continue our fight in a stronger way. Opening the way for public use of Kurdish language, the protection and development of Kurdish literature and culture, not only for Kurdish people, but also for the preservation and development of multiculturalism in Turkey. On this occasion, I'd like to say, "Happy Kurd-ling Day." [[Applause from HDP rows]] On May 13th, Mr. President, Soma was the anniversary of the mine disaster, and I was in Soma. Soma, again the Department of Energy, the Department of Energy, which did not monitor the Januarys of Soma, where the actual work health and safety measures were ignored, had not forgotten that the power that gave subcontractorial redevans and public assets to companies was responsible for this disaster.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0075par0157	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0074par0158	Of course, the kicking undersecretary Yusuf Yerkeli and his candidacy were not forgotten by the people of Soma. The Business Murders Almanac, published annually by the Justice Seeker Support Group, also came out, and according to this Almanac 2017, at least 1,947 workers were killed while working, as many of them were children. There's another reality in Soma, and I'd like to point out that the workers in the mines that were stopped were paid six months in double salary to suppress the influx after the Soma massacre. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish it.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0076par0163	Please complete your statement, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0074par0165	Aids to the murdered mining families were delivered to families via AFAD; their monthly deaths and pensions were tied up. But when that infinal was taken away, in the 6th month of the massacre 2,831 miners began to be disciplined with hunger at the door. So, some of these mine workers found us and they told us about these pressures. They have stated that pressure has begun to re-enter the AKP (AKP) and that their compensations have been paid elsewhere, that they will be employed elsewhere, but their compensations have been paid in a small amount -- even though they had previously agreed with Soma AŞ -- even though the union had agreed with them -- since then only two holidays before and finally a week before the referendum. I'd like to inform you... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing up. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0076par0168	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0074par0169	I mean, because it's a very important complaint, and because it's a reality, it's like, you know, everybody thinks these people got their compensations, soma. There are others who have found jobs in other mines, and they, unfortunately, have started their lives as miners again. We would like to present to the public what TMSF will receive immediately by selling the property of Soma Ash, which TMSF has seized to pay the compensations. Finally, today is World Conscientious Retribution Day. Conscientation is a right based on freedom of religion and conscience, and under international agreements all entity states are bound. We also demand that the denial of conscience be recognized as a right and that the arrangements be made. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0077par0173	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Ozkoch, come in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0078par0176	Mr. President, my fellow MPs, as Republican People's Party, we have visited the Palestinian Embassy together with our friends today, expressed once again that we, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are on the side of the oppressed Palestinian people. For us, Palestine is a matter of conscience beyond political parties, right, left, nationality, sect. In Jerusalem today, our Palestinian brothers and sisters are being massacred, fighting for their children's tomorrow, because they claim their homeland, because they want an honorable life. Even in these moments, we have Palestinian brothers and sisters who have been injured. Our people, who have no basis but their bodies, are subject to Israel's tank, his rifle, and they are not allowed to be heard. It has to be us. There's a historical responsibility for the House, for all of us. We must put aside all distinctions and take care of our brothers, the oppressed Palestinian people. We are ready to support the government, but we also have expectations from the government: 1) The Islamic Co-operation Agency has been called to a meeting. There must be a joint decision on the Palestinian case, not on the paper, but on the application. 2) Our Israeli Ambassador must withdraw immediately. 3) Our consul must be brought to the level of Palestinian ambassador immediately and this appointment must be announced to the world. 4) As Turkey, we must rescind the agreement on $20m, not even compensation for the lives of Israeli citizens who lost their lives in the Blue Marmara.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0079par0184	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0078par0185	We've submitted the bill to our House on this. Let us show strength, and let us stand with honor behind our slain brothers. Let's call it a vote. Let us take a national stand, not in return for the word. Long live the righteous struggle of Turkey, the brotherhood of the Palestinian people.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0080par0188	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Bostanci, come in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0081par0191	Mr. President, thank you. As the AK PARTY Group, we support the righteous resistance, the actions of the Palestinian people, the Palestinian cause. Yesterday and from the past, we strongly condemn Israel's rule, which has had violent and cruel policies against Palestinians so far. There were dramatic events yesterday; 60 people lost their lives, 2,770 were injured, and these protests continue. Many incidents in the region, the source of the unrest in the Middle East, are the Palestinian cause and undoubtedly the issue of the status of Jerusalem. The radical line that began at the end of the 19th century with Theodor Herzl is today playing a major role in the blood and fire of Middle Eastern geography. We know that when we follow that historical continuity, as there are people who support that radical line, there are Jews who object to it, and there are a very powerful world of public opinion who object to it. There is also a very powerful American public opinion that knows the role of this American administration in the internal political balances, as is behind today's Israeli administration's pamperment. As the American Embassy opened yesterday, the smiles that were displayed there will not be erased from the memory of the world's public, and I'm sure they'll know who to see as a result.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0082par0195	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0081par0196	If anyone wants peace in Middle Eastern geography, the Jews, Arabs, Muslims, Christians, if they want peace, the aggression of the state of Israel must be placed in a place that has rejected this radical line since Herzl, and no doubt confirms mutual wills. The United Nations has highlighted many times that Jerusalem is the common sanctuary of three heavenly religions. Once again, it needs to be drawn and done. The Republic of Turkey has played very important roles in this line so far, and will no doubt continue to support this righteous trial of the Palestinian people on the basis of humanity. Mr. President, the month of Ramazan is starting. Congratulations on the Ramadan of all our people and the Islamic world.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0082par0199	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0081par0200	Hopefully, this Ramadan is not just a sense of partnership in people's meetings, but also a sense of partnership in the suffering and atrocities of the Islamic world, thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0082par0201	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly According to Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey of Turkey No. 28/3/1990, the membership of Van MP Mithat Sancar is presented to the General Assembly of the Council of Peoples' Democratic Party, which has been reported under the 12th Article of the Merkur Law, which is deemed appropriate in the examination of the Council of Ministers. It has been presented to your knowledge. There is another thesis of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which I will make read and vote for: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Europe will hold a meeting of Energy Commission Presidents in Sofia, Bulgaria, on May 13th and May 14th, 2018. The issue of accession to this meeting is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 15/5/2018 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On 15 May 2018, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu (number 7632) proposed that the general meeting motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly on the deaths and injuries of 59 people in the attempt by the Israeli government to declare Jerusalem a unilateral capital was held in front of the other motions on Tuesday (May 15/5/2018). The first statement to explain the motive of the proposal belongs to Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, our Kars MP on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group with proposals. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0083par0241	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, of course, this problem will be talked about more, lots of polemics, lots of debates, because no problem will be solved by itself unless there is a will to solve the problem. Yesterday they attacked Gaza, 60 dead, thousands wounded; just now it has fallen to the Turkish press, the same intervention in the West Bank today. There are numbers in the press that say one person has died, 17 injured. So if you don't see the problem as a gift to Trump's son-in-law, if you focus on the alliance relations behind it, its international response, its reflection in American domestic politics, you see one concrete thing, and that's the lobby that shapes and shapes Israeli politics in the United States of America. Who do politicians from Turkey visit first when they go to America? They visit these lobbies. In exchange for helping these lobbyists with what problems is money transferred from the Turkish budget? The public doesn't know that. There are other unknowns. For example, as Turkey faces the coups, when discussing the coups, without a doubt, from July 15th to May 27th, there is a symbol name: For example, eight months in Palestine, together with the Palestinians, why was it executed in the Sea Gezmi Turkey, which supported direct Palestinian resistance? Does Turkey's politics have the courage, the intent to face the connection between 1971 and the execution of Deniz Gezmiş? Is it the price of his struggle in Palestine, that he should be executed in Turkey? All these confrontations only allow us to stand in a stable, strong, stable place in the Palestinian problem. Dear friends, what you say in politics, what you do in politics, if it's not enough to solve problems, is to focus on what you don't say, what you don't do when you're supposed to. Because your current words, your current actions, are not enough to solve the problem. If we're only condemning Israel's involvement in Turkey's domestic politics because we're concerned, we're very clear, we'll be in all kinds of solidarity that won't give us the opportunity. And you can be sure that the society of Turkey stands by those who rule the country with all its religious, socialists, Alevis, nationalists, all of its sensibilities, but only if they see a strong, decisive attitude. Unfortunately, the society in Turkey is being manipulated about Israel. Either Hitler's admiration, anti-Semitic rhetoric, exacerbates an extreme edge, or behind closed doors, secret oil deals, other relationships are being achieved through trade. We're dealing with a very clear, very clear picture here. If the Palestinian issue is not viewed as a bargaining factor on diplomatic grounds, but if we want to develop a strong will to address the problem, if Turkey's Parliament wants to do so, if political parties have a clear preference in this direction, a clear determination, on any kind of political polarity, a real national interest, even above national, as the future of Middle East, and build a joint, strong, deterrent, effective policy. If Turkey's society is a follower of such an approach, if it will stand behind it, if it has the courage to pay the price, then all responsibility is above politics. Politicians can't just complain, they can't just reproach, they can't just react, the politician has to come up with a solution. We say it with full awareness of the sensitivity and difficulty of the problem. If you take one step towards solving this problem, we're going to take three steps, and we're sure that every segment in Turkey will stand behind every step you take. But if you continue secret relations on one side, as the Gulf countries have done, by giving zakat to structures that have supposedly developed anti-Israel rhetorics, by donating them, by carrying the balance policy that sustains them to Turkey, the plague of that can't be moved by any party. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0084par0248	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan belongs to our MP, Ozturk Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0085par0253	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I salute the High Council. I'd like to talk to you about a few things. One: Palestine, at this rate, will be completely occupied by Israeli settlers. Right now, there are residential plans every two or three months. You can already see when you go to Palestine, Palestinians can't buy cement, they can't build anchors, they can't build dwellings, but Israel builds a thousand, 2,000, and 3,000 houses, and it goes on and on and on. The second issue is: Palestine's infrastructure has to be completely restructured because if it does, there will be an economic collapse in Palestine, and the economy will already be on the ground, and it will sink. Third, security. Unfortunately, security is worse than ever. We also want to point out that Palestine is unable to provide its own security forces with full meaning due to the Israeli blockade. Israel intervenes in everything, intervenes in everything, invades everywhere, and at some point the settlement continues like a dagger stuck in the bosom of Palestine. Now, these decisions are not for nothing, the international community is silent. Don't look, you've been blocked by three countries, unable to make a decision, unable to get a collective condemnation decision. On the other hand, some circles in the United Nations have forgotten that there's America around the corner and it's going to veto. The international community was never able to take America and its partner, Israel, and bring into action an original Middle East plan. So, what's to be done? First of all, the Islamic world needs to analyze its situation; it needs a strategy to defeat this ignorance; it's divided, it's torn, it's torn and it's intertwined, it has to find a way out, but we see that individual ambitions, intrigues, standing close to the United States, Sunni-Sii distinctions, ethnic conflicts, unfortunately, have divided this geography in a way that we don't want to remove from geography. Let us say that this decision of the United States of America is irreversible. Look, we need to know what we should do. The United States has made this decision, and it will not return, and Palestine will not have a weak hand. Unfortunately, the attitudes of states close to Iran in the Middle East will not be a facilitating factor for opening this lockdown. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do I have a minute of your time or do you want me to finish it?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0086par0262	Do we say it's time or do we say it's time, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0087par0263	Okay, okay.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0088par0264	Give it to me, Mr. President. It's Palestine. Give it to me.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0089par0265	Just a minute, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0090par0266	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0091par0267	You said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0092par0268	Go, go, go.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0093par0269	Thank you. We need to know that as of today, there are two or three issues. One was the withdrawal of the United States from Iran's nuclear programme; two was the carrying of its embassy. In fact, it's an act of aggression; it's a sign to catch the other side unprepared, to disrupt his game plan, and to divert attention in the Middle East. In this regard, unfortunately, the government has no strategy. Look, we have a suggestion: let's think together, and let's figure out what to do together. You invite us, and we'll do whatever we can. As long as this empire of the Middle East, this invader, this corrupt and divisive ambition, does not exist and this geography does not surrender to them. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0094par0274	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, it belongs to Mr. Naci Bostancı, our Amassian MP. Here you go, Mr. Botanci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0095par0279	Mr. President, dear friends, a meeting has been held on the basis of this group's proposal, within the 59/2. That was the proper procedure. So we don't want to go back to that, and we don't want to give any approval in favor of the HDP group proposal, we're against it, but we know that the property is very important, and it's going to continue to be debated. It's seen by everyone: dirty policies are being introduced in Middle Eastern geography. We know about his allies. But we don't want to equate them with homogeneous, horizontal comradeship; the policies of the Obama era were different; now we know that Trump has different approaches in a different place, in Israel, and there are different publicities, the situation of the Gulf countries is clear, but let's not forget that these dirty policies will not continue there forever, he won't be able to continue there. Yesterday's violence is a painting of shame, and there are values on the earth called humanity, morality, conscience, and if humanity puts all this historical acquish in places, it will not consent. Organising this and turning it into politics must undoubtedly be carried out within the Islamic world and in a joint way, within the politics of the mind. I'll tell you this: when yesterday's events took place, while Israel's violent policies continued, you know there was a Nazi era in Germany. The Nazis, with brutal methods, carried out a massacre policy on the Jews there and slaughtered about 6 million innocents. During all these massacres, why did the Germans remain silent? The question was asked, and Karl Jaspers said at a conference in 1949 that the German silence was primarily referring to four fundamental crimes. One is a political crime, Nazis. It's a legal crime, criminals. It's a moral crime, the ones who keep quiet while those innocents are being taken away. It's a metaphysical crime, undoubtedly identical to the victims. Now the same is the case for the Naziized state of Israel, for its policies. Those who don't say a word to the Nazis yesterday deserve all kinds of guilt, like the Germans who didn't say a word to them. I believe that in Israel, and in all Middle Eastern geography, and even in all people outside the elite staff of those dirty policies, there are no doubt those who look to the issue in the same way in America. Basically, that's what's behind our hope for humanity. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0096par0285	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0097par0287	You have to admit, Palestine...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0098par0288	Yes, it seems to have been accepted.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0096par0289	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0099par0290	All those in favor, more.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0100par0291	No, he wouldn't refuse a motion against Palestine, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0101par0292	We explained our motive.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0102par0293	The proposal was not accepted. Mr. Benli, you're in the system, sir. May I have your request?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0103par0295	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak for a minute. It's a little late. I've been in the system before, and I think it's been erased, so I'm back in.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0102par0296	Here you go, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0103par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Jerusalem is the heart of all of us, and yesterday the dagger of all mankind has struck again. When the American traitor opened his embassy after a celebration of his unlawful plan, which lasted until morning, Israel did not hesitate to use real bullets against the demonstrators and slaughtered dozens of Palestinians. In fact, not only does Israel have the blood of these innocents today, not just the Trump or the American government, but not just the countries like El Salvador, Congo, who attended the opening of the embassy. But it must not be forgotten that Jerusalem will always remain the capital of Palestine because we know that the dawn will rise from the moment the darkness is at its lowest. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0104par0302	Thank you, Mr. Benli. Mr. Irgil, you have a voice request as well. Here, let me get your request first, what is it?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0105par0305	Mr. President, I asked for a quote from 60.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0104par0306	Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0105par0308	I looked, you don't see it, so now I've been waiting patiently. Mr. President, I wasn't going to take any words, but we have a special occasion today. On Sunday (May 13th), the attempt to prevent young graduates from singing the lzmir anthem at the end of the 130th annual graduation ceremony at Izmir Ataturk High School, which I am proud of being a graduate of, has caused young and parents to react. The idea of İzmir Ataturk High School is free, free of conscience, free of knowledge, free of education, and everyone who has graduated from our school, which bears the name of the founder of our republic, Ataturk, is a natural virtue of the revolutions of Ataturk, and will fight to bring this country to the level of peaceful civilization. We'd like to think of it as an isolated event, but as we've been having a hard time remembering the events that have happened in our school lately, and on behalf of the Izmir Ataturk High Alumni Association, enough is enough. And we demand that this school principal be removed immediately and that the investigation and the punishment be carried out against him. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0106par0313	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. Mr. Ünal, you have a request. Mr. Ünal... Mr. Ilıcalı, your request?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0107par0316	I have a request. The council is very interested in sports, and I'm going to share a joy.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0106par0317	Here you are, Mr. Ilıcalı.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0107par0319	Thank you very much, my dear President. We couldn't go today because of the parliamentary agenda, Erzurumspor won a major success; in the first game he lost 4-3 to the Umraniye (Umraniye) -- the game was just finished, we watched backstage -- 2-1 beat him to the Super League final. I thank our club, her teacher, her fan, our president, our Assembly, everyone, and I invite you all to the final match on Saturday. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0108par0322	Well, congratulations, Mr. Erzurumspor of Ilican. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have you read and vote on. At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 15/5/2018 on Tuesday (now), the following proposals have been approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Erkan Akçay Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Parliamentary Research Commission Reports 554, 555, 558 and 559, which were distributed in the joint session of the General Assembly on Tuesday (May 15th 2018) on Tuesday (now), have been suggested that the agenda be taken to the top of the "Replacement on the Special Agement" section and that general talks on the reports be held in the same combination, and that the talks on behalf of the government and groups will continue in ten minutes, until the meeting of the Parliament's research commission reports on the special agenda is completed. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1869) I respectfully submit that my main Law Offer (2/1869) should be taken directly into the General Assembly agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Our Van MP, who has an offer on the motion, will speak to Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0109par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I've made a commitment to last year's law proposal for the immediate protection of Lake Van and its geography. Yes, as a Vanian and as a member of parliament, I would like to make a call to Lake Van, hoping that while I and all lawmakers vote, they will remember that this matter is not only about Van. It is about the ecosystem of all Turkey at the same time. Members of parliament, in the 26th Legislature, we have repeatedly tried to address the most important problems of the Van. And we have repeatedly expressed that there is irrefutable and unrestrained pollution in Lake Van. The pollution rate, which reaches 40 per cent, is rapidly consuming the life of Lake Van, with an unstable and disproportionate population growth, irregular construction, inadequate sewage service, and erosion, as well as 600,000 years of history. This is a life that is dying by the eyes, on the agenda of all the people of Van, on our agenda, and on the agenda of our municipalities, elected by the will and votes of the people. Dear Bekir Kaya was on the agenda of our Van Metropolitan Mayor. Now, if he hadn't been arrested unfairly and unlawfully, he'd still be working on it. Congressmans, speaking of which, we're not going to be able to get through without talking about something. In the past few days, the trustee, who is currently appointed trustee to the municipality of Van -- I mean, not to give up his rights -- is actually working with a much greater sacrifice than the president of the AKP, and the other day, police chiefs and commanders had come to him to ask the public for votes -- and he also said, "We are very environmentally sensitive to the tree, as we were seeking to vote for AKP," he says, as if the previous municipality himself had been elected by the people's votes. So this tree, which he describes as flowers, insects, is actually the ecosystem, which means itself -- what happened, what did he do? He asks. Now, that's a tragic thing for a city governor to do. Either they remember they're governors soon or they resign, really set up a crate and race. And you must first nominate him for his efforts. Congressmans, since our president is a prisoner, I'd like to ask the governor of the AKP: Mr Murat Zoraoğlu, who occupied the Van Metropolitan Municipality office, which projects you call your own? Can you explain that? Wasn't the treatment plant a project for the DBP municipality? Wasn't Bekir Kaya a signature under all the projects that were designed to free him from pollution? Didn't the government approve those who didn't approve and budget these projects? Yeah, we're environmentalists, but we don't disrespect ecosystems, living life by calling them flowers and insects like you. We respect our natural life and strive to establish conditions for living together. In this regard, Lake Van is vital to the Vans, and we are aware of that. Congressmans, every minute we lose now, believe me, Van Lake brings it closer to the brink of natural disaster. In terms of health, the number of colics, which should be 700 millimetres per 100 millimeters, has reached 2,300° on the lake banks. If pollution cannot be prevented and cannot be prevented, experts say the ecological balance has rapidly deteriorated, and Lake Van has a life span of 25 years. This makes it clear that there is no time to lose by making excuses at the point of emergency measures that need to be taken. Of course, the biggest responsibility for the steps falls to public institutions because all public institutions, particularly the Department of Highways, prevent public access to the sea, occupy the coast of Lake Van and even slaughter it. However, as stated in the Coastal Law, the coast is open for all to benefit from equality and freedom, and no structure can be built here. There are no barriers such as walls, fences, fences, fences, moats, stakes, and so on, but all of them are present around Lake Van. In our proposal for the law, we have prepared the entire ecosystem, Lake Van, geography, and the basin for protective measures and a very active action plan. I'd like to say again that I hope you'll support our offer. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit02spe0110par0365	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. Congressmans, I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0110par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We begin talks on the Parliamentary Research Commission report, which was established in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter of the Constitution, on the study of the diagnostic process, the reasons, the consequences, and the measures needed to be taken by the people exposed to this disease. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 554 rows. Now I'm going to read the statement requests on the celiac research commission report. On behalf of the groups, Mr. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, MP for the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcu, MP for the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Aytuğ Atcı, Kayseri MP for the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. İsmail Tamer. The first word now belongs to Mr. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, our Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0111par0016	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party in general talks on the report on the Democratic Commission for Disease Research. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to say that the Turkish nation is with its brothers, as our leader and chairman, Mr. State Gardeny, has expressed. Jerusalem, the twin brother of Istanbul, is the honor of our first qiblah. We, the National Movement Party, condemn Israeli brutality with hatred. I would also like to point out that both in Kerkuk and Cyprus, we will be followers to the end of the Turkish peoples. First of all, I'd like to express my deepest respect and thanks to our leader and leader, Mr. State Gardeny, and to my group, the National Movement Party, for bringing forth the idea of this Commission being established and starting such a good business. I'm having one of the proudest moments I've ever been under the roof of this grand coven in June 2015. I'd like to thank all members of the Desertic Assembly Research Commission, who are suffering from the troubles of celiac patients and who are conducting studies to make life easier for the sick and close to them, and who I am very happy to be a member of. When we look back, I believe we've completed a commission study that we can remember with a spiritual sense of satisfaction. We've actually completed a difficult process. We've received hundreds of congratulations and thanks from the moment our motion as the National Movement Party has been adopted by lawmakers from all the groups sitting at this time. In fact, I think the work we've done in order to show what the Turkish nation can accomplish in terms of unity and unity has been a note in history. Respected lawmakers, respected citizens; our primary goal as the Commission for the Assembly Research of the celiac disease is to create awareness of the celiac disease, to investigate the causes and consequences of the disease in detail, to ensure that all relevant measures are taken from the diagnostic stage to the treatment stage, and ultimately, to create a consensus on the solution to these issues and providing permanent assistance to patients exposed to this disease. After all, the Commission has started working with good intentions and good hopes. In all our talks with experts, consultants, trade unions, private sector interests, trade organisations, researchers and university officials, we sought to find an answer to the question, "How do we treat our wounds by listening to the celiac associations and bedouin patients who join us?" Other than that, we went to the provinces of Şanlıurfa, Bursa, Kayseri, and visited the celiac associations, members, patients, and families in person. State bodies, such as the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Ministry of Health, Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the Ministry of Customs and Commerce, almost mobilised during the work, they deserve to be thanked, and that's what it takes to be a great state. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the honorable citizens, let's briefly remember what celiac disease is. A genetic disease, the celiac, is a disease that is deeply affected by traditional Turkish-type feeding habits. Bread, wafers, pasta, and even chocolate can cause serious problems in celiac patients that our non-infected citizens can consume. With a few changes in our consultations, we've come to the conclusion that we can facilitate the lives of our citizens who are struggling with this disease. celiac disease can only be dealt with by a special diet. The only known cure is the consumption of non-gluten foods. For this reason, the state must make positive distinctions with celiac patients in the role of regulator. For example, to promote non-gluten food production, a provision must be made in taxes. Respected lawmakers, although the exact number is unknown, I would like to remind you that 750,000 people in our country are allergic to celiac disease or gluten. The gluten-free food found in our major cities such as Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir must be spread all over Asia Minor. We have submitted our proposals every time. We're one big family. If we can't provide our child with any chocolate in Antalya Hebrew, or Nevşehir, or if we can't get the pasta to our brother, we must resolve this matter. Look, I'd like to share with you the price of a few gluten-free foods that celiac patients have to consume. The pasta we bought for $2 is gluten-free for $6. The gluten-free one of the regular biscuits sold for 75 cents is $9. And it's not easy to find. Respected lawmakers, as you can see, celiac patients are facing a significant cost as of diet. According to the age group, the social security agency reported that our patients were paid between $78 and $120. God bless our state, but We have determined that this payment is not suitable for the present day, and We have increased it to an appropriate extent, so that it may be good. Most foods consumed by celiac patients are imported abroad. Gluten-free foods, which are taxed like ordinary foods, make living conditions difficult for celiac patients. With a joint study with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, we have envisioned programmes to encourage the production of gluten-free foods in our country. In the end, I would like to share with you the results of our work: First, in order to improve physician awareness of diagnostic problems, there must be a session of desert grass in medical conventions, with various trainings, not just family physicians, but a celiac consciousness in all disciplines. Work should be done to increase the number of gastroenterologists and to provide the infrastructure for hospitals with gastroenterology to be equipped with desertic diagnostics and treatments. Gluten-free diet in celiac disease is the only cure. The gluten-free diet must be described in detail by an expert dietian; it must be informed of food, medicine, contributions, and protections involving gluten. The curriculum for health education should include desertic disease in all educational institutions. Psychological support must be provided for newly diagnosed celiac patients. It has been deemed appropriate for family physicians to determine the duration of celiac health reports for celiac patients to be checked once a year. The celiac patients want to be able to reach gluten-free food at an easy and affordable price. Phenylketonia patients, whose number is fewer, are also facing similar problems. In both cases, a certain diet can be fought. In response to patients' demands for access to proper food, local producers and importers say that if costs can be reduced, competitive conditions can be improved, they can move a range of products to more celiacs at a more affordable price. So we made suggestions as the Commission: In order to select production basins for each product group, the producer must move to the scale economy in order to determine which areas and products will be provided, and to ensure cost efficiency by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm almost done, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0112par0033	Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0111par0034	Thank you. The production of grainlikes such as kinoa, buckwheat, and amarrant, which are not very grown in Turkey, should increase product diversity. Gluten-free product investors need to be provided with equipment, equipment and RD support. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism must develop measures to allocate a certain shelf volume to gluten-free products in chain markets. In addition, gluten-free companies should be supported and the sales of gluten-free products should reduce the VAT rate from 8 per cent to 1 per cent. In businesses run by local government, such as People's Bread, it would be appropriate to increase the diversity of products and to create awareness in local governments in this direction. I believe we're doing the best we can on a matter of good. As I end my speech, I welcome you all from Almighty God to welcome Ramazan bear to the Turkish-Islam world with blessing, peace, and peace.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0113par0039	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, it belongs to our İzmir MP, Mr. Ertugrul Kürklül. Here you go, Mr. Furry, ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0114par0043	Mr. President, dear friends, we accept this report. The important thing is whether the government will adopt this report and fulfill the list of jobs predicted here. As the son of a mother who didn't know she had celiac disease myself, I learned quite well when I didn't know what it meant and I knew what it meant. So from here, I hope that this is an opportunity for everyone who's been disturbed by the desert, who's suffering from this disease, both medically and culturally to deal with it, to be answered by the government for their help, and I wish everyone who's been exposed to this disease to it to get better as soon as possible. Since there is no acquish or any other preparation to examine the report in medical and other ways, I find it unnecessary to discuss it further. Yes, we find it positive, as a matter of fact. But allow me to take this opportunity as an opportunity to evaluate the issues that are now on the agenda. The most important, most burning issue on our agenda is the great massacres of Israel's occupation in Palestine, the great humanitarian tragedies, and the ways and opportunities to face it. As a state, can the people of Turkey socially help the Palestinian people to cope with this aggression? We seem to be helping with the speech, but in the morning session before this meeting, as Ayhan Bilgen. Speaking for our group, there's nothing but envy in hand, and there's also damage done by the size of this hammock. The most important thing is to understand the Israeli-Palestinian issue as a matter of religion and to read it as a conflict between the cruel Jews and the oppressed Muslims, and there's nothing more wrong than that. For two reasons, first of all, it's not really like that. Secondly, the Palestinian people are not only Muslims, they are a multiethnic society, like all Middle Eastern societies. Of the 3 million people living in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, 83 percent are Palestinian Arabs, 17 percent are Jews, so we're talking about a society where Jews and Arabs live together, and only 75 percent are Muslims, 17 percent Jews and 18 percent Christians. Thus, once all Palestinians are exposed to Israel's attack. The situation is no different in Gaza, where the Muslim structure is broader, 99.5% of Arabs, 98 percent Muslims, but as a whole, Palestine is obviously a multiethnic, multi-digit, multi-religious, multi-religious society. If we're talking about a city, a country where three religions meet, while Jerusalem is already taking it to the sky...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0115par0047	Then why do Muslims always die? Why is it always the Muslim who dies, Mr. Orator?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0114par0048	Yeah, mind your own business.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0115par0049	It's what I do.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0116par0050	Mr. Furry, please address the General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0117par0052	Now, it's not a struggle for religion, it's a struggle for colonial nations. On one side of colonialism are both religious Muslims and states that keep the United States pure. In the colonization of Palestine, there were Arabs who ruled the Arab states and governments who claimed allegiance to Islam, as well as Arabs who belonged to another religion, another religion, but fought for the independence of Palestine. Among them, we can count the Palestinian People's Liberation Front leader, Nayif Aviation, and the Palestinian People's Liberation Front leader, George Habaş. They were both Christian Arabs and they were fighting against Israel's aggression. Israel also has democratic forces fighting against Zionism and against Zionist occupation. As a whole, Turkey played a role in a series of tensions of American dominance or imperialism in the Middle East, Israel, but it's not hard to say that it's always been on the American axis. So if there's anything meaningful to be done, perhaps I'd like to tell you what I was told in an interview when I was a journalist, in an interview with Palestinian militant Samir Al Kantar, who was released after 20 years in prison. Perhaps then, if you look from Turkey to Palestine, everyone can see how close or far away even those who really fight for freedom and who are actually in the Islamic wing are, in fact, fighting for freedom. Before he was killed, Kantar told me that a few years after he was released, he was killed in an Israeli air strike. All attempts without a program are futile. Resistance is in our tradition. We need to liven up this culture and tradition and follow a policy of salvation that defies the United States of America. The main issue is resistance-surrender tension. Respecting the will of the people and defending a program against American imperialism and Zionism is the key issue. Well, that's the whole point. Where do we stand in this surrender-resistence tension? For example, it is clear that the Justice and Development Party governments, especially the Palestinian Liberation Movement, have clearly followed a line that splits this resistance into two separate governments as Gaza and the West Bank, and have served very clearly to break up the resistance, following a pro-Hamasist attitude here in Gaza, especially in Gaza. At last, the Palestinians have managed to overcome this rift themselves. Hamas and the Palestinian Liberation Organization have managed to re-establish a common resistance line, but after all these years of damage to them. So if we're really going to be on the side of the Palestinian people's struggle for freedom and salvation, then, first of all, we need to know that the Palestinian people we're fighting for are a very ephemeral people, where we're supporting a liberation democratic perspective, and we need to finally be active in it. Let's tell our friend who just told me what was going on in Palestine, that the revolutionaries of Turkey, the socialists, know very well what was going on there, where they gave martyrs. In the early 1980s, at the end of the 1970s, Turkish revolutionaries were killed there. Our Faik Cloud friend, who could save his life among them, who was caught without being killed, was imprisoned in Israel for many years. During the Beirut invasion, Kurdish revolutionaries fought alongside the Palestinian Liberation Organization to defend Beirut, hundreds of them gave their lives. So we know what the Palestinian case is. In order to adopt the whole of Turkey, the foundation of the brotherhood is not enough to solve anything. The point is, independence from imperialism and all processes on the United States-Israel axis require a bold political challenge in the Middle East, but we have not seen this bold politics. Trump was expected to rise to power. We are hopeful of the term "Trump." The people who ruled Turkey said "Trump." Now, don't they bear the responsibility that this hope has become a nightmare for the Palestinian people? So, what we're going to do is, first of all, we're going to have a cool strategy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need a few minutes to finish.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0118par0058	Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0117par0059	Are we or are we not going to support this without expecting any response to a religious and ethnic fanatical nation's efforts to rebuild itself, outside the existing regime of domination, to build itself in a new liberal paradigm here? This has nothing to do with the hopes that Ottomans would betray Palestinian politics. Let us remember, dear friends, that the shadow of the Ottoman Empire is not a loved and desired shadow in the Arab world. The Arabs consider their struggle to escape Ottoman domination a part of their national identity. If the Republic of Turkey approaches them in solidarity with a free, democratic, secular republic, it will serve the Palestinian cause best. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0118par0062	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin belongs to our MP, Mr. Aytuğ Shooter. Here you go, Mr. Horseman. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0119par0067	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Parliamentary Research Commission Report on celiac disease in 554 rows. And I salute those who do not sacrifice public health for the greed of making money. Dear friends, a commission has been established to address the problems of the celiacs; from lawmakers to faculty, patients to doctors, industrialists to NGOs. I'd like to thank everyone who's passed the job. Glad we could help. Dear friends, almost everything about the desert has been discussed. And I would like to share with you the painful events of our country, the events that will not be forgotten during the time I've been acting as a member of parliament. As I announced my candidacy for congressional elections on June 12, 2011, I described my goal, my feelings with the following lines of Cait Sitkı Tarancı: The sky shall be blue, and the branch shall be green, and the field shall be yellow; Let the birds be the land of the flowers. No sorrow at first, no longing at heart; Let the brother fight finally come to an end. No rich, no poor, no difference between you and me; Let everyone have their homes on the winter day. Live, like love, from the heart; If there is a complaint, let it be death. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I wish the wishes of those verses had come true, and I could have had a different conversation today. Today, I've been honoring and honoring the power given to me by the people of Mersin for seven years, again, unfortunately, by repeating the same lines, and with this longing, I'm ending my parliamentary position. I wish I could read you better poems. Yeah, what happened during that time? Things we've suffered a lot, things you've caused us a lot of pain, things our nation can't forget. For example, Adana Aladağ, we couldn't forget the house fire; we suffered a lot, then. You purposely took our children away, delivered them to cults, congregations, and burned our young because of their neglect; 12 dead, can we forget? Another thing we can't forget: our children who were sexually abused in the homes of the Ensar Foundation in Karaman. We suffered a lot, especially once. When we were told, our lungs burned; we can't forget. And it was an AKP minister who said that. What have you done to us, can we forget? Soma, 301 death. Ermenek, 18 workers lost their lives. Is it possible to forget Aunt Ayþe's screams, Uncle Recep's screams, her son who died in the flood of the mine, who couldn't swim, and what did she do in the water? What a pain you've caused Turkey. In Zonguldak, the bodies of 30 workers were reached 28 days later in Karadon Mining January. Recep Tayyip Erdogan said this was the fate of the profession. How we suffered. Again, the Minister of Labour and Social Security died well. He burned our lungs. We've suffered so much because of you. Here's another thing: the Wish Özpınar incident. The minister's trying to hand you money, cancer patient, college student boy. I am not a beggar. It was almost as if he was swearing at us when he screamed that mankind had died. The killings of women, which ended in the massacre of Özgecan, have been very, very painful in your time. Adeta was a peace ambassador, Tahir Elçi, who was murdered again in your time and because of the error of your policies. We've suffered so much. You have declared a curfew in Şırnak province, and we still have footage of Mother Taybet, whose body has been kept on the ground for seven days. You've caused these people a lot of pain. In the December 17th-25th corruption cases, Riza Zarrab-bakan relations have suffered a great deal because of the money that has been reset, because of your ministers who were not sent to the Supreme Court. We can't forget those days, we've suffered so much. I can still see the images of the citizen who burned himself in front of the House. You've caused a lot of pain. Erdogan's words of two drunkards have caused all Turkey, including the AKP people, to suffer a great deal. In the days when Prime Minister Davutoglu claimed that he was a young man, saying that he was a violent bunch of Sunni, our lungs burned, our hearts burned, you burned. The fascist attacks on Aysel Tuğluk's mother's funeral occurred again during your time. We've suffered a lot, a lot. The murdered, the violent medics, the physicians were in your era, never before. Again, you have caused Turkey much, much pain. Going to martyr funerals was killing us. When we often went to martyr funerals and heard those screams, it was devastating to all of us, it was painful; you did it, it was during your time. We will build a nuclear power plant for Akkuyuya, Sinop. You have caused suffering to all of Turkey. Turkey suffered a great deal because of more than 4 million people who fled Syria and war and took refuge in our country. Teachers who could not be appointed suffered a lot during your time; Turkey cannot forget them, it will not. Is it possible to forget Metin Lokumcu, who died of pepper spray at Artvin Hopa? And those ISIS monsters burning our soldiers still don't bother you? Look what you've done -- there was so much more to count -- in just seven years, I don't count 16 years; what you've done to this country after I've become a congressman! By concealing everything in public with the mysterious dig in Tarsus, what was taken away from here? He still remembers that you did things that would humiliate the government. Is it possible to forget the Aylan baby that washed up on the shore? Is it possible to forget the baby Ayaz, who lived in a broken house and died of pneumonia 40 days old, and the baby Muharrem, whose funeral was carried in a sack in Van Gosha; the mother who committed suicide after giving the hair dryer to her brother to warm her child in Adana? What a pain you've left behind! Do you realize how much pain you've caused this country? Even when I'm talking, even when I'm talking, I'm going through this pain again. What you did in juvenile detention centers, children who lost their lives and were raped, all in your time. All these things have been cried out from this stand. They have said, "Don't do it." You haven't listened. The teacher of Aybuke and Necmettin, who were slaughtered by terror, in the Ergenekon case, is it possible to forget the people who died, the people who were arrested, the people who were killed in the Sledgehammer case? How much you've caused us. You stole our children's questions, you ignored them, you cooperated with them. Everyone's questions were stolen from elementary school to college. How our children suffered, how they suffered. Every election period you used the IS-KUR (the AKP office) and hired a lot of people, made those who couldn't be taken suffer; the election was over; you put people in front of the door, and you made them suffer again. The Blue Marmara incident took place during your time, and you took $20 million in silence, and you covered it up on those bodies. Aren't you ashamed? Didn't you suffer at all? What happened in Jerusalem today, was it not because of the power from this place, the Jewish medal of courage? Will this country ever forget this? You've put us through this, you've caused us a lot of pain. Greece came, invaded our islands, planted the Greek flag. You made us suffer in front of our eyes. You've made all of Turkey suffer. Look, you've never looked for race or segregation. The travel stuff happened during your time. Is it possible to forget Ali Ismail Korkmaz, Ahmet Atakan? Berkin will not forget Elvan, Ethem Sarısuluk, Mehmet Ayvallıtaş, Medeni Yıldırım, Hasan Ferit Gedik, as he has not forgotten the Seas. Look what you left behind. You're leaving, but it's gonna be really, really hard to fix what you left behind, and it's gonna be really hard. On top of all of that, the deal you made with Å -- according to you -- with the Fetullahist movement at the time --
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0120par0120	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0119par0121	...this task force gave birth to us on the 15th of July. Do you have any fingers on this July 15th or not? Don't you ever feel guilty about putting the country in this position? How many people have suffered, they are still suffering. Is it possible to forget that? It wasn't enough, you did the July 20 coup, you declared a state of emergency. People are still suffering, still. You've left so much pain. We still see the hunger strikes of Nuriya and Samaria, the death fasts. The explosion at Ankara Station occurred during your time. Who did it, guys? Did they come from abroad and do it? It happened during your time. What happened, where was your intelligence in Roboski? Where was the intelligence of my government when those people died? Do you still or do you not feel the pain of those who died in Suruç in Reyhan? After the June 7th elections, when our country turned into a bloodbath, didn't your conscience hurt? Haven't you ever had tears in your eyes? Didn't you suffer at all? You've caused a lot of pain. You've put nationalism under the table, you've caused pain. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0121par0126	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0119par0127	You've put innocent Kurdish people through the process of opening up and you've destroyed them. You've brought the money for the knife to Turkey. I mean, you've caused so much pain that you've left so much to remember that I can't end up counting on this country; I can't end up counting city hospitals, privatisations. The homes you've distributed as an excuse, the MPs you've arrested for ignoring the will of the nation, the municipalities you've appointed as trustees... What a pain you've caused! And financially, too. When I became a congressman, seven years ago, $1.57, today it's $4.40, Euro 2.25, today it's 5.22. We carried out a march of justice on this whole gloomy painting, and there was hope for Turkey. On 24 June, flowers will bloom not only in the mountains of Izmir (Izmir) but in the mountains of all Turkey, all of Turkey. I also want to thank the people of Mersin, who elected me to be a member of parliament for three semesters. Good-bye.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0122par0134	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Horseman, we thank you very much for your contribution and support to the Parliamentary studies, and we wish you the best of luck in your next life.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0123par0136	According to 60, there's a...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0122par0137	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0123par0140	Mr. President, Mr. Horseman has made a decision, and I understand he's stepping down as a member of parliament. We wish him well in his next life. The talk he's given here is about each title in the seven years he's served, about the very rich debates he's made over politics, the many words he's said, the bilateral thesis he's expressed. I don't think it's the right and consistent political language to take these and introduce them in the flow logic of such a sentence-criminal scenario and try to create an image with a lot of pain. I think what's painful and sad is that after seven years of experience, a congressman comes out and does his final speech like this. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0124par0143	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, it belongs to our Kayseri MP, Mr. Ismail Tamer. Here you go, Mr. Tamer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0125par0151	Thank you, my dear President. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I would like to present our opinion, our report, as the Desertak Commission, regarding the diagnosis of celiac disease, the diagnosis process, the reasons, the consequences, and the measures needed to be taken by those exposed to this disease. I salute you all with respect and love. However, before I speak, I bless the Palestinian martyrs of Gaza, whom we sacrificed yesterday to the terror of Israel. I wish for immediate healing to our wounded Palestinian brothers. We're always cursing this human drama, this genocide. Jerusalem is in fact Ankara, Istanbul, all over Turkey today. Jerusalem, again, is now the capital of all Islamic countries. Jerusalem, which is sacred to three heavenly religions, is the first of us Muslims. It is the site of the Masjid-i Aksa, where the Prophet Lord Muhammad Mustafa (SAV) rose to the altar. Palestine is a real country that has been struggling for years. The United States has chosen to carry its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, continuing its attitude that violates the most fundamental principles of international law, the will of the international community, the historical and social truth. The United States has been part of the problem, not the solution, by taking this step. The Middle East brought blood, not peace. The United Nations have taken this step, even disregarding the United Nations decisions, which are incompatible with humanity's rights, justice, and rights. With this practice, he has punished Palestine, who has repeatedly proven that he wants peace; he has also rewarded Israel's government for invading hundreds of years of land, violating its commitments to two states with blockades and illegal settlements, trying to make it impossible. Neither history nor human conscience will ever forgive the injustices committed to our Palestinian brothers. I say the solution is possible with the formation of the Palestinian State's capital as East Jerusalem within the borders of 1967. Also, I'd like to congratulate your Ramadan ambassador. I wish it would bring blessings to our country and to the Islamic world. May 10 through 16 was the week of the disabled. This is where I celebrate our disabled brothers. Again, as a doctor, I would like to congratulate you on the Day of the 12th of May. Dear friends, my dear friends have expressed celiac disease before me. Actually, I won't mention it broadly, but first I thank my brother -- his first motion, and then our Commission, which was formed on June 16th and worked until December 19th. Of course, you know, during that time, especially in July, with the House taking a vacation, our work was interrupted, and we started working again on October 1st. Again, we've had nine meetings in these Commission studies, and we've heard 33 people on the Commission. We also went to our three provinces, where we listened to our patients and their bedouin families, and we took notes. There's one motion submitted to the commission. Six experts have been assigned, seven requests for information. We also continued our work in Şanlıurfa, Bursa, and Kayseri. After all, of course, we've prepared this report in three episodes on the problems of the celiac patients that our Commission has prepared. The first part was drafting the report. Chapter one contains general medical information on celiac disease. We've identified, identified, and treated their purpose and shapes here. The second chapter includes assistance that can be helped by celiac patients and their relatives. In sectional content, access to health care, access to appropriate food, available and envisioned social benefits and benefits were also the beginning of our work on patients. The third chapter contains problems and proposals for solutions. Dear friends, my dear friend -- a valued doctor -- expressed briefly by my friend -- but I'm going to say that it's a disease that occurs when a protein called celiac, mostly wheat, oatmeal and rye is allergic to the body, so it's in the thin intestines and digestive systems. You know, food is digested in the small intestines of the human body. The disease arises when it destroys the organs called.vilus...... which absorbs the small intestines of this gluten. When it's destroyed, it's shaped like a small bowel tube, and when the food is taken, the diarrhea happens when it goes straight away. Since the absorption is already low, there are a lot of absorptions... here, iron is being absorbed from here. You know, iron, especially the main ingredient in anemia, causes anemia when it can't be absorbed, weaknesses emerge, weaknesses emerge, many things go like this, absolutely no treatment, no medication. What's the cure? With gluten food removed from the body, it's cured. So here, we first suspect in a serological test called the immunoglobulin A., which is a precise diagnosis of the cases that we suspect, through a gastroenterology expert, was taken from the small intestine. Here's the most important thing: we treat patients by taking gluten away from these patients. Now, when we looked at Turkey, there were big problems with the work we did on the production of gluten foods in Turkey. So we've done a lot of work with both the Department of Agriculture and other relevant ministries to eliminate them. I can express in particular the reports and shortcomings that we've made: we've been asking for medical reports from hospitals every year, especially for celiac patients, so we've eliminated this, we've raised it to three years. Then we did one more thing. While the report of the full delegation was in effect earlier, we also agreed that only the gastroentereal expert, the gastroenterologist, was given the only medical report, which I would like to say was highly favourable by the patients. Then we had meetings with the Ministry of Health. We have stated that studies on the education of physicians and especially the attention of desertia need to be done about raising awareness and that family physicians need to be trained. We all know the general shortage of gastroenterologists in Turkey. We've been working on increasing the number of these. We have expressed that autoimmune and other metabolic diseases are also important. Again, we made sure that the dieticians, the pharmacists, the doctors, did it on purpose. We also stated that psychological support is important for new diagnosed patients, and we provided psychological support. We've managed to create the database. We've had important talks with the Ministry of National Education. We've been able to get the syllabus in schools to teach the celiac patients more effectively. We've made sure that the school cafeterias are prepared for private places where celiac patients can eat their meals. We also stated that celiac disease is not a form of celiac disease, but a way of life, which should be given in all educational institutions, starting with elementary schools in children. Again, we have arranged for measures to be taken to ensure that the celiac child is properly trained in all educational institutions. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has brought on a lot of work. We've helped enrich gluten-free products, create the production field, develop the scale economy. We've arranged for such gluten-free foods, such as quinoa, buckwheat, and amarand, to be especially developed by the RDs to produce wheat, even to be supported by them. You know, gluten-free foods were scarce in Turkey, but in recent years, we've been overanalyzing the development of this industry, and it's been very happy. Dear friends, there are many things we can count, but we've already written our report. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I need one more minute, my dear President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0126par0172	Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0125par0173	Dear friends, I'm speaking to my dear fellow lawmakers who have helped us through our work -- including all our members of the Commission and our experts helping the Commission -- and I thank those who have done all the work, including our esteemed Parliament Speaker, Ismail Kahraman. And here's a thank you, I want to thank our Commission, the presidents of the celiac association who follow our every study. The heads of the association of celiac patients came to every meeting with great sacrifice, and they personally helped us by expressing the problems they experienced here. I wish you all the blessings of the work we've done for the celiac patients, and I give you all my regards, and good health, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0127par0177	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. Members of parliament, general talks have been completed on the report of the Parliamentary Research Commission, established under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Article 104 and 105 of the Articles of the Civil Charter of the Constitution, on the study of the diagnostic process, the reasons, the results, and the measures that should be taken by which the aid can be taken to those who are exposed to this disease has been investigated. Members of parliament, we are now starting general talks on the Council Research Commission's Report, which is now in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under which the Council Research Commission shall be established in accordance with Articles 2 of the Constitution. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 555 rows. Vocabulary demands on the report of the Research Commission on cultural assets: On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr. Nihat Akdoğan, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Serdal Welcuoğlu, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Isen. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first word belongs to our Ottoman MP, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0128par0189	Dear President, honorable lawmakers, I served on behalf of our party group on behalf of the Commission regarding the report mentioned. A Commission, which was established with the joint acceptance of cultural diplomacy, especially in foreign policy, as well as in what might be the place of cultural diplomacy, in order to determine cultural beings that have been abducted abroad, to bring them into our country, to protect them, has done a very efficient work. I'd like to begin by saying thank you to the valued members of all political parties who contribute in these works and to the Commissioner, Professor Mustafa Isen Bey. The human species confronts nature in its earthly adventure and engages in a variety of interactions and generates some values for self-existence, for survival, as a result of the relationship between nature and man. The values he produces in a concrete sense, according to the hierarchy of basic needs, according to the development of human beings, shape cultural beings based on basic needs, but simultaneously cultural practices continue as non-responsive cultural beings. In the early stages of ancient civilizations, especially in the mythology, in the epic period, material and spiritual cultures exist together. In fact, they also exist at the point of understanding religion and the relationship with the Creator, along with the understanding and cognitive process of human life. The development stage of all of this comes from the stages of mankind's earthly adventure that we all know about, and with urbanization, modern time returns to the past this time with a postmodern phase, trying to figure out what was going on and build a new future for itself with its cultural heritage. So by severing the link, by removing the chain, he realizes he can't exist. Even though modern life alone, imposes individualization, monotheistic life, then it becomes clear that loneliness and individualization make life meaningless, and the human interest in its own civilization or other civilizations increases, and the process begins by raising the question of what humanity is doing in the result of the common mind and the accumulation of humanity. So once this process of understanding begins, these societies that make learning and understanding a part of education in different areas of life are regarded as advanced societies. And we're looking at historical artifacts in terms of how they view historical artifacts, and they're looking at historical artifacts in the first degree, and they're looking at how they don't appreciate them. In cases of war, if there is a state of emergency in that country, if there is a state of war and the government cannot protect it, historical artifacts are kidnapped, taken away, trafficked by those who are aware, or, in this sense, not enough economic assets, and if it is bankrupt, a country sells its historical artifacts and tries to exist. I mean, it's kind of like our daughter-in-law who sells her own dowry chest or has to sell it. On the other hand, as a third element, non-conscious societies that don't have enough education do not have their work at this point. Now, when we consider three of these questions together, where are we as Turkey? We started by asking the Commission, and thankfully, the Commission was accepted by all political parties on the grounds that the state of the Republic of Turkey has a trained audience that is aware of its own civilization, of its savings, and that its educated people are obliged to create awareness in the community. I believe, as the Commissioner and the Commissioner of our Commission will present the chronology of business and actions in a moment, I do not wish to present them. Our contacts inside and abroad have given us considerable awareness as members of the Commission, and have created a momentary problem to solve, with certain laws, regulations, neglected issues in public bureaucracy recognized in place. And this is not supposed to be left here by saying, "This is our report." We, as a member of the Commission, have also made some plans, with the recognition of our Commission's president, to come to the press conference and to inform on the social awareness of this, and to contribute from public officials or civilian areas in which we are collaborating, to extradite our Commission report and be reinstated, not to be left on the shelf, but to be put into service and action. I may have expressed today that this work is not just a work on the shelves. Dear lawmakers, dear friends, these evaluations, fundamental assessments and proposals, the issue of Jerusalem, which we long for to have a common agenda of humanity on the agenda today, but is an intense agenda of the Islamic world, is the issue of Palestine, and especially of moving to Jerusalem as the capital of the embassy -- the position of those Palestinian Muslims -- the CEO of the United States of America, we call the CEO of the United States, who are far away from the president's mind -- is the subject of debate over the policies of a CEO trying to set up an agenda with the Twitter bird and the world's mocking mechanism. In this regard, we condemn and condemn these crimes against humanity, this persecution against humanity. And as we look at this issue beyond reproach, we are aware that the state of Israel, in this sense from its establishment, is doing this with a terrorist state that has a reference to terrorism and doesn't know international law, and while doing it with religious behavior, with a sense of supply, with a sense of control of Jewish understanding and religious ideology, we are aware that the Jewish government is also suffering from these policies within Israel. In the talks held here, of course, we respect the religious and ethnic cultural diversity of the peoples of Palestine. In that sense, there may be people looking at Palestine who view the struggle for existence of the Palestinian people as the struggle for humanity or the struggle for their freedom. But why don't those of the people and people of different ethnities, identities and religions who exist here, who I insist upon, die, and why do Muslims die all the time? I take it as a natural right to ask the question. I'd like to underline the fact that there are others who have died there to fill the meaning of "the Muslim-Jewish issue." History, man and place are one, unbreakable. When a decent work, poetry has a poetica, the place has a poetica, and a historical artifact has a poetica. We can see that understanding floating from history in objects and museums that have been brought to this day. The development indicator of a society is proportional to the presence of museum capacity, the investment of investors in museums, culture, art. We have to remember that the Italian Renaissance is based on a Medici family, which has been established by this family's national bourgeois. In that sense, the question is, where are we in the cultural arts of social change? We see the power of the Law. At the residence of our embassy in Paris, we are delighted to read the letter of the Law to Fransuva, but the sword of the Law is displayed across the street at the Louvre, which is ironic in itself. We're in favor of bringing them in, but we think it's only possible for millions of people to come and do what we have to do with a presentation that they can see culture, civilization, history, art, aesthetic. In some cases, we have also witnessed that in the universal representation of Turkish-Islam civilization abroad, some of the bad we've seen have done good, and that's one thing to say. And we need to get some important messages from there. In this regard, we have made a comprehensive statement in our report of the messages we received as the Commission. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you a very good evening and congratulations on your Ramadan ambassador.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0129par0200	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0130par0202	Due to recent events, sir, I'd like to speak according to 60.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0129par0203	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0130par0206	Mr. President, my fellow deputies, Israel has requested that Turkey's chief consul in Jerusalem leave the country. A similar move came in the afternoon from Turkey for Israel. In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we said how diplomacy should work, how we should take a stance, and how we should take a stand. If we want them to pull their own consuls, their consulates out of here, we should have pulled our own consulate out of there before they could tell us. At a time when the deaths were still going on and people were being shot at, you pulled out your consulate. It was completely wrong to turn our own consulate over to their own views. Such behaviors and ill-advised behaviors have sadly undermined Turkey's external reputation. Therefore, our country's morale motivation is being corrupted, so the unity of our support for Palestine is being damaged. Again, we ask the government to take immediate, immediate steps and do what is necessary in matters we are warning. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0131par0209	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0132par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0131par0211	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0132par0212	I made a promise for the record. The process operates within the principle of mutual reciprocity of diplomacy. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0131par0214	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0133par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0131par0216	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0133par0217	Just for the record. Of course it is, but we have to take priority. You get your consul out of here, and we expect you to pay for it. It's not the right way to say diplomacy, it's not in harmony with our understanding of diplomacy for a hundred years. The Republic of Turkey doesn't deserve this. For him, I request the implementation of a foreign policy deserved by the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0131par0218	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Members of parliament, it is now on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group that it belongs to Mr. Nihat Akdoğan, our Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Akdoğan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0134par0226	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and my dear friends, who are running the presidential election process in prison, to the Commission for Assembly Research, which requires the establishment of provisions for the Protection of our existing Cultural Assets, and to determine the nature of our current cultural assets. On this occasion, I salute you. My dear friends, the world is ruled by sociopathic personalities, ignorants, and irresponsible people, along with massacres. Although yesterday was known as Nakba (Day of Disaster) in Palestinian history, the embassy moved to Jerusalem in accordance with the decision given by Trump to move the US Embassy to Jerusalem. With this move, they tried to get the Palestinian people to accept it with massacres. 60 people were killed, nearly 2,000 children, women were injured. This decision, far from the Middle East truth, invites the birth of new conflicts. I curse and condemn the massacre of the Israeli government against the Palestinian people. This is a genocide against the Palestinian people. I share the pain of the Palestinians who lost their lives, asking God for mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. Dear friends, the Commission was established on 16/10/2017, held many meetings, made many visits abroad and within Turkey. Although we have told the presidency so many times, Turkey has not been to Urbana Gobeklitepe, Hasankeyf, Animal Haraşı, Borıkköy, even though there are so many places close to the destruction of historical artifacts. Of course, it's important to pursue historical artifacts that have been smuggled abroad, but the most important thing is to have awareness of history, culture in the country, and historical artifacts that don't see enough value in the country, unfortunately because of the value it sees abroad, the appetites of ancient art smugglers. If historical tissues had been preserved enough, many would not have been smuggled abroad. As you do not protect historical sites and artifacts, you personally consent to their destruction. One of the main places is Hasankeyf. Earlier, Hasankeyf's homes were forced to evacuate and destroyed by cannon shots, saying, "How do people live in these caves?" Despite all the time that has passed, the AKP is trying to flood the government of Hasankeyf. You are not destroying the truth of Hasankeyf with the transfer of the Temple of Zeynel. Only one HES dam could cover the number of tourists to come to Hasankeyf (A) in two or three years, and thousands of people would be able to overcome it, but the government, which chose concreteisation instead of historical tissue, wants to flood Hasankeyf. Not only do we have the right here, but the values of all mankind are here. Now, our Commission is pursuing the people who have been abducted abroad, but historical tissue in the country is a mess. First, give the historical tissues within the country the necessary importance so that we can go out and ask for them more sincerely. Hasankeyf is being sacrificed to HES dam, and Hakkari Castle is now serving as a police station, and Ani's ruins have become a ruin. Turkey's geography contains numerous works of cultural heritage from 7000 BC to today. Today, most of these works are consciously abandoned to their own destiny without being known. Because we as a country cannot have a high sense of history, others have claimed our cultural assets and carried them outside the borders of our country. Today we continue to make the same mistake, destroying most of our existing works with our own hands. It is important, of course, to set up a commission under the House's roof to determine and return historical artifacts and cultural assets that have been smuggled abroad and try to take the necessary measures to protect cultural assets. However, in Mesopotamia and Asia Minor geography, the government's bilateral stance on the preservation and survival of the most valuable works in human history is of course likely to go down in history. The commission's primary task should be to present concrete suggestions on the measures to protect cultural and historical assets that have been transformed into a Rant area because of neoliberal policies during this period of power, as well as the detection and extradition of artifacts that have been smuggled abroad. At the point of preserving historical and cultural artifacts, the limited, intermittent and non-depressive initiatives of political power have never been able to create a sense of protection against these artifacts in the state's bureaucratic devices or in society. Before the government pursues the stolen artifacts, it must not turn its back on the thousands of years of historical heritage destroyed in Sur and Hasankeyf, and stop this destruction immediately and even apologize to the public. The political power, which dynamited the thousands of years of Hasankeyf's caves, and left the rest of the deep historical memory to the HESS, was not satisfied with that, but was not even silent about the destruction of dozens of historical structures in Sur. Despite numerous international campaigns for Hasankeyf, a thousand-year-old habitat and memory site will be flooded due to HES on the Tigris River. In January 2016, along with the bag law, the agreement adopted late one night was granted a visa to flood the historic city of Hasankeyf, which met 9 of the 10 criteria required to enter UNESCO's World Heritage List. It also makes sense that the project, which led to the destruction of Hasankeyf, was to be carried out by Genghis Holding and Nurol, whose name was involved in many business murders, which rose very quickly during the AKP period. The removal of the Zaynel Bey Temple and several mosques in Hasankeyf will not cover the thousands of years of historic destruction here. In particular, we think there's been a discrimination. In other words, the basis of the government's approach to cultural assets is the neoliberal orientation of the ruling party, which is deeply embraced by its ruling party, and has become an unconditional, unconditional representative in Turkish politics. That's exactly why the Ministrys of Culture and Tourism were combined with a masterful move during the power of this party, and there was an intervention in its subconscious that culture was a tourist thing, an input. Isn't that why the AKM and Muhsin Ertuğrul Scene are being offered a convention and a valley of culture to be set up between the Summit-Harbye? Isn't that why the 2010 calendar, where Istanbul was declared the European Capital of Culture, was opened with ballooned, hot, fireworks, Tarkan? Isn't that why it's not the same day that corruption reports about a maple art project don't go out to the media? Isn't that why the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has decided to privatise its place, including the Istanbul Ayasofia Museum, the House of Topkapi Palace, the House of Harem, the Efes Ancient City? After the conflict that began in 2015, the area of Tyre, called the heart, brain, and memory of the Diyarbakir, was almost completely destroyed. Today, the destruction plan, which was launched in Tyre, has deprived not only this country, but an entire family of mankind of one of the most unique cultural and memory sites in history. For thousands of years, the vast historical savings and artifacts left by the peoples who lived together have disturbed political power, flattened Sur ▪ and performed a memory erase there. The fact that new houses are being built in accordance with Turkish-Islam architecture aims to create a new consciousness of memory and history that is distorted and has nothing to do with reality. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, a moment, please.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0135par0241	Here you go, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0134par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. Just yesterday in Syria, the Abin Dara Temple of thousands of years was destroyed in the air raids launched by the TSK. One of the numerous examples of the cultural degradation of the AKP's ruling period is the allocation of an area of a green-capital chain of land in Antalya, 16km west of the Belt, located in the 6th century C.E. by the Rhodesians in the 6th century C.E. Despite all rising objections and lawsuits, the CED is not necessary. The report has been made. It will be a key guarantee that we can maintain our common heritage as our historical and cultural assets, which can survive in the geography we live in, and that we can maintain our existing pluralistic social structure in peace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0136par0247	We came to Hakkari this week, you didn't buy us tea, but...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0134par0248	Next time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0136par0249	Here you go, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0134par0250	Otherwise, nationalist, sectarian, and monotheist approaches to the preservation of our historical, cultural monuments and values will continue to serve the destruction of not only this land, but the precious works of the human heritage. Dear friends, Voltaire says that history is a field of kings, not of generals, but of nations. In the past, every nation will reap what it has planted in this field in the future. The history is the essence of countless life stories. This is the date you are trying to destroy today. Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0137par0254	Thank you, Mr. Akdoğan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin belongs to our MP, Mr. Serdal Welcuoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Wellercuoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0138par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear fellow lawmakers, as I begin my words, I ask God's mercy for those who were massacred yesterday in Palestine. We condemn this massacre. We wish that American imperialism and its extension, Israel, would stop its oppression and the slaughter of oppressed peoples, including the democratic countries of the world, including the Islamic countries. Islam is not just Islam. It's not just Islam. It's about taking care of the oppressed. I have received a pledge from the Parliamentary Research Commission Report, which was established on the purpose of determining the number 555 of our Abducted Cultural Beings and establishing the measures needed for the preservation of existing Cultural Beings. With a proposal from me on this commission, it became a joint motion with the participation of other groups because it was a study of Turkey's interests rather than politics. Turkey, as we know, is an open-air museum, where we live on a land that has been home to many civilizations, and in this regard, we can see Turkey as a superpower regarding cultural beings. Turkey is an outdoor museum. Now, there are two types of countries in the world -- some of them resource countries, some of them market countries. Here are countries such as resource countries, Turkey, Greece, Syria, Iraq, Egypt, Iran, China; countries where they are marketed are countries like Western countries, usually countries like Germany, France, Britain, America, Denmark -- developed and affordable. Of course, we need to take some precautions on that. Why? Because we're a source country, the artifacts that have been smuggled from us have been kidnapped and marketed there for years over the centuries. Of course, we need to take some precautions in these matters. Part of that is that we need to make legal arrangements. There's the government's work here, there's the Ministry's issues to follow, there's foreign museums to follow, because they're being taken by foreign museums and collectors as a result. What else? Also, auctioneers, auction halls need to be followed, catalogs and exhibitions need to be followed, of course, the relevant press needs to be followed. These are the jobs of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the State Department. Of course, one of the reasons we're doing this here is that Turkey has rich assets like this that have been smuggled abroad, and when we look at them in numbers over 100,000, they mean a lot of value. In our foreign relations, when we go abroad, the minister's, the Prime Minister's, the President's, let's have a file like this, and let's demand them from these countries, so we're going to take them from you, we're going to want them from you. We say it would be good for Turkey if we put them in addition to political demands, economic demands. Of course, the interest in Turkey, Anatolia, and Islamic geography is particularly starting with Napoleon's invasion of Egypt, which began in the 1800s, and it explodes in the 1910s. In particular, in 1906, 1912, 1914, a large number of artifacts were smuggled from Anatolia to the West from the Middle East. This, if you remember, is the time when the Ottomans were at work, during the Balkan War, during the period of turmoil, and the state authority was a little weak. Now, especially in 1918, when Greeks leave Asia Minor, they ship a lot of historical artifacts, take them to Greece, and they are in Greece. Again, there's a serious mix-up in the Middle East right now, you know, there's wars, there's Iraq, there's Syria. Many historical artifacts are being abducted from this region as well, and some of them are being captured in Turkey, and those captured in Turkey are in the warehouses in Gaziantep. We wish, when this war is over, we will take them back, of course, to the owners. Again, Bergama, we all know that Turkey is a city on the Aegean coast, our historic city, but where is the Bergama Museum? In Germany, in Berlin. Efes is another historical city near our Aegean coast, but where is the Museum of Efes? It is located in Austria, Vienna. So we're dealing with an oxymoron. Again, many of our works can be seen in many museums, when we go to Europe, in museums, in the Islamic section, in the Middle East, or in the Anatolian region. For example, in 1976, the door of the Great Mosque is being knocked on the door in Mardin Cizre, and it is exhibited at a private museum in Denmark today. Again, there is a sarcophagus at the entrance of the Metropolitan Museum in New York, which was stolen from my city, Tarsus. A sarcophagus called Abdo Debbas, taken by the American consul there at the time, is on display there. Again, the Karun treasures were stolen in 1964-1966, in 1983-1984, but they were returned. Now, again, the Troya treasure has an interesting story. In 1873, this was stolen from Anatolia again, taken to Germany. In World War II, when the Russians invade Berlin, they find these artifacts under the zoo's tower and take them to Russia as a war compensation. They say and take them to Pushkin Museum. Today, Germany wants them back. What we're saying is that the roots of these artifacts are ours, stolen from Asia Minor. We have to take care of them, we have to demand them. Again, there are a pair of figurines called Starhunters. There's an interesting story about these. In the 80s, a farmer finds it as a woman plows the field -- she hangs out with me -- and she returns a pair of slippers to a farmer who comes to the village. Two years ago, this piece, called the Star Hunter, is sold for $14.5 million at the auction in New York. Now, of course, in this framework, we took some trips as a commission; so we went to Germany, we went to Denmark, we went to Paris, we went to London, and we visited these museums. Political relations, of course, have affected these contacts, so we didn't get enough efficiency from Germany, but especially when you go to the Louvre in Paris, you see the artifacts stolen from Asia Minor. In London, you see the work being done in Victoria and Albert, in the British, and in Christies, at the auction hall. In the Louvre, especially in Turkey, you see all the Chinese stolen from Selimian Turbage II and Piyale Pasha Mosque. Now, of course, there's something about these demands, which is important: many artifacts have been stolen from temples. There's no time for temples. There is a claim among the Westerners that they say: 'We have taken it from you. Who did we get it from? We got it from Abdulhamit Khan. We got it from Abdulhamit Padishah. There's no such warrant, but maybe there's a shipping document, and then there's the Asar's Atika Act. And according to that law, there's no way they could have taken it and carried it, so there's no way the king would have allowed it alone. Of course, there are many agreements. There's an agreement made by 137 countries in 1970. In this frame, we need to make these initiatives. Of course, there's a lot of countermeasures to be taken here. Once, once, we're free to sell detectors. So turn on the Internet, they sell detectors by counting their properties, and when you look at where these treasurers are digging, you can see hundreds of studies on the Internet. So, with this much freedom, the treasure seekers can work with their hands in their arms. These things need to be contained. It's one of the biggest deals of this smuggling...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0139par0276	Here you go, Mr. Wellercuoğlu.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0138par0277	Thank you. ...collects because they buy a lot of things, they get a chance to sell a lot of them without booking them, so if you have 10 things, they tell the museum two percent of it, and they don't tell the museum the rest. Of course, that doesn't apply to everyone, but they need to be seriously monitored. Again, we need to protect our historical and status zones correctly and well. Something else: we need to create awareness, especially from our children. So we need to be aware of this education, of how valuable these are, and how much they need to be protected. For that, education is important. Again, the government's payments on this matter need to be swift and affordable. Otherwise, what happens? You're automatically encouraging smuggling. In some countries, there are departments in the police department, such as Italy, where we don't have it, this is the spring of history, but there's nothing like it here. We need to work with the law enforcement staff, you're a hottie with people who know how to do it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0140par0284	Here, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0138par0285	And here's another important thing: we said, at first, that we are one of the source countries. There are resource countries like us, I've just counted, including Egypt, Iraq, Syria, Turkey, Iran, China and Greece from the Middle East. Now, there are many countries. In that case, we need to form a unity by leading these countries, as well as by leading them. If we can make this union, there are a lot of victims, and if we can get together with them, and we can pioneer it, we can make important decisions in the United Nations. I'm just saying that that would be one of the biggest factors to prevent international art smuggling. Thank you. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0140par0288	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I understand you have a request.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0141par0292	I've been promised a very brief statement. It's the beginning of Ramadan. I wish for Ramadan to be the cause of peace and brotherhood for all peoples of Turkey, the Middle East and the world, without war, for goodness and justice. That's what I promised.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0140par0294	Thank you very much, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. It belongs to our Sakarya MP, Mr. Mustafa Isen. Here you go, Mr. Isen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0142par0302	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, my friends have discussed it in various dimensions, they've told me at the point of study on the abductions abroad and the preservation of cultural assets within the country. Indeed, for about four months, we did a pleasant work, and as a result of this study, we did what the ancients called a controversial and inclusive report, so without too much conjecture, we came up with a painting that contained more concrete, current information, and more concrete information. I, in this framework, thank you very much to my fellow commissioners; I really think we're working in harmony with all parties. But I'd like to say that I'm also a little complacent with what Mr. Nihat Bey said, and I'm sorry, but I'd like to point out that I'm not comfortable with the fact that he's been involved in these studies on a very low level and that he's approached the issue with such a subjective sense of criticism. History, of course, is not the garbage of kings, not the farm, but the history of lawmakers is not the farm; history has its own reality. I'd like to express that in particular. First, I'd like to start with what we've done as commissions. We held meetings in Parliament with our fellow commissioners; we then conducted studies abroad and abroad; and with the assessment of information and documents provided by public institutions, this report was also revealed with the help of experts. We believe that if the proposals of our Commission are implemented, our cultural assets will be able to be protected and prevented from being abducted abroad. In this framework, the Commission first listened to representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and General Directorate of Foundations, senior members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security General Directorate and the General Command of the Gendarme General Command, the museum and the dignitaries, the debaters, in short, all the discussions concerning the matter within the country, and then the museum venues were visited by Istanbul, and they were discussed with the key contacts here, followed by talks with both museum managers and representatives of UNESCO in Germany, Denmark, France and Britain. I'd like to share with you the proposals in more of the results of the report, but first I'd like to point out how much Turkey has potential in this area. Mr. Serdal has expressed himself. This is the expression of a UNESCO high-level representative, a superpower in the cultural potential of Turkey. I sincerely believe that. Dear friends, I'd like to give you an example: there's a Japanese dig in Kaman. This dig is just one of the 12,000 mounds in Asia Minor, and I'm going to step on it. This mound created a museum, created an archeology institute, and created an international location here. So there are so many potentials in this geography if the current examples are tried to be evaluated. There are very important artifacts from very different civilizations. We have the same approach to protecting, protecting, and leaving the works of these different civilizations to tomorrows. We want this report to contribute to the outcome. One of the most important functions of this framework is that we've held meetings from time to time, and we've tried to explain to the public how important a treasure we're on at these meetings, so that our own citizens first realize how valuable some of the objects that come out of the door and step on them are. In the same way, we'd like to send a similar message to the public. If you intend to buy these artifacts, smuggle them out of Turkey, Turkey follows them at the highest level, through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and if you pay for them tomorrow, you will be able to buy them back. So we want a deterrent effect. In this framework, we want to share the report -- I spoke with the UNESCO National Commission in Turkey in the past week, especially with the TÜRKSOY -- with the same resource countries, and so we will try to get these funds to shed light on those countries and to allow them to have a similar awareness. As for solution proposals, it has shown in this framework that there are a number of shortcomings that must be done both in terms of legislation and in terms of implementation. Intermittent education should be done to citizens around sites and immovable cultural beings that need to be protected; we say that they need to recognize their environment, protect their cultural presence, and feel the consciousness of culture. We think that the regional units of the Police General Directorate and the General Command of the Gendarmes should weigh in on the investigations aimed at preventing old art trafficking. The work machines used in fugitive excavations are confiscated. The added judgment is among our proposals. We're bringing in an offer to ensure that the immovable cultural assets found in mujavir areas are surrounded by fences, protected by guard or camera systems. We recommend that the mound, the tumor, and the necropolis areas be subject to inspections by the headquarters of the General Command of the Gendarmes, and if possible, a new unit under the name of the cultural police. Ancient art smugglers are heading to places where cultural assets such as museums, libraries, mosques, churches, and synagogues are protected. We believe that old artifacts around here should be photographed, detailed inventory and periodic inspections. We recommend that any detectors that encourage illegal excavations be banned or restricted. We state that it is necessary to amend the relevant law in order to include crimes in Article 67 of Law 2863. We think internal market control should be ensured. We think museums need infrastructure for specialization. In all our museums, there's a certain amount of staff, but it takes about a decade for a museum assistant to become an expert. For that, we feel that a broader level of interaction and development should be provided with more qualified elements. Dear lawmakers, in this framework, it is also vital that the external demand be broken. One of the most important reasons for smuggling cultural assets is external demand. In order to break this request, the detection of cultural assets that have been smuggled abroad must be weighted and any means available for extradition. The court must also try to extradite non-refundable cultural assets through bilateral negotiations. Today, there is a fine example of the results of these efforts. Studies from the Zeugma Museum, which is now in the collection of a very important university in the United States, have entered the phase of extradition to Turkey in a collaborative framework with the ministry. Relations with countries who are victims of ancient art trafficking must be tightened and international contracts must be fought to ensure protection arrangements for victims of countries. And I would like to point out that because the market countries are generally dominated by UNESCO and so on, these are the regulatory regulations, and therefore, it is not possible for these artifacts to be recycled. We also need to provide proper sensitivity through our foreign diplomatic missions at the point of pursuit of this work. In this framework, I particularly want to point out that some of my friends who spoke before me expressed that there are legal examples taken from Turkey in European museums. These are our representatives in those countries, and they're shown with an extremely good sense of museumism. We're not interested in the demand of all the works, but, you know -- my friends have expressed it again -- the Beyhekim Mosque is still in Konya, but its altar is in Berlin. There are some artifacts in which we have the body, or the head in other countries, or the head in other countries. I believe that this difference must be resolved and that these artifacts should be returned to the land where they belong. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0143par0324	Thank you, Mr. Isen.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0144par0325	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0143par0326	Come in, Mr. President, I'm listening.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0144par0327	In his speech, Mr. Orator used an ugly statement, such as that of the MPs, who had not made a contribution to the Commission. That's why I don't pick on...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0143par0328	Don't make fun of me, Mr. Akdoğan. Let's not make a new tease.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0145par0332	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly again. Mr. President himself knows that I have a curfew and how hard I've worked on it, and he knows that my last curfew has been lifted. Gene, isn't it true that there are solidarity platforms about Hasankeyf, where the whole world has shed tears? Or do you find it true, or are you approved, what has been done about Hasankeyf? You approve of the destruction of the place? You are trying to create a single type in the area related to Tyre. It's just that we have to accept... We can't understand whether our criticisms are being criticised from here or our criticisms are not accepted. What you do in the region -- whatever its location -- is the same for historical works in the region: everything is tried to be put into a format. Isn't there an original architecture of Diyarbakir? There is. How do you do sura now? You build it according to your own understanding. I'm saying the same thing. Now, you didn't get up here and contribute... President, I'm a deputy in a county -- not to complain -- but now one of my two friends has been deputized, and one of them has been punished. We want you to know that we're dealing with this and we're dealing with a lot of problems. You make dozens of calls when we're trying to put opposition on every commission, even here. Can we touch that sentence? Can we do this? We're not, the opposition doesn't have to think like you do. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0146par0338	Thank you, Mr. Akdoğan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0147par0339	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0146par0340	Here you go, Mr. Isen.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0147par0341	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0146par0342	But what did he say? So what's your request?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0147par0343	Sir, I'd like to answer a sentence about Hasankeyf.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0146par0344	Okay, for the record. Here, tell me where you're sitting.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0148par0346	See the latest version of Hasankeyf.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0149par0347	If you'd seen the last of it...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0148par0348	I think we should go see it together.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0149par0349	You just have to take your hand away.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0150par0350	I think the Commission should go there.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0151par0351	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment, sir... Here you go, Mr. Isen.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0152par0355	Dear President, I say this as an expert rather than an MP: an incident in Hasankeyf is an exercise in the achievement of the world's history of archeology.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0153par0356	Worst practice ever, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0154par0357	You're destroying it, no.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0152par0358	Almost half as much spent on cultural monuments in Turkey has been spent. We view the direct truth in this country as our cultural heritage, even the artifacts that don't belong to our civilization. The more people in the area Hasankeyf are mine, the more we think about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0155par0361	Thank you, Mr. Isen. Members of parliament, the General Assembly Research Commission, established in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, has completed a general discussion on the Council Research Commission, which shall be established under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution with the purpose to establish the measures needed for the preservation of existing Cultural Beings. Members of parliament, we are starting a general discussion on the Parliamentary Research Commission Report, which was established in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, with the reasons for the causes and measures of dependencies and measures to be made. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 558 rows. Investigating the causes of addiction and the measures to be taken, I read the demands on the Parliamentary Research Commission Report: on behalf of the groups; on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Denizli... They're still writing Denizlı, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0156par0373	Maybe it's a divine sign.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0155par0374	...Our Istanbul MP, Ilhan Cihaner, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, is Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran, acting on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Yilmaz Tezcan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first statement belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. İlhan Cihaner. Here you go, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0157par0378	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute everyone. So I begin by cursing the massacre that was to take place yesterday in Palestine as the bloody Monday. I'd like to take this opportunity to say something about this massacre. First of all, we need to be aware that the issue in Palestine is not only a momentary issue with Jerusalem, that America is moving its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, but an issue of imperialism. However, we need to see that the fight against imperialism can be found and achieved by a consistent attitude toward anti-empericalism and the peace and brotherhood of the peoples. So by applauding American missiles, by not saying Syria was bombed repeatedly by Israel, by ignoring the support given by Saudi Arabia when the United States hit Syria, by allowing Israel to remove the veton set to open representation at NATO headquarters, it is clear that this will not happen by continuing the trade agreement on the Israeli-Turkey pipeline, by paying their lobby, by transferring incredible resources to their lobby. First of all, there's a moral and conscientious problem. No matter which eye looks at the maps, if it assesses the difference between the boundaries of 1947, the borders of 1967, and the borders of today, it will see that there is a great injustice and remorse. But another injustice and remorse is also a case of the Palestinian issue, especially when the feudal Arab sheiks and oppressive regimes are judged in an abuse of their own people to protect their own backs. Therefore, as much as the Israeli government in Israel who carried out the massacre, I also condemn regimes that use this problem with crocodile tears and gestures to suppress and obtain their own people's consent, and I believe that one day all Arab peoples will wake up around an anti-emperical and peaceful attitude. There's not a lot to say about the original Research Commission's report, since the deadline is short, in fact, in such a short amount of time. First of all, due to his dominant election decision, due to the difficulty and intensity of his work, the Commission could not actually provide the work environment he was aiming for. In fact, a much more detailed study could be done because, as you can see in many countries around the world, we have a trend that is slowly increasing. So, aside from our side of the report, I'll just try to offer suggestions. First of all, during the work of the Commission, it has been discovered that a number of unknown structures under the name of the civil community organization have taken an incredible resource from the public, which cannot be measured, whether they have achieved success or not, as the process has been misused. That must be avoided. Other than that, we see that the public is unable to measure and evaluate drug use in any way, so every interested institution talks about success, how much drugs have been acquired, how many projects have been achieved, but there's no data on whether they've been successful or not. What we do know is that there's no way you can achieve success with things you can't measure or evaluate. First of all, the establishment of a joint undersecretary to combat addiction would be a very important step. In addition, the implementation of a number of NGOs and methods that have achieved very successful results, such as those of the volunteers who specialize in fighting addiction and the Narcotics Anonymous. Such institutions as the Union of Turkish Medicines and the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals need to be made an active part of these combat programmes. Unfortunately, we couldn't even get the Commission to listen to these institutions during the Commission. Neighborhood councils can be established. In many places in Turkey, we have seen the success of the fight against the drugs that neighborhood parliaments self-instructed. The damage reduction approach and other methods of combat... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Excuse me, Mr. President, I'd like to complete.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0158par0387	Here you are, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0157par0388	...we need to determine that there are no methods that exclude each other or that are alternatives to each other and see it as a phase of the struggle process. Besides, policies such as socioeconomic and some urbanization policies followed by Turkey, such as immigration policies, also increase drug addiction. There's a report that's been filed a few years ago. We see in this report that none of the measures predicted or proposed are actually being implemented. Hopefully this report won't be left in the dusty shelves, the suggestions of this report -- the details are in the report, because the time is short, so I can't see the details -- won't stay in the dusty shelves. There are a lot of proposed measures here, and they'll be implemented. In fact, since Parliament lacks an executive quality, perhaps it should be sent to the presidency in the coming period. I hope that these measures will be carried out there, and our young ones will be saved from this great tribulation that Turkey is facing. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0159par0393	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, it belongs to Mr. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0160par0397	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the National Movement Party in general talks on the report of the Council of Lawmakers, honorable citizens, substance abuse commission. I would like to extend my deepest respect and thanks to our leader and leader, the President of the State Garden, and to my group, the National Movement Party. I'd like to thank all members of the Council for the Anti-drug Investigation Research Commission, which I'm proud to be a member of, which has conducted studies to combat all kinds of substances and modern-day addictions. Looking back, our commission, which began its work from January 10, 2018, met more often and longer during the working hours, unlike traditional Parliament research commissions, due to the precision of the issue. The Commission, which began its work from the moment it was established, completed 15 meetings, 6 county visits, and 2 countries. I'd like to thank the Commissioner and his members because I think this important problem has been shown the importance it deserves. During the meetings we conducted as commissions, we matured the work by listening to over 100 people, including ministers, senior bureaucrats, academics, health care, rehabilitation, security and law enforcement forces. I'd like to thank all those who have come to the Commission to inform us and shed light on our work. Honourable lawmakers, honorable citizens; you know, we, the nationalist, archipelago community, are the people who have the biggest reaction to the contamination of the noble blood in our veins with drugs. The largest youth organisation in the world, the Ülkü January Education and Culture Foundation, has made a great effort to deal with the damage and addiction of drugs to the provinces, boroughs and even cities, and we sincerely thank them in your presence. I consider the fight against drug disease to be a sign of the unity and unity of all parties with the will of Parliament and with such a joint effort. Here, for the future and health of the Turkish nation, we are about to create a joint declaration to protect Turkish youth from drugs. This is a historic moment. The fact that the 26th Legislature will end in such a good work has also become history in order to show that the Turkish nation can work in a perfect harmony at the right time and under all circumstances. Under this roof, our whole goal is to ensure that all our citizens are not harmed by drugs. In our commission studies, we have expressed the following measures and measures: the production of drugs and drug raw materials must be monitored and registered in much more strict measures. All explanations and open gaps in the current system must be immediately identified and eliminated. Information centers must be restored to a more efficient and warm structure. The AMAMEM (AMAMEM) must increase the efficiency of the people and increase their capacity. Rehab is the most important part of the process. Therefore, a sufficient number of rehabilitation centres must be opened. After treatment, social fitness centers should also be involved. It is necessary for young people who are addicted to substance abuse to have a profession in these centers, to find a job, and to have access to opportunities and abilities that can adapt to social life. As part of drug trafficking and trafficking crimes, the assets of suspects and relatives must be frozen, and all unexplained assets of convicted and relatives must be used in the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts, and most importantly, the Turkish community should be informed about drugs from seven to 70. The measures needed to strengthen co-ordination between public institutions involved in the anti-drug process must be taken immediately. In all NGOs involved in treatment and rehabilitation, substance abuse should be sought and international and national standards must be set. The green moon continues to serve as a good example. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0161par0405	Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0160par0406	Finally, our children should be given effective communication lessons in the Ministry of National Education curriculum. In this way, it will be possible to develop the confidence of our children, the ability to say no, and to cope with problems. This report is worth a great deal of treasure to prevent substance abuse. They expressed with open heart that they would view this report as a key to all public institutions and organizations. With all my heart, I salute the General Assembly with respect and love for the good it brings to such a good deed. I pray that Ramadan will bring blessings, peace, and peace to the Turkish-Islam world.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0162par0409	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, it belongs to our Batman MP, Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran. Here you are, Mr. Basian.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0163par0413	Mr. President, before I discuss this commission report... A lot has been said about Palestine, but what was said about Palestine today has actually revealed a Middle Eastern reality. We discussed how effective our approach to problems can be to the Middle East, the honest and realistic attitude we receive. Our party spokesman Ayhan Bilgen has actually explained this in a very broad way. We've made a lot of statements here that there's no solution with reproach and envy, and this time it won't. The next time, in the 27th term, we will speak of Palestine here again. And today's the Kurdish language holiday. It is a festival that dates to 1932, dating back to the opening of a Kurdish newspaper in Hawar. While celebrating this holiday today, Kurds celebrated this holiday today, a Kurdish language chapter was opened at a university in Turkey, while many Kurdish-language associations have been closed on the basis of the OHR, which was declared after the July 15 coup attempt. Signs have been taken down by trustees to remind them of Kurdish language, where nothing about Kurdish language can be left anywhere in the city, and Turkey has now become a virtually forbidden language -- such as a period. I'm going to celebrate it in Kurdish and hope that Kurdish will be free again, and all languages will be free. Happy Kurd Language Day. Our language is our honor. Dear friends, now, we have the drug report, a very comprehensive 2,000-page report. There's actually some very remarkable information in this report. For example, from 2002 to 2016, he gave the number of people who died from drugs. In 2002, 9, 2003, 6, whatever, 920 people lost their lives in Turkey in 2016. Many reasons have been considered in this report: unemployment, lack of education, sociological reasons, psychological reasons. Now, it is said that drug use is especially in young people, and that the age limit is almost as low as primary school students. It is also said how to take the necessary precautions. There's also a job being attributed to the armrest, but we also see it in the region, and it's probably the same in many parts of Turkey, the law usually attacks the press statements we make instead of fighting drugs. For example, if you'd like, we can count the lawsuits and the intervention of the law enforcement unit that we've been taking on a drug-related march about us. Now, one reason is that, in fact, sociological and psychological reasons -- the conflict and political stalemate Turkey is involved in -- is that it actually leads young people to use more drugs every day. Because in Turkey, a model of youth is drawn: Apolytic youth, a model of youth that chants slogans, and young people should not become political about whatever addiction, whatever it is, whatever they depend on. Look, I'm not talking about young people who make slogans, it's not political youth. I'm talking about free young people who can really say anything about any subject of the country, who can concentrate on it. One way to create this free youth is to build free universities, free autonomous universities that we can't actually accomplish. If we don't make education free and autonomous, if we don't give young people a better quality, scientific education, and at the end of this education, if we don't provide young people with jobs, and just give them a slogan in the fields, in the squares. If we refer to a task like this, join him, from social media, among the trolls; insult him, this, this, and attack the opponents. This would be the case of youth if we put on a mission like this. Young people really want to exist within the system in Turkey. He wants to exist as a political youth. He just doesn't want to be an 18-year-old congressman in Congress, that's not enough. There'll be five 18-year-old lawmakers you'll bring to the House.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0164par0419	Here you are, Mr. Basian.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0163par0420	It's not enough for five 18-year-old MPs to come to this House. Young people need to have a say in every field, in every part of society, and they need to be involved in decision-making mechanisms of their own. Look, you broke up colleges, you didn't ask the students. What do you expect from this youth? You're trying to create a youth that you don't even allow them to make decisions about themselves. Again, as I said, young people struggle with unemployment all the time. Young people suffer the consequences of economic crises, the wrong political decisions you've made. Thousands of young people were not appointed in the process simply because of your security investigations. We can't explain it to them, so why don't you explain it to them? So, what are these kids gonna do? I'm not saying that to encourage it. If you really want a solution, I'm only saying it because you need more than your writing papers.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0164par0423	Here you are, Mr. Basian.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0163par0424	When these young people go to college, they think they can finish school and pay their debts. What do you expect from young people under so much psychological pressure? After all, dear friends, we're finishing the 26th term, the 27th term will begin. I hope and wish that the 27th term would really be a younger Parliament for the Parliament. What young people can say is that it becomes a mechanism where they can make decisions about themselves, and I hope and hope that -- I believe that women will also support -- I hope that there will be an assembly where there will be equal representation of men and women. That's the only way we can solve it, I think we can get through this process by saying words everywhere, as partners in the decision, by discussing, discussing our problems, by solving them. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0165par0428	Thank you, Mr. Basian. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mersin belongs to our MP, Mr. Yilmaz Tezcan. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0166par0432	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to share with you and the public our report on the Council of Research Commissions, which has been established at the very beginning of the screens by the worthy MPs, my esteemed citizens of Mersin, and our respected citizens, who have been suppressed by the number of 558 rows of drug addictions and the causes of addiction and measures to be taken. I salute you with respect, love, conversation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I begin, we have entered Ramazan month as of this evening. I especially congratulate you, your families, my Mercury citizens, our country, the Ramadanci of the entire Islamic world. And yesterday, unfortunately, I condemn and condemn this genocide against the Muslim people of Palestine, Jerusalem, Palestine, and Gaza. I pray for God's mercy to our Palestinian Muslim brothers, who are martyrs, and to heal the wounded quickly. He doesn't know the United States of America's decision about Jerusalem, and I say to Europe, the United Nations and the world, shame on them for being silent about this massacre and genocide. Congressmans, drug addiction is a chronic disease, and we see it as a disease that deals very closely with the body and its body and its health, causing serious problems. We have also compiled to our reports that the solution to this problem should be adopted, especially by multidisipliner approaches and a holistic approach. As a bridge country between the east and the west, I would like to share with you that natural drugs from the east go to Europe through the Balkans, and synthetic drugs spread from countries of the European Union, such as the Netherlands and Belgium, to our country and from there to the Middle East, and eventually Turkey is subject to a very serious drug terrorism in this regard. Our Research Commission was founded on January 10, 2018, a three-month working period, and on April 10, 2018, we completed our work very successfully. Our Research Commission has had a commission report that examines the causes, consequences, measures, and measures of both drug addiction and internet and technology addiction. While the commission report we have prepared contains extensive information in this area, it also points out measures that must be taken with results and suggestions. Dear MPs, I would like to thank Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, Mr İsmail Kahraman, who has made the most important changes in the fight against addiction in our country and has given the greatest support for the development of awareness in this matter, in your presence to our President, Mr. Bülli Yıldırım, our dear fellow MPs with their proposals in the Commission, the very valued members of the Commission, and our fellow experts. I also hope our report will provide an important solution to the fight against addiction in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, drugs are more dangerous than terrorism. Therefore, we have compiled the measures that need to be taken very broadly into our reports. I would also like to point out that a number of terrorist organizations such as PKK, ACK, TYD, YPG, PDY, DHKP-C are involved in drug trafficking and are clearly involved in their finances. Our report was printed with 558 rows, not 2,000 pages, but 422 pages. Our reports have been distributed to your rooms.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0167par0441	It's a joke. It's a joke.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0166par0442	Our reports -- of course, there's so much to talk about -- we've made some results and suggestions. Among these proposals are general proposals, suggestions on research, data collection studies, suggestions on the construction of the fight against drugs, the financial dimension of supply fighting drugs, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, proposals for counselling services, treatment services, the role of local governments, the role of civil society participation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Excuse me for a moment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0168par0445	Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0166par0446	Thank you, I'm tidying up. ...propossessions on the probationary liberalisation measure, proposals on prisoners and prisoners in criminal execution institutions, suggestions on media roles and communication strategies, proposals on written and visual media, new media and social media, proposals on communication campaigns, proposals on internet and technology addiction in a total of 21 topics. And of course, I don't want to share these solution proposals with you for a long time, because when we hosted these solution proposals, especially our ministers, our senior bureaucrats, when we listened to them, we talked about them in a very detailed way. And our reports, of course, we're done, we're done. At this point, I'd like to thank our fellow members, our fellow lawmakers, separately. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit03spe0169par0452	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. Members of parliament, a general discussion on the reasons for addiction and measures to be determined by investigating drug addiction and new types of addiction has been completed in the report of the Parliamentary Research Commission, which was established under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0169par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 99th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We are starting a general discussion on the Parliamentary Research Commission's report, which was established under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the problems of the Bonding Sector and the Grape Makers. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 559 rows. I'll meet the pledge demands of those who want a word on the Bondage Research Commission Report. On behalf of the groups, İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Edirne MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Okan Gaytancıoğlu on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. İsmail Bilen. The first word belongs to Mr. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, our İzmir MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0170par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group about the Commission for Assembly Research Report, which We've discussed with you, Mr. President, to investigate the problems of the Union Sector and the Grape Makers. I salute our General Assembly. Our country has about 6,000 years of cathartic culture, and we also have over 1,400 percent of the wealth of genotype vines, so we are one of the countries in the world that can be considered the motherland of vines. There are some statistics that the United Nations has established as the Food and Agriculture Organization, and we are still in the fiveth or sixth countries around the world, both in terms of the presence of a bond area and in terms of production. A sector with problems is in the fields of laces and grapes, but it also has a huge structure. If we can make a contribution at the solution point -- just like here, as in the presentation of the report during these talks -- economically, there could be serious jumps in this sector in the future. Our commission was established about four months ago, and it continued its work in a comprehensive manner, lawmakers. During these studies, significant assessments were made, and it may be useful to go over these findings again in this short period of time, but first of all, I'd like to bring to your memory that some things were done before 2002. For example, until 2000, agricultural sales co-ops and their troops really had some problems in both financial and commercial and administrative terms, which were governed by a weak co-op, but then, on 16 June 2000, they faced an effective arrangement in this area, with Act 4572 for the Union. Then there was a restructuring process. This restructuring process was conducted at the time with 16 units and 330 cooperatives connected to it. They also left debts for about 1.2 billion dollars in Support and Price Stability Fund. It was an important structure. IN 2000-2001, about 20,000 tons of seedless raisins were made available for TEKEL. These were then the means to provide some ease for the Tarish Grape Corps. Gene was adopted in 2001-2002 as an incentive to export grapes, and 50 dollars per ton. I'm telling you all of this for this: it's still a 200-page report by the Commission today, and our friends who actually made it have had some very serious contributions and efforts. First of all, I want to thank them. This report also said that agricultural products are licensed storage, which has previously been drafted by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in 2002, but unfortunately, since the elections have been held, that bill was not legalized in parliament. Then, in 2005, our Parliament adopted Law 5300, enforcing it. Again, products development projects with the Chamber Association have been conducted to develop product markets. These are really important studies. When we looked at some of the work that was expressed in our commission's work, some recolte work was done in co-ordinating the Izmir Trade Exchange, but this was later transferred to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. There, we also face a problem: during the 2017-2018 product season, the recolte estimate is around 310,000 tonnes. This is about the same level as the last season. However, for the year 2018, last month we faced some difficulties in the districts of Alaşehir and Sarıgöl in Manisa. There should be 20 to 25 clusters per vine, but we can also see that this falls to about 10-15, lawmakers. As an intervention agency, there's really a need for an institution and the price of an intervention because in 2017, the Earth crop office was on the market. It entered into the market as 4 lira/kilograms, and then a purchase of about 5,000 tons came into play. That's a good example. We also make some suggestions in this report, at the point where there is an intervention institution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll finish, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0171par0021	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0170par0022	In this regard, the Commission's proposals for solutions to the farming sector and the grape producers are of great importance, valued lawmakers. With these proposals, we also requested that our Group Deputy President, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, as well as his proposal for a solution be compiled into our report as an additional opinion. Some of these additional ideas, very briefly, if I may remind you, again, we've just said, we want to develop a licensed warehouse and create a stock company, we want to encourage the export of old grapes in order to reduce the supply of nuclear-free raisins, and, of course, the valuable lawmakers, we would like to ask for a resolving issue of hormones and residue in grapes. On this occasion, my respects to all of you again, and I wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0171par0025	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, it belongs to Mr. Müslüm Doğan. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0172par0029	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group regarding my party's Commission on Assembly Research Report, which will be set up on the grounds that the problems of the Bonding Sector and the Grape Makers are being investigated. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I speak, I strongly condemn the Israeli state's crimes against the Palestinian people. This massacre and genocide must be accounted for. I think it would be right for the government to suspend all contracts made with this state and sever diplomatic relations. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you about our view of agriculture, actually, on a couple of issues regarding this report. In fact, this report is an extremely valuable report, a very valuable report in print. I would especially like to thank all participants from here, especially my fellow lawmakers, who have been involved in every process of reviewing and gathering data through all the processes of the farming industry, and then coming to the writing stage. Dear MPs, in fact, today, especially the issues mentioned in this report, are also a problem with the AKP government's view of agriculture in Turkey. Almost all of the problems mentioned here, and if solution proposals were actually considered in the past, perhaps we would not have faced the severe negative aspects of today's agricultural policies. How do we look at agriculture, and I'd like to give you a little bit of information on that. Dear lawmakers, since the country's agricultural policy also shows no living life and production centers, especially since life here has not been revived, we are faced with today's heavy agricultural table because agricultural policies have not been developed accordingly, as they used to be. In the face of the policies that forced the villagers to migrate, we had to dominate policies that would keep the villagers in the field of production, but we did the opposite, we brought the villagers down from agriculture, we made them unproductive. If farmers could form peasant unions, if their work had not been prevented, the village's problems would have been on the agenda in a much better way. The independent and democratic structures of the cooperatives built by the villagers have been damaged, these institutions have been weakened by power, become dependent on power. The Co-operatives Act has been passed in favour of a lucrative agriculture. The co-operatives have been transformed into corporations, as it is known, and these structures must be immediately restored to their former position, so they must be transformed into democratic structures, and the law must be recommitted in favor of small farmers. The policies that should not be taxed on the gas and fertilizer they use in production entries for small farmers have also accelerated the collapse process because of the size of agricultural inputs. An animal breeder's free feeding ground has had a negative effect on the villager, when it should have been protected by meadows, grasslands, and pedestrians. These areas must be given back to the village immediately as common assets. Instead of a closed-door animalism, free pasture must find life again. Healthy food is right. Food production, processing and importing genetically modified elements must be strictly banned. The farmland must be protected, prevented from being used without purpose. The negative impact of industry and mining on farmland must be terminated. It is now inevitable that nature, water, can't be contaminated, and politics can't live. With the protection of the soil, production can continue, actually, ecology can be preserved. But this should also be the product of a political perspective and politics. Water and electricity should be given to small farmers for free. The electricity debts of the small manufacturer villagers should actually be wiped out. Minefields must be cleaned, livelihoods should be opened to agriculture, and proper treasure fields should be distributed to landless villages for the purposes of living agriculture. Today, cheap labor must be made available to the land of treasured land so that landless peasants, or displaced citizens, can live on their own land. Agricultural and forest lands must be redistributed, improved, and policies for the benefit of citizens in a way that the urban population can be both producers and consumers. The AK PARTY governments did exactly the opposite.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0173par0036	Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0172par0037	Instead of importing meat and dairy products, livestock should be supported and allow our people to consume natural meat and dairy products. The promise of support to stimulate the animal potential that we have detected is, in fact, focused on solving the problem, which is actually part of our program. As we've been saying for years, the solution proposals have unfortunately been made invisible by the EC PARTY government and have not been seen. All agricultural irrigation networks should be presented equally and fairly to all our citizens living in rural areas, but unfortunately the opposite has been done. Where every citizen is born, it must be removed from its perspective the reasons for seasonal farming. None of these issues are being heard, and by this policy, Turkey's agriculture has been destroyed, the data shows that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll make another statement, sir, if I may.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0173par0040	Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0172par0041	The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) announced that global food prices increased by 8 per cent in 2017. However, according to this organisation's data, dairy products increased by 15 per cent in 2016 and meat prices increased by 16 per cent compared to the previous year. In our country, it is known by my side that the remaining year used various methods, particularly imports, to intervene in food prices. The AK PARTY government has set out to reduce or reset customs duties in many products such as red meat, grain, and produce to reduce food prices. While we're trying to balance the price with imports, the record levels here have brought us a new stalemate. Importing food products has had a negative effect on farmers and producers. As you know, in many areas production has been reduced or the manufacturer has been negatively affected. Dear lawmakers, I consider this report by our Commission to be very valuable, that it is a savings, especially that the National Assembly, by making a report like this, is very important and valuable, but I would like to point out here that it should be considered a proposal that would affect the agricultural policy in Turkey, rather than remain on dusty shelves, as our fellow MP has just stated. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0174par0045	Thank you, Mr. Doğan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Edirne belongs to Mr. Okan Gaytancıoğlu. Mr. Gaytancioglu, we missed you. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0175par0050	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, a good report, good work, and we've contributed. I'd like to give you some information. 90% of the grapes are produced in Manisa. We're talking about $4 billion for the Manisa economy, $450-500 million for the Turkish economy, so it's a problem product that should be without problems. Why? Thanks to the AKP, they have serious problems. We're talking about areas of bond where 80 to 85% are in Manisa. Manisa is a very good place for agriculture. There was cotton, thanks to them, and they finished, and now we take cotton from Greece, and we take it from Kyrgyztan, and we take it from Egypt. There was tobacco, they finished tobacco, we import tobacco. You sold TECEL, cigarette factories, with tobacco in stock, and now the grapes. I'm afraid what happens to nuts happens to grapes, too. How a foreign monopoly now collects nuts, tomorrow comes a company from England, collects all the grapes from Manisa, and puts their own brand, so please listen to our views. We've written a little bit of opposition here, but the solution is that if you continue in power, there's got to be a new understanding. Well, we have the advantage of grapes, but why would it end up like Ferrero? Because we see things. We're already saying this is going to happen in grapes, just as chickenery has become a cartel industry, as the cartels have become the hands of imperialist companies, as other companies, foreign firms, as the nuts have become a monopoly. So, if it's okay, why was the research commission set up? That's good. The price of grapes was $6 in 2016, and last year it fell under $4, or even under that. Will the Republican People's Party stand idle? He went straight to Manisa, picked up the manufacturer, held a grape rally in Alaşehir. Tens of thousands of farmers have arrived. So there's a problem. What was the problem? It's a cost of around $4. We've got the research commission, we've got the agencies. It's always under $4.00. Mr. President, the cost is less than $4, right? So the farmer makes money, doesn't he? And we said no, no. Because 80 percent of the fields in Manisa are mortgaged. If it's all right with you, why would the farmer mortgage his farm, why would he try to sell his farm, why would he have to go through a rough patch? Six liras of grapes these days, but is there any grapes left in the manufacturer? It didn't, because you're the one who destroyed the institutions that could regulate the market. Earth crop office, what's his mission? Buying grain. I mean, what's grain? It's wheat, barley, oatmeal, rye, corn, rice. You're getting nuts in the land crop office, you're getting grapes in the land crop office. Why? You've shut down all the institutions, disabled all the institutions. So let's just... if you'd been a little stronger with the Meat and Fish Foundation, Turkey wouldn't be talking about animal imports right now. You're trying to balance the markets with very few stores, and you can't do that. Why? Because you don't have a serious agricultural policy, your agricultural policy is one day at a time. You're trying to import whatever the price has gone up. You can't think of a manufacturer; let's support the manufacturer, let's make the manufacturer laugh a little bit more, put some more money in his pocket, you don't have that logic. Hence, we also have serious problems with a product that needs to be smooth. Is $500 million less? And the dollar doesn't stop, so it's $4.50. So in a product where we're going to make a very serious exchange, you're going to give up on foreign monopolyes. What happens next year if you leave with that logic? Again, you're going to assign yourself to the Earth crop office? Can you find it, do you have a storage unit in the land crop office that can regulate the market? Let us strengthen Tarish. Who's Tarish? It's an agricultural sales cooperative union founded by manufacturers. When we need to strengthen institutions such as the TRACIA Union, TARISTS, PRODUCTION, FESSIONALITY, you're defunctioning them. So let him do his job, buy from the market, balance the market a little bit, but you're doing the opposite. Look, I'll tell you the solution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll tell you the solution. The solution will come under the rule of the Republican People's Party. It's very clear. Why? Because it's strategic. You want to increase that money in a product you make money on, you want to share it with your farmer. We'll set the price a year in advance. Why? Because the price is so obvious that the manufacturer needs to know what to gain, how to connect with the exporter. You'll say: "The exporter will also win this job. We are not against capital, but if the manufacturer doesn't earn money, if the exporter doesn't earn money, then our product will be wasted." Look, we sell the ton for 170-180, the Americans sell it for $340, which means they know what they're doing. How do they know? They're branded. We're not doing it. We'll announce the prices a year early. And we're going to give it to the farmer in the grape, and we're going to give it to the farmer in the other products without the diesel and the VAT, and you'll see, we'll do it when we're in power. We'll erase the farmer's debt, his interest. You produce for the farmer, brother, you are our master... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0176par0061	Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0175par0062	Ataturk called you the lord of the militia. What are you guys doing? The master is in a very difficult situation; he can't speak up, he's afraid, Aman, if I make a noise, if I make a slogan, they can put me in jail. No, he'll make farmers, he'll walk around like a master, he won't owe money, he won't ask for fertilizer, he'll know when to dump the fertilizer. We have to get agriculture to meet the farmer in technical ways, and if we don't, we won't succeed. We can't solve everything by import. Look, the population in the world is increasing; there are now 7 billion people, 9 billion people. The soil supply is the same, the water supply is the same. We have land, we have water, we have farmers, we have sun, but you can't rule. Let the rulers come, let them do the work, give the farmer his value; let the peasant be the master of the nation again, let the bank be the master of the nation, let the bank not walk around, let the cards close, and not open the other, that's our problem. If we want a productive Turkey, a right-sharing Turkey, we have to support the manufacturer. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0177par0066	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, it belongs to our Manisa MP, Mr. Ismail Bilen. Here you go, Mr. Knower.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0178par0070	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group over the Commission's Commission for Assembly Research Reports on the Investigation of Precautions to Be Taken Investigated by the Problems of the Bonding Sector and the Grape Producers. I hereby salute your high council. Before I begin my words, I congratulate the month of Ramadan where we have entered, and call upon the Lord God to bless all mankind and our country and our citizens. Yes, I also curse the atrocities of Jerusalem, where I pray for God's mercy to our fellow Muslims, who are martyrs, and for the wounded, and for the immediate healing. I want to thank Mr. Okan and the other ministers. I'd like to thank our experts, our academics, our employees, our technical staff, who are in charge of our commission. With the number of 559 rows sent to your rooms...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0179par0075	He didn't come to us.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0180par0076	He didn't come to us.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0178par0077	If he didn't show, he'll come. In this published and distributed brochure, we are pleased to discuss the situation, the position, the position, the position, the manufacturer's expectations of us -- in short, all of our shareholders' common opinion, our report, and hopefully we will share them with both you and the relevant institutions. Yes, I'd like to say a few words on the report, but I'll have to answer part of what Mr. Okan said. Dear friends, we have grown to the extent of the 70 percent in Manisa -- especially in the 1980s. The biggest problem with the industry is that from time to time, supply surplus is due to the situation in the harvest season. They mentioned it here last year. There has been an intervention in the market with the Office of Earth Coins and the orders of our Prime Minister and our government -- especially thanks to our Minister of Finance. The price of grapes, reduced to 3.200 liras, quickly entered the recovery process, up to 5,200 liras, and today around 6,000 liras. We never pressured any agency representative at the cost point. There are costs, there are costs, and in our report, we wrote them down one by one. When we called all of its shareholders -- close to nine -- here in our Commission, where we held meetings in about eight provinces, what all of our shareholders wanted, what they wanted, was that there was an institution that would intervene in more times. And since there was state support here, it was especially enough that our land crops office would be kept under state security, and therefore, with our President and Prime Minister's instructions, when the Department of Earth Results came in, the market was resilienced, and none of its shareholders did any harm. Dear friends, until today, the price of kilograms was about 85 cents, until the AK PARTY came to power, and today it's worth $1.70. Is it possible to sell more? Of course it's possible; we've also noted that in our reports, and we've recommended it to the relevant institutions. Like the Land Equipment Office, such as an institution that will intervene in time to restore or promote the market, such as the agricultural loan co-opters, the Tarish Grape Association, which is the manufacturer's union in our region, can be given this task, which can be carried out by him, and therefore it may be possible to bring the price of grapes up to 2 dollars and 50 cents back to those figures, as long as we can get it into action mechanisms in our report. With the Department of Earth crop coming in, we've given the market a trust and a guarantee to the private. You're not going to have your grapes, you're not going to have that price, and at the bottom of that price, if you have to put grapes on the market, when we say we're ready to buy your grapes, the poor person prevents you from putting this grape on the market -- what we call "exploration." As for our support for the agricultural sector, dear friends, I've been a lawyer in the past, and I've been a lawyer for the Agriculture Bank, the agricultural loan co-ops. At the time, our farmer's loan from the agricultural and agricultural bank was used by the contractor... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0181par0085	Here you go, Mr. Knower.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0178par0086	The return rate of loans from agriculture and Agriculture Bank -- loans -- was 35 per cent relative to loans, 40 per cent at the maximum; today's collection rate is 97 per cent, compared to 98. So compared to past periods, the farmer has been able to pay off his debt. So far, the agricultural sector has been supported by around 150 billion dollars during the AK PARTY administrations. Agriculture is one of the painful sectors of the entire world, not just Turkey, but when the AK PARTI came to power, agriculture was restructured, planned, mechanised and industrialized. Our total exports of agriculture were $3.5 billion, up to $16.5 billion. The country did not regain land, and the current AK PARTI of farmland increased production and lower cost as a result of policies followed by the AK PARTI rulings and Agriculture Ministry. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope you'll show me the leniency you've shown Mr. Okan.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0182par0091	Is it time or is it time?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0178par0092	Go on.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0182par0093	Here you go, pick it up, please.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0178par0094	Precious friends, therefore, a serious support for agriculture during the AK PARTY administrations. As of this year, our support will be around 15 quadrillion liras. So the unimaginable has been achieved. So, are the problems over? No, it's not, but the problems have been reduced, minimised, and finally -- as I said -- supportive of our agricultural policies -- especially with our President and Prime Minister's instructions, the Office of Earth Mahullars has been activated, and there's been a balance in the market. Yes, let me say good-bye to you with these words. I hope we come and see it next season, maybe we don't. If there are any friends we've broken, I wish them the same. I pray that the elections will bring blessings to our country, to the world of mankind, and to the oppressed nations that hope for us. I salute you.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0183par0098	Thank you, Mr. Knower.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0184par0099	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0183par0100	Mr. Gaytancioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0184par0101	Sir, I'd just like to make a statement to make it into the reports.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0183par0102	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0184par0105	Now, Mr. Knowen has mentioned the collection rates. Look, the foreign debt of the Republic of Turkey is constantly increasing. Why? Because he pays interest, he borrows money, he pays interest all the time. High collection rate -- our Minister of Finance laughs there -- yeah, that's right, we're paying our debts, and the farmer pays his debt, but what does he do? He gets it from a bank, he goes to another bank. Is that a good thing now? The farmer's debt is rising. When you came to power, it was $1 billion, the farmer's total debt was close to $100 billion; there are private banks in it, public banks, foreign banks. Well, we've done the same configuration nine times, why don't we do the same configuration in the farmer's debt, erase the interest, pay off the principal?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0185par0106	We did it.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0184par0107	We're not.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0185par0108	We did it, we did it.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0186par0109	We're doing it.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0184par0110	The electricity money...
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0186par0111	Back in the day, the farmer couldn't borrow money.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0184par0112	Okay?
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0187par0113	That's the point, Mr. Gaytancioglu. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0184par0115	There is one other thing: agriculture has been greatly supported during the AKP period. There is a law, obey the law, then give support, and let us kiss your forehead.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0188par0116	We're giving it above the law.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0184par0117	No, you're giving me half.
tbmm-2018-05-15sit04spe0189par0118	Well, thank you, lawmakers. Members of parliament, general talks have been completed on the report of the Parliamentary Research Commission, established under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine measures to be taken by investigating the problems of the vineyard sector and grape producers. Congressmans, the issues on our agenda are complete. As of tonight, I would like to congratulate you on the blessing of the Islamic world, the unity and unity of our nation, the salvation of the oppressed and the peace and the peace of all mankind. Congressmans, in accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday, May 16th 2018, tomorrow at 14 p.m., to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
