tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough numbers for a meeting, and we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, according to the programme, we will continue talks on the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. Commission? He's in position. The last joint was adopted as Article 5 of the Executive Budget Law Proposal of 2019. Transfer, add, reset and abort operations ADADDE 6- (1) Under the general budget under which public administrations and private budgets (01), (03), (05), (06), (07), and (09) will be placed in the budgets and budgets of the budgetary budgets between the budgets and the budgets of the budgets in the public budget, to ensure the use of surplus funds to ensure that other public administrations can be used in the care of the grants in the year, or to ensure that the grants are used in priority services of other public administrations, or (07), (06), (08) and (09). 2) The public administration, which will provide services from public administrations under the general budget, is authorized to transfer funds regardless of the budget of the administration that will run the service during the year, regardless of the functional classification distinction. (3) Public administrations under the general budget are authorized to transfer their funds to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget as part of the 10/7/2018 presidential decision for the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. (4) The National Ministry of Defence, the General Command of the Brigadier General Staff, the Security Directorate and Coast Guard Command are the institutions concerned with transferring the grant between the functions, if a function of supply and supply services, which should be run from one centre, should be conducted by another function. (5) The budgetary budgetary administrations and regulatory institutions (B) are authorized by the presidency to add public administrations to the current or new budgets of the administration and institutions, which exceed the net financing amount mentioned on the table marked (F). In 2018, the special budgetary administrations that received Treasury assistance were used to provide funding for the budgets for the budgets of the budgets of the budgetary budgets for the budgets of the budgets for capital expenditures and the budgets for the budgets of the budgets of the budgetary budgets, the implementation of the 2019 Year Programme, the Coordination and Surveillance Commission, or the need for funding of new projects is available in accordance with the decision. (6) Source transfers between public administrations under the general budget are made by transfer of funds. Other resource transfers between administrations and institutions under the central management budget are carried out through due process. The sums collected in response to these transactions come to a table marked (B) by the relevant public administration, while on the other hand (A) are registered to the tablets marked. (7) The national Ministry of Defence, the General Command of the gendarmes, Coast Guard Command and Security Directorate budgets (e.g. private grants and 3.9 Treatments and Funeral Expenses) with the economic code.03.1.1. 01 Security Directorate Security Services Investments (except for the structures involved in the operation) (except for the financing costs and capital costs) the part of which are not spent within the year to ensure the continuity of the service to these arrangements is to save a transfer to the budget the following year, not to exceed 30 per cent of the budget allocations assigned to the budget. B) The second joke of Article 21 of Tourism Instigation Law, dated 12/3/1982, is 21.01.36 of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget. 00 and 21.01.36. Parts of the grants, which were not used to promote the economic code (03) under the 63 institutional code, were used to save credits for the same arrangements in the following year's budget, C) 40.08 of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency budget. 33. 00-01. 4. 1. 00-2-07. Parts of the budget that are not spent on the grant, which is part of the plan one, are to record a transfer to the same budget in the following year, ) 26.01.31 of the Ministry of Industry and Technology budget. 00-04. 8. 1. 02-1-07. 1, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 04-1-05. 4, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 06-1-05. 4, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 07-1-05. 4, 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 08-1-05. 4 and 26.01.31. 00-04. 8. 1. 09-1-05. Parts of the funds that are not spent on the four structures will be recorded in the same arrangements of the next year's budget, D) 12.01.41 of the Treasury and Finance Ministry budget. 00-04. 1. 1. 00-1-07. 2, 12:01.41. 00-04. 1. 1. 00-1-05. 6 and 12.01.41. 00-01. 2. 1. 00-1-08. Parts of the grants that were not spent on the two structures are to record a creditable grant to the same arrangements of the next year's budget. (e) Police Department General's budget.03.1.1. 01 Security Directorate Security Services Investments, which are not spent on investment grants under the function, are to save a grant for the same budget in the following year, f) The amount collected to save private income according to its relevant legislation, shall be used by the budget budget (B) in order to use the budget's budget for the purposes set out in these legislation, to save revenues on the marked ruler (B) and to transfer funds that are not spent within the year, including those who have passed on (2018) to the budget, and to set the basis for the transactions and funds under these provisions, and to set the basis for the following year's budget. The President is in charge. Dear friends, Mr. Fatma Hassan Toufiq, chairman of the International Friendship Group in Tanzania-Turkey, who is visiting our Parliament, and the delegation with Tanzania's Ambassador to Ankara, Elizabeth Kiango Kiondo, are now following our General Assembly. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Applause]] Dear friends, as you know, there was a matter meeting yesterday. According to the Civil Code, ten minutes each on behalf of the groups and on behalf of the Commission, two members are promised five minutes each, with a total of ten minutes of QA on the matter. There are demands on the 6th article. The first request is from Ankara MP Koray Aydın (PARTI) on behalf of the PARTI Group. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0002par0042	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on Article 6 of the 2019 Budget Law Proposal. I salute your high council. The sixth clause of the proposal includes a series of important issues, such as the transfer of budgetary funds to the budget of the Treasury and Finance Ministry, and the transfer of some funds that have not been used in its year. Most importantly, Mr. President is being appointed to determine the procedures and foundations of all these issues. Dear friends, we've said many times before: democracy is the principle of dissolution of forces. Legislature, execution, and judgment will balance and oversee each other. The presidential government system has destroyed the principle of separation of forces, almost all powers in one hand. The 6th article, which we discussed, has again single - handedly the ability to regulate and spend on many matters. Mr. President will use the back-up grant as much as he likes to use it, and he will have the authority to transfer it to the budgets of institutions and organisations. How, though, will it be inspected if budget funds are being used properly? Can the Court oversee spending on behalf of the Turkish Grand National Assembly? In the past few months, we've seen a number of court reports that have been reported to the press that people's money has been embezzled in an incredible way and in ways. The first act of power was to remove those who filed this report. The vice president in charge of the Court's audits has been removed from his post in a hurry. Not enough, the Court in charge of the control of municipalities has also been relieved of its post as head of the 15th Group. The municipalities of the government are throwing people's money away, and the government expects the nation to save money in return. The government is not saving money from power. It says, "He spends people's money on palaces, palaces, palaces, the dawn, and, frankly, he wastes it, but he waits on the citizens to save money. The 2019 budget we're interviewing is also called the budget. I've already told you, the settlement is only expected from the citizen. Look, the last example that we're living in is being re-proclaimed for a 66-car luxury car tender that's been cancelled twice before. Our employee, our officer, our student, has been affected by a 20-30-cent raise in public transportation fees, and has been worried about a zero-mile luxury vehicle while thinking about land. Thanks to you, the power of our citizen's purchase is already on the floor. Turkey is the 29th among 37 countries in Europe in terms of the ability to buy citizens. What part of the economy remains our prisoner. The unemployment figures were announced yesterday, and unemployment was 11.4 as of September. One out of four young people are unemployed. The unemployment has become chronic in your timeline. Again, industrial production figures were announced yesterday, industrial production dropped 5.7 per cent year-on-year as of October. Even the secondary press and economists described these figures as a severe decline. Even the industrial production numbers you interfered with actually deny the latest growth figures. I'd like to share another striking data. In the last few months, thanks to you, there's a term that almost all our citizens have learned. What is this concordato? According to the Turkish Language Association dictionary, a bankruptcy agreement is, in other words, an agreemented bankruptcy. A few days ago, the minister described the grave painting himself, declaring 846 businesses a concordato. You know, a month ago, it was 356. Even when the number 356 was announced, the economies said it was over a thousand, and I personally agree. When we think of these numbers as being explained by covering, we can see more realistic how Turkey is facing a wave of bankruptcy. Dear friends, the bankrupt credit numbers are also alerting. The sunken credit market went up to 41 billion euros. There are 3.5 million files waiting for the debt collection. To collect their debts, banks sell the bankrupt loans to increasing assets management companies. And these companies are on top of the citizens who are already in trouble. The executive files set a record, there's no room in the courthouses. Now, it's the last month of the year. The execution file that came to the courthouse in 2018 was based on 8.5 million. That number is even greater than the population of most countries in Europe. What a country it's become! What about the inflation numbers? Inflation figures, you call them down, are more than 20 in TÜFE, and more than 40 in TEFE. Besides, how are we supposed to believe in explained inflation figures? Because now that Turkey has become so unbelief in the numbers explained, there is a great lack of faith in it. Now, the government has made a change in the legislation, inflating the income per person overnight like a balloon. Again, the product basket used in inflation calculations, which did not like inflation numbers, was changed. The head of the TİİK Vice President, who announced the numbers that upset them, was also dismissed. Dear friends, such a situation does not happen anywhere in the world. If two days later he can be deposed, there's no need to understand where the country came from. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if this budget bill cannot be audited by the government and the President, then there's no point in saying that we have a subsidized grant. None of our motions to investigate the victims of our nation's injuries are accepted. AS A GOOD PARTY, you make the same motions, we support them. We say, "Ooh," and he's not accepted. Our question proposals are either answered without an answer or given inattentive responses as if they're being mocked. Apparently, these control roads are blocked, and the one-man regime is now in full swing. Unfortunately, I'm sorry to say, that's where Turkey comes in. All that was missing was that spending power was only available, so today, with this budget law proposal, it will be implemented. But I will cut off the hand of my daughter Fatima, even if it be the hand of my daughter. Today, in our country, there's also a dollar-zam relationship that tells jokes mercy. Dollars go up, raises go up, but they don't fall down. And power follows this twisted order. There's a height from needle to thread, unemployment is through the roof, industrial production is down, loans can't be paid, companies are going bankrupt, but we're growing up. There's nothing wrong with us. Mr. President, who has raised his salary by 26 per cent, is ignoring our offer to raise the salary of minimum wage, officer, pensioner and worker at the same rate. There is a crisis in Turkey, dear friends, and the father of the crisis. What you want to do is to keep the crisis going until the end of March, to put people to sleep, to deceive people, and then to fall on people with raises, that's the truth. And it is our duty to warn the citizen of today. Mr. President, good lawmakers, where we come from today, there is no justice in our country and there is no development in the rule of the Justice and Development Party. The government, which is busy enriching and improving its followers, does not hear, see, or feel the cries of workers, workers, employees, merchants, farmers, pensioners, and all the victims who are crushed under the raises, under the job and vaccine. Dear friends, it's unfair not to hear this cry, it's unfair, and it's a clear injustice to the public.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0003par0061	Mr. Aydın, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0002par0062	I'll put you through, Mr. President. The power had earlier defined its own definitions in election times, such as the age of the apprentice, the time of its generosity, and the time of its finesse. Now that they've forgotten those times, they're behind us, but we remind them. At this point, this period of power will go down in history as a period of increase and persecution. Dear friends, with these thoughts and feelings, we wish our budget of 2019 to be good for our country and our nation, and my greetings on behalf of the Good PARTY Group.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0004par0066	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Sivas MP Ahmet Özyürek. Here you go, Mr. Özyürek. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0005par0071	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 6 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, addition, revoking and aborting operations. I hereby salute our beloved nation and the General Assembly who follow us. In general, the material is seen to have a purpose for efficient and efficient use of funds. Public finance is vital in terms of macroeconomic problems. Budget discipline requires public savings and efficient use of available resources. In this regard, the management of austerity measures and funds envisioned in the budget is important. According to the budget of 2019, savings are seen to be made from public investment pens rather than public administration. However, it will ensure that public administrations can be used to provide more funding for other public administrations during the year, or that the funds are used in priority services, and that it will be effective in carrying out services quickly. In terms of the allocation of resources and rational rational use for the purpose, the transfer of funds to public administration budgets or the reserve budget of the Treasury and Finance Ministry will also increase domestic savings. As it is known, the first source of economic growth is fixed capital investments, and the second source is increasing efficiency across the country. More production, more exports, more jobs and more revenues need more investments, and the way to do that is primarily to increase domestic savings, and also to use public service in the efficient and productive areas of both our resources and our resources from abroad. Here, the public authority must direct the allocation of resources correctly, analyze priority and need pens correctly. In this regard, it is important to have an effective management and transfer of the collection of funds among public administrations. Again, the public administration, which will provide services from public administrations under the general budget, is authorized to transfer funds regardless of the budget of the administration that will run the service during the year, regardless of the functional classification distinction. The transfer of funds, regardless of a functional distinction, is also important in order to prevent delays and setbacks in the execution of services. In the second part of the basis for this minimum law, the Office for Public Finance Transformation and Change will be established within the Treasury and Finance Ministry in order to ensure efficient use of public resources, lower costs and expenditures, improve the quality of revenue. This office will provide permanent improvements to public finances through the Savings and Development Programme, which will be prepared and followed. The work of this office and the public sharing of the planned Savings and Development Programme, the emergency and priority transfers, and how to do it between institutions. It is also necessary that special budgetary administrations receiving Treasury assistance in 2018 will be used to implement the 2019 Year Programme, Co-ordination and Surveillance Commission in accordance with Coordination, or to provide effective use of savings, which are subject to the budgets of public administrations under the general budget to finance the expenditures of the Capital Transfers. Dear lawmakers, agriculture is an important part of the Budget Act. For example, agriculture and animalism have a huge economic impact on the sectoral distribution of labor in Sivas. In Sivas, 66.5% of the active population is employed in the agricultural sector, and 54.7 percent are women. One of the most important problems of our farmers is that they can't use discounted agricultural loans. The Agriculture Bank must also respond immediately to the demands of our farmers' loans. In addition, Agriculture Bank branches cut between $260 and $750 for credit questions, whether a loan comes out or not, during or after our farmers' loan application. Without credit, our farmers apply to private banks and use loans at 25% interest. It increases the cost of our farmer and weakens his power. It is imperative that our farmers' agricultural costs be reduced in this regard. In addition, in terms of livestock, the Beef and Milk Association Sivas Integrated Facility must begin its activities as soon as possible. Editorial measures must also be taken regarding the price of bait. In addition, an effective work is also needed for the branding and marketing of the products produced in Sivas. Promotion and marketing of local and regional products are as important as their production and the value of employment is vital to development. Our old Sivas Numune Hospital, whose foundation is the same age as our republic, has become unable to serve quality as a day goes by. In the beginning of these problems, the return revenues of physicians and other health workers were reduced; however, only 59 physicians of our hospital, with 225 specialists in its staff, were divided between physicians by the contracting staff of 4924. This distinction has led to income injustice. In order to find a solution, all physicians working within our hospital must be put into contract status immediately. Sivas has been described as the 5th district of the Ministry of Health in the development ranking. Although other surrounding provinces are the fourth district of our province, it is known that all physicians working in these provinces have been given a contract staff. 93 doctors have left our Sivas sample hospital, and only 53 doctors have taken their place. We haven't had an adult gastroenterology specialist in our hospital for a year, and we haven't had a nuclear medical expert in eight months. There are no children's cardiologists or children's intensive care services. Our services are closed. Again, there are very important places for tourism in our Sivas. In particular, we have Fish Springs in the Kangal district. The Social Security Agency is also funded by the Ministry of Health to provide services for our citizens, but these funds are very inadequate. Eczema and psoriasis have a really important place in human psychology because it's psychologically affecting you and it's losing your self-esteem. In our Sivas, we may have a unique Sivas Gangal Fish Spa in the world. We're expecting psoriasis patients and eczema patients there, but we're also telling our Ministry of Health and Social Security that our citizens' budgets are not available, they can't go there. That's why I specifically ask for a improvement there. Again, there is an underground wealth in our Sivas. We have to make sure that the mining deposits in our Kangal, Divrik, Zara, Yıldızeli and other counties are open to business. But our entrepreneurs who apply here are having trouble getting CED reports during their registration or application there. When the reserve there is removed, it will cover Sivas (Sivas) employment deficits and contribute to the national economy. But our investors are being inconvenienced, and they're not getting out of the way. There's a lot of businessmen out there looking for us. There's no work in Sivas, there's no food, please, let us at least open the way to our mines, our businessmen who came to invest there. We'd like to open up the front of the bureaucracy as soon as possible and get the license and other work permits. I wish the budget to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute the Veterans Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0006par0084	Thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu... Here you are, Mr. Mulecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0007par0089	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, good morning to you all. I salute you all with respect and love. Now, we're talking about the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and I'm thinking about talking about the 6th Amendment, but, of course, as you can imagine, I'm not going to talk about the 6th article, because what does the 6th article say? It sets up a mandate that budget grants can be moved as requested by the President. Well, that's the way it is. So if we don't give it to him, the President won't use it? Of course, we can say that giving authority to the president is essentially giving authority to the government, but, as Mr. President's advisor Mehmet Ukurum said, the President is in fact a one-man government, so, of course, he has to be called President. Now, friends, of course I'm going to say a few words from a critical place. For one thing, there's one thing I find difficult to understand in our discussions with friends on the Commission, and I'd like to share with you. There's a sense that the Justice and Development Party has been in power for 16 years, and you say that they've done incredible work, that they've taken national income per capita, and you're talking about it like a great legend, but they're very important friends where you're looking. I mean, look, I'll give you some numbers. Turkey had a national income of $3,660 per person when you came to rule in 2002, and you raised it to 10,547. So, of course, this is a big success, really, but when we look at what other countries have done in the same time, for example, let's talk about Brazil as another country: in Brazil, in 2002, the national income per person was $2.820, and in 2017 it came to $9.821, which is about the same growth. In 2002 it came to $2,579 per person; in 2017 it came to 14.402; in Costa Rica, for example, $4,062 in 2002; in 2017 it came to $11.631. Guys, what you see as success, it's not really your thing. Of course, I'm not underestimating, and I admit that you have your own contributions, but this has already led to the development of countries with certain economic conjunctures of the world, and you've walked this path. And I'll tell you something even more obvious, in terms of income per person -- these are IMF figures -- in 2002, Turkey was ranked 72, and now you know what number? He's ranked 67. So you've passed five steps to Turkey. Is that a success? Yes, it's a success. But that's what we did, that's what we did. It's not possible to say, friends. I'll tell you this: the mistakes Turkey's Justice and Development Party has made regarding economic management in Turkey, of course, in longer times, we need to talk longer. I'll tell you again by going through other numbers. For example, I can tell you that when you bought it in 2002, of course, you know, there was an IMF program designed by Kemal Dervis, which was fiscal discipline, which was, when you said this, you got high proportional growth. Clearly, in Turkey's historical development, growth of around 7 per cent should be seen as successful, but the growth rates below 7 per cent do not necessarily have to be seen as important. Now, when we looked like this, 2008, you know, was the year of the debate that we were touched and not worth it. In 2009, our economy is shrinking by 4.8%. This is reasonable because there is such a crisis in the world, and if not in 2008, he shot us in 2009. You've captured 9.2 percent in 2010, it's a success, you've achieved 8.8 percent in 2011, which is success, but after that, friends, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016; all very bad performances; about 2,2-4. In 2017, however, you received a figure of 7.4. This, of course, seems to be a success, but behind this success -- as you all know -- there were VAT discounts, there was a sector structure that was funded from the Credit Guarantee Fund, and so 7.4 was captured, and as of this year, I'd say we're going to crash. So without further ado, I'd like to say from here, friends, that you're leading badly, accept that. So you can't manage the economy -- and I don't think you can manage the politics -- because that's what the numbers say, and I'm not saying -- these are numbers from TİK. Now, why can't you manage? About the answer to the question -- because I have so little time left -- but after 2011, friends -- that's the year that these numbers deteriorated -- your chemistry has failed.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0008par0095	Gotta look global.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0007par0096	You're confused about how to manage the economy and Turkey, and you think you can fix everything by centralizing it. You think you can get out of it by centralizing everything, in a sense -- let me tell you, I'm not kidding -- everything. This isn't happening, friends, because we've known since Ibn Haldun, that as societies become central, they become fragile, and Turkey has become fragile, both economically and politically. I've got three minutes left, so I'll say a few more things faster for him. Now, Mr. Secretary made statements yesterday, and he said: "We're taking serious steps regarding inflation." Tax losses and fugitives will be effectively fought, and an institution will be established for that. Friends, the reason society does not pay taxes or stay off the books, as you might think, is not because of the economy -- Turkey couldn't discuss this properly -- because people are afraid of the state, but they don't trust the government, friends don't want to pay taxes to the government, you all know that. The problem, therefore, is not the creation of such an institution; the problem is that you are not in decisions and attitudes that allow the state to be truly an organization that is adopted by society. Now, when I look at it, I'm afraid I don't see it. And let me tell you something, you might say that this is sometimes discussed, but friends, there's a saying called the perception operation, which is very often used. But in order for you to operate perception, you have to have the tools to operate perception, which, for example, we don't, but you have a lot. You have almost all the media in Turkey, and so, because of having this media, Mr. Secretary, we're talking very freely about controlling inflation, foreign currency rates like this. But all the measures taken are palliative measures, temporary measures, not the steps necessary for Turkey's economy to improve, they're friends, but they're counting on this, Mr. Secretary: There's A Haber, and we can control a lot of TVs and newspapers in the media, and there's a perception being created. I was looking at the TV at my hotel the other day, God, A News, and they're telling me things that are so great that the prices are going down, the dollars are coming, and this is happening, and that's happening. Guys, there's no such thing. It's a perception operation, you can do it because, as I said -- I've highlighted my speech in the past -- you've monopolized the media sector in Turkey, there's an incredible monopoly here. I mean, how did you get that? You've provided that with the tenders you've given. Almost all of the television companies that exist in Turkey today are connected to construction companies in some way, and these construction companies are receiving tenders from the state. So you have a chance to operate from here, and you do, but once again, this is not the solution. Beyond that -- I mean, if I had time, I'd like to talk about it -- I have very little time left -- and I don't think you can run politics in Turkey. Now, Mr. President said a very offensive thing the other day about a journalist named Orange the Conqueror. Friends, the last names of their people imply their families, and every family has its own unique morality... which makes it a matter of honor.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0009par0102	Mr. Hodja, let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0007par0103	Now, I think it's never acceptable for that person to say a violent sentence, like, "Is it orange or tangerine or citrus?" I'm trying to tell you guys, of course, during conversations like this, guys, do something. I mean, say something to the President. I'm trying to say something to him. But I know you won't be able to say anything either, because there's no way to say anything to the President, and you know it more than I do. So I have to finish my words, yes, my time is up, but you can't run Turkey like this, friends, you'll see that very soon. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0010par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0011par0108	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0010par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. A moment ago, of course, we listened to the preacher, and I only made a promise to clarify a few things, no teasing, just to clarify a few things.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0011par0113	That's a short explanation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0010par0114	Yeah, it's a very short statement. Now, we've been in power for fifteen or sixteen years. When you look at fifteen sixteen years of average growth, it's 5.7. It's really a world record, a world record on a global scale, really.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0012par0116	No, 3.9.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0010par0117	As a result, indeed, there is an economy brought from $230 billion to $850 billion. The national income per person comes from $3,000 to $11,000. This was done by reaching 81 million populations of 65 million. Every comparison must be done within its own body.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0013par0118	$11,000 isn't right.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0010par0119	Yes, Argentina and Mexico are successful, and their success is our failure... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0014par0122	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0010par0123	You have to appreciate their success, but the fact that we're growing from 65 million to 81 million must also be compared with the fact that we're going from 65 million. Turkey was 1 Turkey in 2002, and today it arrived in 3.5 Turkey in 2018. Therefore, I ask that this admirable situation be known to everyone. At the same time, indeed, Mr. President is a very democratic person. We're always in a building that has the ability to offer them any idea at various meetings. At the same time, you've always been able to tell him anything. And that's how I wanted to put it on the record. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, of course, the money spent on defence -- most of the budgets -- is now reserved for national education, health care, and the Ministry of Family, Work and Social Affairs. And I'd like to offer this to your appreciation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0015par0129	Thank you. Mr. Bilgen, it's on behalf of single groups, but since the AK PARTY group is discussing spending, let's put up with that ten minutes, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0016par0133	I'm going to give a shorter speech than a short one, Mr. President. I think the system crisis on these microphones has hit you again, but...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0015par0135	It has nothing to do with me. We know the system has general problems, Mr. President, so that we don't have to argue again after every speaker... It'd be better if it wasn't.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0017par0138	In fact, something happened in the previous two sessions, both yesterday and the day before, or it's very late at night when you return to the debate platform, but... Turkey's growth rate in 80 years is already 4.5, which is a country that had already left the war in 1923, a country that managed not to go to war in World War II, major crises... with an average of 4.5. Therefore, our speaker clearly distinguishes the good example from the early 2000s from the following 2011 so as not to do anything unfair. I'm just saying that to appreciate the last situation with more compassion and to be aware of the danger. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0018par0146	Dear friends, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it's now on behalf of Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal. Here you are, Mr. Saribal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0019par0150	Mr. President, we're going through a budget period. I don't need to give the president all the powers he already has, he's my company, I get what I want, I sell what I want, he says he's in charge. So we're all sharing here that it's not a big deal to authorize it. The question is, how democratic is this budget? Where are the peoples, occupational rooms, democratic mass organizations, unions? Nowhere. So this budget isn't democratic, so it's not the public budget. Two, this budget is not the villager's budget, it's not the pensioner's budget, it's not the budget of the budget worker, whose budget is it? Unfortunately, interest is the lobby's budget. Whose budget is this? Of course it's the palace's budget. Whose budget is this? It's the budget of a dictatorship that's trying to intimidate the public. What it says is: I'm going to build 228 prisons, I'm going to put 137 thousand more people in there; talk less about it -- don't touch it -- on TVs, on the left-hand side and on the left-hand side, I'm going to throw them in! That's why there's a budget for prisons. What else? To war. There's an economic crisis, that's what I'm trying to say. There's no economic crisis in this country, and strangers have brought it to this land. A sense of understanding has to see it. It's important to see what happens to the public here, but unfortunately, this is a feature of power: it zips up whenever it wants, it plugs its ears when it feels like it, it can always use those glasses on planes when it doesn't want to see it, it has this problem. Whose budget is this? Of course it's an importer's budget. You've given this country a new business. Yes, it's one of your success stories: a new sector, import industry. Using public resources, you have made your own allies rich around the palace and the palace. They're talking about budget transfers. Let's transfer them there. Just transfer it from there for once. You always transfer it from other budgets, you transfer it from other pens, or, you know, transfer it a little bit from there, and you bring something like this, so that people can see how democratic you are. The other, my friends, where do you collect your taxes? You collect 82% of the tax indirectly from the people, from the farmers, from the small tradesmen, from the civil servants, from the workers. However, it is necessary to collect the tax from the ceiling and spread incomes that exist on the floor. You call it a social state, you set aside a budget, but unfortunately, our people's situation is now able to collect food from garbage cans, such a country. Another issue, dear fellow lawmakers, or friends who have achieved a population of 77 per cent of the illegitimate national estate, is a population of 10 per cent. So 8 million people hold 77% of the illegal national estate. And even better, let's say one more thing you'll be proud of: your population of 1.800,000 people holds 54 percent of this illegitimate national enemy, 54 percent. The remaining 90 per cent population has to live on 27 per cent. What if he doesn't? Well, we'll start a war, we'll put him in jail, we'll throw him in jail, we'll beat him, we'll take him out, we'll put him in jail, we've got security forces working for us, we've got justice. Yesterday, the Minister of National Defense is speaking here: I did well, so I did well. I'll be glad if you show me an example in the world, except when fascism dominates, except when dictatorships rule. He will settle in an army, he will strengthen all the dynamics of his life; he will become an admiral, he will become a general, he will become a petty officer, he will act as an officer, and he will act as a coup officer; and I have suppressed the Chief of General Staff's attempt. He will boast, and then he will become a minister. We wouldn't believe it if they'd written it in books and stories. And they get up here and talk about it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is a minister here; he's looking, but I swear to God -- you're choosing these Agriculture ministers special -- and I mean it, he's looking. Again, we don't identify ministers of relevant areas, we put men of other areas there because they tell us the order comes from above, we do what he says. It says here that the farmer works hard and earns little. We say so, and this Minister works little, and he earns a lot; there is an interesting situation. He also says: "We have brought 300 trucks of meat. " The tender is not known, nor is it known who has taken it, nor is it known in the dates of which it has entered this land. He says, "Did he go through our throats? " Well, that's right, we don't know what goes down your throat, but we know for a fact that those 300 rigs of meat didn't go through our people's throats. Dear friends, you boast that we have done this, we have done this. Let's look at this agriculture, it's going by so fast. The budget of 2018 is about 760 billion. We had a total of 36.4 billion from here to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and the Ministry of Forestry last year. Now the budget of 2019 is 960 billion, 26 per cent, but our budget, the total budget of the two ministries -- combined with the Ministry of Forests -- is down by about 33.74 percent. You know what that means? I'm going to finish farming on this land. I mean, I'm going to make the peasant crawl. Let this peasant no longer produce, let him come to the city, and I will put a cigarette money in his pocket from welfare, and two bags of coal in front of his door, and I will manage. After that, I'll make a budget, I'll get another 6,000 men for the Diabetes, I'll promise him heaven and land in the next world. That's where the farmer comes in. So I'd like to make it very clear that this budget is not an agricultural budget. They're sharing again, and they're saying: "We're European 1," 180-190 billion. Let's ask the question: What was it when you arrived? It was 10 percent of the non-governor, my friends. What's it worth with today's money? It's supposed to be 440 billion if you've got a success story, non-national agricultural. How much is it? You're talking about 180-190 billion. But if you are not ashamed of him, and are not weary of men, then fear Allah. You don't have that problem, so you've made it a habit to lie to our eyes. Yes, valuable lawmakers, from 2002 to today -- let's figure out whose budget this budget is -- there's $189 billion in agricultural imports, $189 billion. I'll add 2018 to that, with valuable backgrounds and 75 billion dollars in raw materials imports, 75 billion dollars in raw materials imports. And the difference between imports and exports in raw materials is $64 billion, $64 billion. Do you know what this means, my friends, from 2002 to today, to the people of this country, to the people of this country, to the people of this country, to the farmers of this country, to the farmers of this country, to the village, to the teacher, to the teacher, to the student, to the property that you have sold, that's how much privatisation revenue we have, that's it, that's it. (CHP cheers) So that's just the damage you've done to us from this import. Another issue, valuable lawmakers, I'm going to give you an example of plant production -- time is short, but they'll probably give us an extra minute -- and I'd like to share this: look, my dear friends, the import of wheat is 52 million tons, 52 million tons. Payment is $14 billion, $14 billion. Total imports in sunflowers, soybeans, soybean seeds and derivatives, friends, 70 million tons, 70 million tons; the pen we pay the most after oil.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0020par0167	Do you know how much wheat exports are? Do you know how much money was taken from flour?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0019par0168	Do you know how much it's worth? $40 billion, $40 billion.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0021par0169	Teacher, don't shout!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0020par0170	Do you know how much money comes from flour and pasta?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0019par0171	Animalism: When these came, there was no animal import in this land, only one. In total, they import more than 7 million cattle, small animals, import 285,000 tons of bony, boneless meat; we import $7 billion,330 million, friends, $7 billion, $330 million. They also say: "The mera are standing still. " Look, friends, from 2002 to today, not one square metre has changed; 14.6. There is no major city in this country, there is no AKP in this country, there is no roads, bridges, rants, no toki, no trade zones, no palace spaces, nothing, nothing. Have fear of God. 14.6 million hectares of mera are down to 10 million hectares, 10 million hectares. You know what that means? No grass, no bait, no meat, no milk, guys. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0022par0175	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0019par0176	Well, there's no time left, and I'd like to briefly share this budget, not the farmer's budget, but the runt budget created by the AKP, the fear budget, and, frankly, the budget of the competitors. But Friedrich Nietzsche said: "The rich have left only God to the poor. The AKP has taken everything from us in this country, made society poor, and left them only in heaven and, of course, in the next world, thank God, and, of course, is there a solution? There are dear friends, there are, there are, there are solutions. This country wouldn't have come to this if you were afraid to eat as much as you fear to eat pork. Long live democracy, long live freedom.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0023par0178	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0022par0179	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0023par0182	Mr. President, there are a lot of things to be corrected in the previous statement of the minister, but especially to our President, the state is my company, I buy what I want, I sell what I want.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0024par0183	He's right.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0023par0184	Zinhar, this is unreal. Our people have already appreciated it. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. Law is binding for everyone. The work is only a technical arrangement for the adoption of a power in the former system in which the Minister of Finance has personally announced its authority into the presidential government system. We have worked so far to enrich the situation of all communities, including our farmer, and the right to serve is truly the most important thing for us. We strive to serve the righteous, to seek the pleasure of God, to receive the prayers of the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0025par0192	Dear friends, so the talks for groups in Article 6 have been completed. I have a request, but, Mr. President of the group, that we can't finish our talks today if we're evaluated after each speech. Each group has a speaker; in that sense, those speakers must give the necessary answers. Now we're talking for the individuals. İstanbul MP Rümesa Kadak. Here you go, Mr. Kadak. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0026par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. The very precious General Assembly, I have made a personal pledge on the 6th Amendment of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. Now, of course, while I was just waiting, I thought, six months ago when I was in college, the finals, the association running, you know, the internship and so on and so forth, someone would come to me and you'd call me on the stand six months later. I wouldn't believe it. So I'd like to start by saying thank you to all the young people who have given me a chance to dream and believe. Today I address you as the youngest member of our Veteran Assembly. We have 17 million young people like me in Turkey. We have the youngest population of Europe. Of course, the biggest feature of young people is that we are the fastest adapting mass to change, and many times we are actually the pioneers of change. At this point, of course, we are the teenagers who are the most affected by change and transformation. Today, I'm speaking to you as one of the most affected teenagers of this change, representing young people who make up one third of our total voter, whether they're AK PARTY or not. Of course, with such a valuable audience here, I'd like to ask all of our MPs for a few words on behalf of the young people, without securing opposition and power. [[AK PARTY AND GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE]] First: We young people love freedom, we always want freedom. I'm asking all of our deputies here to prioritize freedom. Let's just say we're not all going to allow our country to be brought back to what we remember from the '90s, back to the one-type period of raising citizens that came before. We, frankly, don't know as young people. Please, don't ever show us these distinctions because we don't want to fight, we want to produce. Second, let us take on young ones only in matters of young people. I will never accept their opinion, nor will any young ones accept it. Because today, in view of all of us on their cell phones, the applications that actually help us reach thousands of voters every day were produced by young people. We now have thousands of young people from distresses in Africa to women's rights, animal rights, environmental rights, IT philosophy, Mexican internal policy to the economic rise of China. But unfortunately, because political and administrative mechanisms do not include these young people, they can only remain young people who have discussed these issues. We young people want to produce in Turkey, our country, to do business, to be given responsibility. As in every field, I think we should play more roles in the political arena. Of course, not only in politics, but in civil society, in the academy, in the bureaucracy, in the business world, we need to give more room for young people. [[AK PARTY AND GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, we need to give our current young people more words, more responsibilities, so that they can actually exist in a meaningful way. Of course, today we young people want to make you a few promises. We promise that we will never stop believing in the freedom of critical, without insulting speech, without looking to our right, without looking to our left. We promise that we will work hard to give us the right of trust, that we will do what we do best, that we will not consume it, that we will never be able to produce it, that we will grow by step, that we will have the democracy that we gave our lives to protect when it comes, that we will never be able to strengthen it more, that we will never last be young. [[AK PARTY AND GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE]] And, unfortunately, I've often seen our young people in this podium being introduced differently. I certainly don't accept or deny false accusations of Turkish youth.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0027par0213	Mr. Kadak, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0026par0214	Thank you. As I end my remarks, I would like to thank all of our deputies, who have made me here first, who have opened the way for young people, to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and to the AK PARTI, after which he is of any opinion here, to all of us who have never stopped smiling at me. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0028par0218	Thank you, Mr. Kadak. Mardin MP Ebrü Günay is now on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Günay. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0029par0223	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. My young friend, who spoke before me, spoke very well, made an emphasis on freedom. I hope and I hope that it raises that sound inside because we want young people to be free, they're the future of this country. But I'd like to remind him that 70 thousand young students are now in prison, and I hope that they will also fight for freedom for these 70,000 young prisoners, and I hope they will also show it. Today is December 19th, the anniversary of the prison operations that we all know were carried out in 2000. Dear friends, the prisons of a country, the mirror of that country's human rights, the mirror of that country's rule of law, the mirror of that country's democracy. But unfortunately, today, on the anniversary of December 19th, our parliamentary friend Leyla Güven is on the 42nd day of the hunger strike. Again, dozens of political prisoners, political prisoners are facing a process in an indefinitely unchanging hunger strike, and the country faces a prison issue again on the anniversary of the 19th December, expressing its demands for freedom. Of course, the fact that this Parliament does not see it, that Parliament ignores it, is another tragedy. I'd like to continue my conversation by expressing it. Dear friends, corruption from many municipalities has been publicly publicized in public administration audit reports organised by the Court's presidency. An important part of corruption reflected in the Court reports are the reports of trustees you assigned to DBP municipalities. I'd like to talk to you about just one of the trustee municipalities, in which case, I'd like to address the trustee report of my own constituency, Mardin Metropolitan Municipality. These Court reports show that the buildings used or used were not included in fiscal tables, that the trustee assigned three buildings to other institutions and institutions, but that there is no record of allocations in the financial tables. It has been determined that the current value of 1,479 is not reflected in the actual situation, that the tenders were shown as $1.00, and that the tenders were given to subsidiary companies. The fee for the religious conference of the municipality's Ministry of Culture is among the allegations that it embezzles billions of dollars from the budget. In addition to the press, the payment of 60,000 TL was paid to Hatipoğlu for the conference held by the theologian Nihat Hatipoğlu in Mardin. The journalist Sedat Sur was sentenced to 11 months and 20 days in prison, but there was no denial of this report about the trustee. Again, the Mardin Metropolitan Municipality's trustee, who broke the law, has now set up a sale of city-owned subsidiaries, which he owes millions of dollars. While under DBP administration, the municipality, which has no debt to the treasury, even has a plus budget in its vault, is currently in debt. This opened the way for the sale of the city's estates, which puts one of the ads on sale. Again, the Midyat Municipality has recently announced that six subsidiaries have been auctioned off. Interestingly, even the AKP's councilman has rejected the sale, saying, "Our reputation will be humiliated." The sale of four moving sites has been cancelled, sold for two non-moving $1 million. Where's all this money going? Which gap is it used to cover? Again, it makes sense for us to have these movers on the market before March 31st. Again, it is clear that corruption has been committed at Mardin Artuklu University as well as irregularities and corruption committed at Mardin Metropolitan Municipality. Some professors at the Faculty of Education have not completed their mandatory lesson loads -- but they have entered pedagogical formation classes -- have been shown to have completed their mandatory courseloads. The report also shows that the university's return capital business has been damaged, the grants for academic research have been used outside the scope of its purpose, and the expenditures have not been documented. Dear friends, Mardin University of Artuklu has been originally planned as a multilingual and rich architectural university of Mardin province, but for some reason the point is obvious. Exports are full of academics who have been suspended or forced to leave the office of the president on a mobbing basis, without extension of the contracts of academics who work under contract at the university. Dear friends, the Institute of Languages at Artuklu University was established, and its education in Kurdish and then undergraduate courses began.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0030par0233	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0029par0234	I'm completing it. But unfortunately, the situation of the Living Language Institute, the Kurdistan Department, is clear.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0031par0236	The University of Alparslan...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0029par0237	Finally, a major distribution of 20,000 contract teachers was made by the MEB, and 2 Kurmanci and 1 Zazaki teacher were appointed for living languages and dialects. So you're saying you're okay with 3 people for 20,000 teachers? This is actually a sign of your open discrimination against Kurdish language. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0032par0240	Dear friends, so the conversation is complete. We're doing a question-answer on the 6th. Ten minutes total, five minutes question, five minutes answer. Initiating question process. Mr. Gaytancioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0033par0244	Thank you, Mr. President. According to data released yesterday, unemployment across Turkey has reached the highest in recent times with 11.4 per cent. As far as we can see, the government prefers to save the day by encouraging production, not by creating employment, but by doing short-term programs through the ISKUR, offering people six months of hope. The problem isn't solved, it's getting heavier. The highest unemployment is for young people who have graduated from college. So it wasn't about increasing the number of colleges. It's supposed to grow with an economic policy that's based on production, which creates added value, and it's supposed to create employment. What did you do? You thought Turkey had grown by building a lot of concrete buildings. Is there growth, unemployment, by leaving the fields empty, by borrowing the farmer, by not seeing the tradesman? Do you intend to direct your economic policies from the policies that create unemployment to productive policies?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0032par0246	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0034par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we've got a long-standing bus company that's about half an age away. Eighty-one-year-old Ulusoy, fifty-six-year-old Pamukkale company, both companies have announced -- there are several smaller companies -- concordatos, similar to this one. A lot of other companies -- as I said -- are in trouble, too. Do you intend to provide support from the Social Security Agency for our employees, for our drivers, for all the staff who work in this sector, for all the people who work in this sector, for the sake of giving life water to the sector, in order to ensure that more of our companies in the industry -- you know, they provide a lot of jobs, to provide quality services? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0035par0250	Mr. Özsavlı...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0036par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and your high council. There is surely a book known to the book Umberto Eco, written in the book "Object and Over-Reference," which is basically defined by the way the reader does what he does and does what he does and makes the text serve his purpose. In the last week, I have witnessed Mr. Katırcıoğlu and opposition MPs first reading the book the EC PARTY has written for 16 years from their own initiatives and their own frames. But it should also be known that the great Turkish nation literally reads this book and gives the EC PARTI its value in each election. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0037par0254	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0038par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. 1,800,000 people get paid under the minimum wage. Six million, 700,000 people get minimum wage under the hunger line, and there are thousands of unregistered employees. Since January 1st, a citizen's debt to banks has exceeded 500 billion liras, and the interest paid to banks in the first ten months has been 55.5 billion. Farmers' fields are impounded, retired, civil servants, workers can't make the end of the month, and they're still talking about spreading taxes. We're calling in: spread the tax to the ceiling, spread the income to the bottom. Will you remove the tax from the minimum wage? Will you give me 3600 additional indicators as promised? Will you hand over the rights of the YIT? Will you remove taxes on the farmer's diesel and fertilizer? Will you remove electricity, natural gas, the taxes on the water bills, the charges?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0039par0258	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0040par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. According to Ibn Haldun, the lives of governments are like the lives of men; they watch ups and downs. Thankfully for today, we've had our budget made by our son today... let's hear from Mehmet Akif. ▪ When our work is done to the shipyard or to the sea, It's our custom to run to England. For a broken bridge comes the chief from Belgium, I don't know how to summon a physician. For example, there's no budget holder, Come on, let him come to the IRS, Monsieur Loren. Where are your countertops? Where's the industry? It's either Brussels or Berlin or Manchester." If we can all make our own budget, don't worry, the rest will come.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0041par0271	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0042par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. The FOX main news bulletin calls to the street whether it is orange or tangerine or citrus, the AKP's leader, Mr. Erdoğan, who is targeting Fatih Orange. Know your place, your place. If you don't know, this nation will blow your neck out. The expression "life safety in our country after property is subject to the permission of one man. " This is not an attitude that corresponds with the understanding of democracy, which is unacceptable, especially in a country where, as President, the entire country is not fit for a person responsible for its people, nor does it fit in our faith. I'd like the President to correct his words immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0043par0276	Mr. Nicemansur...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0044par0277	Mr. President, there are over a million unemployed graduates in our country. One hundred and fifty thousand of them are architects and engineers. Because of the economic crisis in our country, jobs in the private sector have narrowed down. So the only hope these young people have is to keep the promise of a public appointment. Former Foods has requested a staff of 10,550 engineers and veterinarians to the Ministry of Agriculture - May and February 2018 - last year. Why don't you answer this student, why don't you? Mr. Secretary, come, keep your government's promise of this appointment, that you will meet the needs of staff of the Department of Agriculture and employ unemployed engineers. Give good news to engineers and all ministries in need of staff waiting for the appointment before Christmas.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0043par0279	Mr. Atay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0045par0280	Mr. President, my question is to the Minister of Transport. We have a very nice airport in Gaziantep, but our planes can't get in and out. The reason is fog. Even with today's technology so advanced, we don't understand whether the planes are ever going to be able to get up or down. It would do great harm to the Gaziantep people and its industrialists. Plane tickets are very expensive and expensive because the planes landing at Gaziantep are small-body and the flights have not been increased. We demand that aircraft flights be increased immediately, large-body aircraft sent to Gaziantep, and the technology needed to repair the fog failure.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0043par0282	Dear friends, of course, we're running out of time for an answer.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0046par0283	There's no Minister, there's no Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0047par0284	We've got a commissioner, he's a mountain.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0046par0285	Questions for the ministers.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0048par0286	Mr. Commissioner, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0049par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. I simply want to express what we're doing with this 6th article. But before that, there were some words, questions about employment, and I'd like to share data on that. When we look at the 2010 and 2018 comparisons, we see that the employment is 21 million 858 thousand in 2010, but in 2018, the additional increase in employment of 6.8 million came to 28 million,677. And when you look at the European Union, it's clear that they can't get close to the rate that we're still getting jobs. In addition, when we look at the turnout rate, we see that this rate, 46.5% in 2010, has reached 53.2% with 2018 data. There was a statement about whether there was a savings budget, whether there was a balance budget. Here, we look at this budget, and we see a savings and a measure of 75.9 billion dollars -- which corresponds to 1.7 per cent of the national income. The $59.9 billion of these comes from spending savings, and the $16 billion comes from revenue-enhancing measures. It is clear that it is not wrong to call it a balancing and austerity budget. Also, in terms of purchasing power, we see that the growth rate, which is 4.7, is 5.7, along with a strong growth performance that has been established recently. Gene, according to the price of purchase power, which is $9.200 in 2002, we see that income per person goes up to $27,900, and in that sense our country is ranked 14th, according to the buying power parity. Gene, from a savings point of view, we see this, for example, in vehicles. In the budget of 2018, we see that the number of vehicles available to various public administrations was 4,780, while the number was reduced to about 2,325, halved in the budget of 2019. If I go back to this 6th article, in the (1)th joke, the President will be appointed to the President at the same time, provided he does not exceed 10 per cent of the overall budgetary budgetary budgets, as well as between the public administrations and the budgets of private budgetary budgets, or between the public administration budgets of the Treasury and Finance Ministry budgets. (2) The public administration, which will provide services from public administrations under the general budget, is authorized to transfer it to the budget of the administration, which will run the service within the year. (3) The third joke provides direct transfer of the administration, which has run a business budget for the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation, for which public administrations as part of the general budget will be paid to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, as part of the 10 July 2018 presidential decree.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0050par0297	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0049par0298	In the fourth joke, the National Ministry of Defence, the General Command of the gendarmes, the Security Directorate, the Coast Guard Command budgets, are authorized to transfer funds for services which must be managed from one centre between the functions. In the 5th joke, public administrations shall be appointed by the Presidential framework, which shall be established as a basis for the grant of financing, which exceeds the specific budgetary administrations and regulatory and control institutions (B), which are specified in the tablets marked (F). It's longer, of course, to explain the substance, but I think it'll be enough here.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0051par0301	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, now there's a motion on the 6th article, and I'm reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (1) of the 6th Article of the Central Management Budget Law of the year 2019 be removed from the text of the article and arranged according to its number of jokes. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Sibel Özdemir Ömer Fethi Gürer Okan Gaytancıoğlu Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Erkan Aydın Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0052par0310	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0051par0311	Dear friends, the 161st amendment to the Constitution, which regulates budget talks, is read and voted on without discussion. If there are any other motions to be filed today, that would be my explanation for them. With Article 6/5 of the Central Management Law of 2019, the budget shall be used effectively and efficiently in order to ensure the use of funds given by the Budget Act (1), the budget shall be used in the budgetary budgetary budgetary budgets (01), (02), (05), (06), (06), (08), and the budget budgetary budgets (2009) shall be paid by the state budgetary budgetary budgets and the budgetary budgetary budgetary budgetary budgets (2004). The 1st Amendment to the Law on Public Financial Management and Control Act 6761, adopted on 16/11/2016, and the 1st Amendment to some Laws, and the 1st amendment to Article of Public Financial Management and Control Law, Article 21/11/2016, are carried out by law. However, with the ability to save money and not exceed ten per cent of the overall budgetary grants to carry out a balanced and effective budget policy, procedures and procedures for the transfer of funds between budgets of public administrations under the central administration are determined in the central management budget law. In accordance with article (1) of the Central Management Budget Law of 2019, the Prime Minister has been given powers that are incompatible with the basic principles of Law 5018 and the financial system established by its general budget budgets, and the budgets of private budgets (01), (03), (05), (06), (08), and (09) of the budgets of the budgets of the Ministry of Treasury and Finance, or of the budgets of the Ministry of Treasury and Finance, to transfer the funds to the terms of the budget. In Article 7 of the Constitution, the Turkish National Assembly has the authority to act on behalf of the Turkish Nation. This authority cannot be transferred. It is called. In Article 87 of the Constitution, budgetary rights belong to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The president cannot be given broad powers without a frame of law in an unspecified, unspecified area, without a limitation. The setting of a limit for the transfer sum, such as 10% of the general budget grants, does not mean setting a frame, drawing a border. It is also contrary to the Constitution's 87th and 161th Articles of the Constitution to change existing laws or to be embezzled as of budget year. This motion is made because it violates the Constitution's 7th, 87th, 161st amendments. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. MADDE 7- (1) 38.01 of the budget for the chairmanship of the Board of Higher Education. 02. 00-09. 4. 2. 20-2-05. The grant included in the 2 (Student Development Programme) arrangement is paid to higher education institutions that provide graduate education under this programme by considering the number of students and students assigned to study areas and to be used in the purchases of goods and services. This sum is paid, on the one hand, in the internal income of the concerned higher education institution (B), while on the other hand, the institute of higher education is authorized to register funds for the table marked "A" (A). (2) was the first joke (d) of Article 43 of Higher Education Law 4/11/1981 (d), 44th, 46th, 58th, additional 25th, additional 25th and additional 27th Articles 19/11/1992, under Article 7/43, and other revenues are not registered as special income and special allowance to the budgets of higher education institutions. The amount and revenues collected are registered as self-inflicted income for the related higher education institution budget. In return for these recorded sums, the funds put into the budget of the relevant institute of higher education are used on the basis of revenues. (3) In return for self-inflicted income, no transfers can be made between the budget (a) of the higher education institution (except the transfers between the grants at the fourth level of functional categorization (with the exception of the transfers to the grants imposed in terms of self-inflicted income under the function of 9.6.0-Education Services function). A) The amount paid by relevant states or international organisations in exchange for expenses to foreign national students and staff who have been educated and studied at the National Security Directorate's institutes, B) As part of an agreement made by NATO authorities to pay for maintenance and repairs of auxiliary airports, C) The amount for the Ministry of Trade services by 2 per cent of the bandrol fees that were collected by Customs Administrations to be transferred to Turkey's Radio-Television Agency, will be paid by the institution On the one hand, it comes into the general budget for the same purpose, while on the other hand, it is authorized to save funds for private arrangements to be opened in the administration budgets and to transfer parts of the funds that are not spent within the year. Ankara MP İbrahim Halil Oral on behalf of the Fine Party on Article. Here you go, Mr. Oral. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0053par0336	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on Article 7 of the 2019 Budget Law Proposal. Precious lawmakers, we've been negotiating budgets for days under the roof of our House. HE voted yes, and said no to some, because some of the good money was in favor of our nation. This is a requirement of constructive opposition, but unfortunately the ruling and ruling party has blocked its ear to the opposition. We have come with the people's vote, and the people have chosen us. They say so. Dear AK PARTY MPs, we didn't come down here from the sky, so we came with the people's vote, and our nation gave us opposition. By not listening to the voice of the opposition, you're ignoring our citizens who don't actually vote for you. That's not the right approach. When we look at the world, there's a lot of power that comes with a vote of public opinion, which is remembered for persecution, injustice. Hitler, who led the world into a giant war, came to power by the popular vote, and Assad came to power by the coup d'état. We can replicate these samples. Just coming with the election doesn't mean it's fair and democratic. Any power that doesn't value the opinions of anyone else becomes authoritarian and harms its own and it hurts its nation. I'd like to share with you a verse that hangs on the wall of the First National Assembly of Turkey. In the 38th verse of the Holy Surah, God says, [[The reading of the 38th verse of the Surah by the preacher]] So they do their work by consulting with consultation. The precious power, you do not consult or consult. You don't honor democracy, at least honor the verse of God, and listen to it. And listen to the words of our youngest member of parliament who has just spoken here. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about bandrol fees for TRT. We like and follow the literature that TRT puts our culture and our heart geography at the center, but the fact that the TRT (TRT) and some of the Turkish press have fallen into the same situation as Pravda in Russia. Our country is ranked 157/th among 180 countries in the World Press Freedom Index. It has been repeated on this bench many times, but I would like to reiterate that the Cumhur Alliance and Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan were present on the official channel TRT 1. The Republican People's Party and Mr. Slim 16 hours, HYI PARTI and Mr. Chairman-in-Chief Meral Akşener Ma'am three and a half hours, Saadet Party and Mr. Karamolaoğlu took part in an hour and a half. Dear MPs, with the participation of more than 100,000 citizens in Ankara on April 1, 2018, no Turkish Radio Television Agency has released an extraordinary convention, not one minute news. This painting is a shameful painting. Turkey's Radio Television Association is an institution that operates on Turkish tax dollars. If you spend these taxes only for your own power, you will be consumed by injustice, unlawfulness, and the right of a servant. Honourable lawmakers, the bill we're talking about has a budget for the Board of Higher Education. The right and healthy way for information to be produced in democracies is through free and quality university. Protecting the traditions and quality of our universities is our most basic duty, but unfortunately, our traditional universities cannot be managed. I think the division of the University of Gazi, the University of Ankara, which is the age of the Republic and the title of the great Ataturk, has done a great deal of damage to our university community. Both the opposition parties have been heavily criticised by the public and the students and academics of the University of Gazi and Turkey. While this division is being carried out, it is also an insincere fact that Ankara's spiritual architects, such as Haci Bayram Veli, are being given the name of the great pious Haci Bayram Veli, are being offered for a reason. Dear lawmakers, I suggest you look at this logo. This is the logo for Haci Bayram Veli University, which was announced last week. For God's sake, can you see here the spiritual personality of Hajji Bayram Veli, or any other national value? This university doesn't have a sign or an institutional identity. There have been many casualties at the point that scientific publications have been scanned in international indexes. There are hundreds of problems in academic and administrative operations. During this period, Haci Bayram Veli University was only on paper. He was appointed as a two-month professor at the university with a special NGO. What would happen if we named the University of Social Sciences of Ankara, just 200 metres from Haci Bayram Veli Temple, Haci Bayram Veli University? What if we could solve the problems of Gazi University instead of dividing them with the responsibility of being a great state? Respected lawmakers, in my speech last week, I said, this is a budget of waste, because there are no workers, no officers, no pensioners, no poor people. I'm going to give you an example of this: last week we visited our villages in Polatli district of Ankara. When we went to our village, the citizen started reproaching us. At first, we didn't understand, and then they thought our logos were like AK PARTY. You know why? There's no reception in the village of Ozyurt, no water, no roads, the peasant's a mess. Friends, I'm talking about a place 100 miles from the presidency and the Grand Assembly. Then the villager apologized to us, and we made peace. Then, we went to the villages of Longbeyli, Sinanlı, Hadjiosmanoglu and visited our farmer, who produced sugar beets and onions. Guys, the farmer's a mess. If we sell the village, we can't pay for the interest of loans from the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops, he says. A ton of sugar beets are still available because of the sugar mills sold. Friends, I suggest you take a look at these photos... mountains, piles of onion and sugar beets. These beets are a national fortune, and they rot here. The onion manufacturer couldn't sell the onion. You know why? People are afraid to buy goods from a farmer who is accused of hoarding. They've become cowards. That's your agricultural policy, that's your point of view of the peasant. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to end my conversation by expressing an issue of emotion and thoughts that a historical responsibility has brought. One of the most powerful rulers of the late Ottoman history is undoubtedly the martyr Enver Pasha. Enver Paşa is worth something to us by mistake. The great Ataturk was born like the sun, and a group sank in its glory, and he said, "Let's put it in history." This history has a responsibility to us. The late Nihal Horseless described Enver Pasha with his lines: "Heroism does not mean a single rise, nor does it mean to be extinguished like the stars. / Thinking about not dying is futile;/ Heroism is to attack and never return. Enver Pasha fought for the independence and peace of our relatives in Turkistan's Geography on Tabikistan's Çeğen Hill. A Koran in his chest, with a heart full of love for his country, attacked and martyred against the bullets of a machine gun. For the memory of this man of courage, faith and love of homeland, it is also considered to be a monument to the place where he was martyred to make our love for Turkish geography a little more concrete. The immediate completion of the monument, which was planned during the late Sulejman Demirel era in the reign of Mr. Abdullah Gul, but still not completed, will please our nation and our citizens with the love of Enver Pasha in their hearts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0054par0355	Sure. Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0053par0357	I hope this will also be a blessing for the AK PARTY power. I present this matter to the knowledge of our great delegation, and I remember the martyr, Enver Pasha, with mercy and gratitude. I humbly salute your high council, that the budget of 2019 should be good for our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0054par0359	Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Izmir MP Tamer Osmanakaoğlu... Here you are, Mr. Osmanakaoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0055par0363	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on Article 7 of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019. I hereby salute your honored delegation and the great Turkish nation following us on the screen with respect and conversation. Our country offers hope with its young and dynamic population. It is important for this young population to be able to receive education and education according to the needs of the age and to walk more firmly into the future. The fact that our high-school children have graduated from high school and have chosen a section of employment anxiety, that our college graduates are anxious to find work outside of their own territory; the guarantee of our future guarantees that our young people lose their qualifications, our future resources are wasted. For this reason, the quality of education provided in our universities is vital for the development of our universities as a science-making and research development center, the development of a system that will allow our scientists, who are not lacking in licenses, integrity and loyalty to their state, to be able to take office, co-ordinating. And in that sense, we don't ignore that there are serious steps taken, and we care very much about our National Ministry of Education's promising vision of 2023. Dear lawmakers, we would like to take this opportunity to address some issues, mistakes and shortcomings, suggestions that we find useful. Last month, a regulation was issued and a transfer of power took place on the Higher Education Board, and on 2 November 2018, university administrations began to determine the criteria and ads and criteria for the employment of academics in accordance with the definition of norm staff at the State Higher Education Institutions and the Rules of Use. This is a reform in terms of the powers of the CEC, but with this regulation, the possibility of certain victims has increased, and the possibility of abuse and abuse has been opened up, unfortunately. The start of individual private ads at universities confirms our determination. These ads are clearly in need of supervision, given their driver's license and integrity. On July 15, 2016, we saw much more clearly after the incident, how a traitorous terrorist organization, a terrorist organization, built a home for universities, gained control of universities, and funded universities. Considering the possibility of a new parallel state structures taking place, the possibility of being replaced by people who lack licenses and integrity rather than state, nation and homeland, should not be ignored by the possibility of being committed to individuals and certain groups. At this point, I'd like to open a parentheses and share our proposal with you. It is imperative that strategic and sociological-based projects be co-ordinated in the co-ordinating of competent institutions, so that our young people who have come to universities for education and teaching may not fall under the grip of new parallel state structures. It is also possible that the regulation will deepen some of the problems that already exist in our universities. It must not be forgotten that the task of teaching is not simply to enter the class. It is not a scientific approach, but it is the biggest obstacle to producing science in universities, as it is not a scientific approach, to simply direct the teaching staff to the lesson, to determine employment based on the number of students. It is important that our academics at our universities, which are science-producing centers, do scientific work, provide the necessary conditions for them to weigh in on RD activities. We don't ignore positive developments, such as the increase in science production and the increase in RD activities, but we have to admit that our universities are not where they deserve to be. Dear lawmakers, today, very important chapters such as physics and biology are among the areas our students do not prefer to enter, even though they have earned the right to enter. It's a fact that these parts are the backbone of science. Among the reasons why our students do not prefer these chapters is that they are concerned that after graduating, I will not be able to find a job. This, however, would not justify academic employment according to the number of students, without a student, without an academic. This also prevents development in areas such as physics and biology, two very important sciences, and in pencils linked to them. I'd like to rephrase, it's not just a teaching job to get into class. Colleges aren't just lectured buildings, they're science centers. The ultimate goal is to produce science. Thus, while academic autonomy is intended for this regulation, strengthening and actively running the control mechanism will prevent abuse and abuse. Therefore, the review of this regulation is important for the development of not only in quantity but also in quality of our universities, which are the center of science production. Dear lawmakers, our academics have some problems that are now chronic. Although he deserves an upper cast for our academics, it's a problem that he can't assign a staff even though he's qualified. I'm afraid it stands before us as a fact that an academic who deserves to be a professor today is waiting for any doctor to leave his post so that he can get a title in an episode of our scientist. It is our hope that this problem will be resolved in some way. The lack of autonomy rights for academic personnel is the leading cause of the faculty's interest in additional classes. Here, however, there are some problems with the lack of additional tuition fees and the fact that their tuition is subject to income tax. The exclusion of additional tuition fees from teachers is one of the expectations of our academics. Another practice that has led to major casualties in universities is the failure of administrative staff to benefit from the co-existence of the academic staff. It would be a huge step to end this wrong practice, which has been on the agenda for years, causing many families to fall apart. I believe it's not too difficult to make such a good decision, and we have full faith that it will be taken. What's really important is that the family union is being united. On the other hand, we care about the increase in the number of foreign students we host in our country. The number reached 140,000 is a significant gain for both our country and our prestige on the international platform. But among these students who come to our country, who serve foreign intelligence organizations, who try to control students coming to Turkey from their home country, who use the advantages of being a student in Turkey for different purposes, who recruit members of terrorist organizations...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0056par0377	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0055par0378	...the existence of so-called students should not be ignored. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it is our wish that our educational community be answered, that the promotional system be structured based on merit and success, and that the reputation and reputation of the profession be put in its rightful place. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that our central management budget of 2019 would bring blessings for our government and nation, and I salute your grand delegation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0057par0383	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran. Here you are, Mr. Acar Basian. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0058par0388	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before we go on our reviews of the budget, today is the anniversary of the December 19th prison massacre. As you know, on October 20, 2000, hundreds of prisoners went on hunger strike with 19 basic demands to protest the F-type prisons system that Turkey intended to cross. Some of these prisoners turned their hunger strike into a death fast on the 45th day of the hunger strike. At around 4:30 p.m. on the morning of December 19th, an operation was launched simultaneous to 20 prisons. In this operation, heavy weapons, still unknown chemicals, machinery, helicopters, gas bombs, the roofs of prisons were drilled, the walls were torn down -- unfortunately the death operation, but -- what they call Operation Return to Life, the death-oriented operation. 20 people were massacred in this operation, hundreds of people lost their lives, and at that time I'd like to share with you a few sentences or a few headlines about the death operation, as we call it. You will also see how familiar we are or how familiar it is: the State Enlightenment of the State, the Burn Command / Leader's Instruction: A Friend Burns himself Against this operation. The name Return to Life has found its true meaning yesterday. Again, the human rights clowns, who are the enemy of the country and the nation, are speaking on the opposite side after the sad events that took place in prison. We see in newspapers today that are very similar to what the president said about a journalist, which we hear a lot about the opposition, which is very similar to what we've heard in the newspaper headlines today. I'm going to share with you the testimony of one of the witnesses of that time. He was our candidate for deputy from Ankara on June 24th, and unfortunately he didn't make it to those ranks. I wish he was here and he could share his experiences and offer suggestions on how to make amends here. You know, Veli Sacis was vaccinated from his job with one of the OPECs declared after the July 15 coup attempt. Veli Sacis says that they created tension when there was nothing in Burdur Prison. They started the operation at eight o'clock in the morning. They brought in the Bolu Commando Brigade they had prepared earlier. They used a gas bomb on us, a sonic bomb, a bullet, everything, and finally they went in with a dozer. I lost my arm with the dozer. Many of my friends have been seriously injured. I waited for hours in the ward, wounded. After eight hours, my friends were able to get me to the hospital. They took my arm and threw it in the trash and found it in a dog's mouth. When a citizen reported a murder and reported it in the paper, it turns out it was my arm. There it is, the December 19th prison massacre, described by Veli Sakımik. And as I said, after the coup attempt on July 15th, after the coup attempt on which the government saw as Allah's grace, an OHR was expelled with a KHK, and has been fighting today. Of course, unemployment has increased to 11.4 per cent during a period where unemployment rates have increased every day, increasing by 930,000 in the same period of September 2018 to 3.749 thousand in the same period last year, with an increase of 0.8 per cent to 11.4 per cent. I'm talking about this TİKİK data, which explains its own. When unemployment is so extreme, when we talk about schools, schools, education, where there are so many qualified people, they need to be exported, treated with unemployment, bread, and hunger, and they need to be discussed. But Veli Sacik was just one of those examples. As we know, unemployment was actually a way of knowingly implementing power itself to opponents. Dear friends, again, by the grace of God, the KHKs, which were announced after July 15th, were appointed trustees to many of our municipalities, one of which was the city of Batman. Again, a reminder. We've been interviewing so much budgets, we haven't seen anything in the budget to move Batman's economy forward about Batman's or Batman's situation, but Batman's the latest in unemployment, which is Batman's most unemployed city. The first thing the trustees assigned to the State of Emergency were to export workers and workers from the municipality. If you ask me, friends, what did they base these OPECs on? Let me give you an example of how power approaches opposition to Kurdish language and how it approaches Kurds. Dear friends, who have been exported for a reason: to become a member of the Batman branch of the Kurdish Language Research and Development Society and to become a member of the Association of Solidarity and Culture, as well as the Helping With Families Who Lose Near Batman Mesopotamia. So these two associations were two organizations that were legally operating, and on July 15th, you closed them down, and they became illegal? People were driven from their jobs, their overpowerings. We've been saying the same thing over and over for the last few days, so let's rephrase. From the point of view of democracy, your policy style and your approach to the economy are very similar. When we say the war budget, everyone jumps out of all the ruling lawmakers' places, but we know that in this period, when most of the budget goes directly to him, we see what the effect of war in some part of the war has on society. Here's the process of conflict, here's the war, here's the policy of hostility condemning thousands of people to unemployment. Again, besides, you know, or you don't know, Batman, I'll tell you, it's a province that provides its economy with oil, which is actually a product of agriculture, animalism and a period of its existence. In Batman, animals are the most animal workers, and they can't do livestock today because your war policies say: Let's declare private military safety zones, where citizens can't take their animals to pasture, even if they want to, let them take them there at a certain time, let them ask the commander's office or the authorities there, let them know if the animals are dead or if they're left there; you're running a policy like this. Again, as I said, because you've drawn up a budget in spite of the public, the reason for Batman's existence, the reason for the existence of Turkey's Oil, has been reduced, reduced, reduced, and funded by a certain group, a certain segment. Yeah, Batman became Batman with oil, when all the signs -- which represent oil -- are at the head of oil -- are now facing unemployment, it's necessary to ask why people are facing unemployment. As I said again, your warrior, conflicting policies... For example, when strawberries are the biggest livelihood in Sason district of Batman, when honey is the biggest source of income, when they are the biggest source of development or opening up, when no steps are taken to encourage it, the only thing you see or see is the protection policy. You're just telling people to die or kill, so you're offering people nothing but death. Either they're going to starve to death or they're going to have to die as a part of the war you've created; you've followed a path and a method. Again, there was talk of Hasankeyf. Dear friends, I don't know if any of you have seen Hasankeyf, but I suggest you all go and see the previous photos. Every historical artifact you remove from Hasankeyf, or carry from Hasankeyf, is ripped out of there like a piece of the hearts of the Batmans, the Hasankeyf. You know, Hasankeyf's shipping tender was actually cancelled by the State Department, irregularities have been established, but Hasankeyf is still moving. Look, thousands of years of history, dozens of civilizations, are being watered down to provide a very short-term energy requirement. To do that, you have to listen to your conscience. We call you to the conscience, we tell you to listen to your conscience. Dear friends, one last thing... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0059par0402	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0058par0403	Now, if you're talking about how the economy is so good, I think you should get out of your glass mansions and get inside a community. Look, I visited Batman's entire tradesman one by one without separating his political views: How are you? We're trying to be good. When I asked them how they were doing, they said, "I'm so glad." They said, "I'm sorry. In Batman, dozens, hundreds of tradesmen, small tradesmen had to close their doors because of your policies. The Batman tradesman can't pay his rent, he can't bring bread home. If you really ask, "How will there be a budget for the people? How should it be?" We have given up on us. Go out from your palaces and palaces, and enter into the people. The people don't calculate the dragon's fruit, they're really worried about bringing home the bread. If you listen to them, you'll know what they want. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0059par0406	Now, the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0060par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0059par0408	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0060par0409	Sir, there's been a reference to the operation in 2000, where the state is held responsible for almost a massacre. As of that time, I'd like to make an assessment of my position, sir, with the presence of the National Movement Party in the 57th government process.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0059par0410	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0060par0413	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the speaker, the December 19th, expressed this day as the anniversary of the prison massacre. Today, the records of the Republic of Turkey's state have been recorded as the day of a massive attempt to rebel and attempt to attack in 20 prisons with Operation Return to Life. Thus it is known to our people. Other than that, we never, ever agree to express an issue in any other way, using the weaknesses that may have occurred in people's memories over the past 18 years. As of that day, I'd like to share with you what I have in front of me in the daily Hurriyet of 24/12/2000 about the materials that these riots have lasted the longest, the things that have been released from the Umraniye Prison for the longest time.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0059par0416	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0060par0417	I'd like to extend our nation's appreciation. Now, from Umraniye Prison, there are four pistols, thousands of bullets, 500 handmade gas masks, a flamethrower weapon made out of 15 tubes, hundreds of cutting tools made out of bunk irons, close to handmade ten, five pipe-type bombs, five pipe-type bombs, 12 wooden-like model weapons made for training, a large amount of surgical equipment, 10 tapes, 105 typewriters, 300 video tapes, a truckload of illegal organizations, a truckload of illegal documents, five mobile phones, five assaults, an assaults, an attack on the naval, 12 wooden model weapons made for training, a large amount of surgical equipment, and other plans for the rest of the city.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0059par0420	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0060par0421	These are the ones that appear and are detected outside of the materials that have been contaminated by the water that was put there to suppress the rebellion. Now, for God's sake, what innocent democratic demand, what death fast? The hundreds of illegal criminal devices that I'm counting on are found in these prisons, and this kind of rebellion is now described as a massacre after 18 years, and I leave it to our nation's discretion. As always, here on this bench again -- our people know what's what -- has been an attempt to send a message and send greetings to the international public or to some of the losers. These records are available in the archives of the Republic of Turkey, and I felt the need to repeat it here to refresh our nation's memory. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0061par0425	Thank you. Mr. Bilgen, do you have a request?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0062par0427	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0061par0428	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0062par0430	Mr. President, as a result, if there's been a case in a country that's caused the death of 30 people, of course, it's worth being remembered for, who's responsible for it. I remember those days very well, there were talks that began to resolve the problem; intellectuals, academics were negotiating through the information of the Ministry of Justice, but there was an intervention that would leave even the speakers in the dark. I don't know who chose her for what purpose. The question about other people is how did they get there? Look, when we're having a drug debate here, we're talking about things like not hurting the police, not doodling the police, but if there's a case, if there's a crime, and the place where the crime is committed is like a prison, who, how much, why does it have to be involved?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0063par0433	Let's not question those who possess it!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0064par0434	President, I was in the prison he was talking about, and I want to answer it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0065par0435	Wait a minute... Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0066par0437	Mr. President, I'm not going to tell you again to have a long December 19th debate here, but I'm going to make another reference to the veracity of the situation. There is a key speech by Mr. Erdoğan before the Syrian war began, he shared a video -- probably being misled himself -- and it was footage of an intervention in Syrian prisons, and Mr. Erdogan's fiction at the time set on top of it: in a country such as this intervention in the prisons, in a country with such violence, such extreme force -- the opposition, of course, would rise, react, and it would lead to civil war. Later, it was the defence of Assad's administration that the videos were old, that they were images of prisons in Syria, but that they were old. Now, it's one thing to remember what a sensitive subject this prison is, to punish those who remain in prison, but I think it's something else to be treated as a human being in prison. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0067par0440	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0068par0441	Mr. Chepni, on this matter, I give my word to the members of the group. What do you want to talk about?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0067par0442	Yeah, it's kind of a tease, 'cause...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0069par0443	Who did I pick on?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0067par0444	I was in the prison he was talking about, in Umraniye. As someone who's experienced the operation...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0070par0445	Okay, but that's not really the point right now. So the group's deputy presidents want to speak on the basis of a witness's speech.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0067par0446	The weapons mentioned were not there.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0070par0447	If we open up a path like this, I mean, on every subject...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0071par0448	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0070par0449	Mr. Akbasoglu, do you have a request?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0071par0450	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0070par0451	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0071par0453	Thank you, Mr. President. Very valuable lawmakers, I'd like to make a statement regarding the recent statements. Of course, two of our soldiers were killed in Operation Return to Life on December 19, 2000, in that intervention. Of course, it's the government's job to maintain the order of prisons. In that sense, terrorist organizations are responsible for what happened there. Such an intervention has been involved as terrorist organisations have broken the peace and revolted in prisons. In this regard, I hereby remind you again that everyone obeys the rules of the state to the letter.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0072par0460	Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Deputy Muharrem Men. Here you go, Mr. Man. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0073par0464	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the 7th Amendment. I salute the High Council. Today, forty years ago, the day of the December 19th Maras massacre. In the Maraş massacre, not only did the homes get a cross, but the people get a cross. No massacre can be accepted -- let it be done by whomever it is done -- because democracy's subject is human. He didn't say Turk-Kurd, he didn't say Alevi-Sunni, he didn't say Christian-Muslim, he didn't say rich-poor, he said human. For him, we must always put human love, tolerance, peace, and brotherhood first. Yesterday was December 18, the murder of Necip Hablemitoglu 16 years ago. A scientist, a teacher, was unfortunately murdered 16 years ago because the fetullahist pointed out the construction. Today, December 19, 2018, nine years ago, Ergenekon, unfortunately arrested unjustly in the sledgehammer plots, then released for the second time, when they came to arrest him, at home, holding his gun to his head, and the 9th year of the death of Ali Tatar. Yes, Ali Tatar, because he was struggling with the Fetullahist structure and mentality, took his life in an honorable manner as an officer of democracy in this republic. Who held the weapon of injustice to the head of Ali Tatar, and who? Who set up those plots with that structure? Don't those who run the country, those who appointed that period, have legal, conscientious, political responsibilities? Unfortunately, no; they are not on trial; and here in the Silivri dungeons at the time, a minister appointed by your president, Mr. Ergenekon, who could not stand up and fight against the Fetullahist plots while his comrades were being placed in an innocent place, addressed the High Assembly, waving a finger at Parliament. I wish he'd wave that finger at the Fetullahists who once surrounded the Turkish Armed Forces. If only Ergenekon could shake that finger in the sledgehammer's conspiracy to put his comrades in prison. If we as lawmakers call the strong Parliament, the powerful Parliament -- the political power centers of all the world's advanced democracies -- we have to protect the House's reputation together; not the appointed, but the elected.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0074par0469	And we've seen people waving their fingers at the president here.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0073par0470	Dear lawmakers, we are the chosen ones, we can make the most severe criticism of each other, but an appointed man cannot wave a finger at Parliament.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0074par0471	He can't throw it at the president.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0073par0472	Dear lawmakers, budget means democracy, budget means law, justice. Unfortunately, even the Court today, even the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, can't control the budget; let alone the supervision of taxpayers, let alone the accountability; none of this exists. Since the right of sovereignty has already been handed over, since the division of forces has been broken down, on April 16, 2017, the majority of a budgetary right will accept this budget, and what if it rejects it? The previous budget has already been increased. What's in this budget, valuable MPs? In this budget, the palace's budget, which represents the executive, amounted to $845 million in the previous year, was raised to $2 billion, 818 billion in old money, which is $2,818 billion; it was increased by 233 per cent. The presidential salary has also been increased by 26 per cent, and has become 74,500 liras. Why am I sharing all this? We need to look at the citizen's budget with this data. Today we have seven million people working for minimum wage, below the poverty line and minimum wage. There are 1,800,000 people working under minimum wage. That's the citizen's budget. You know, there's a very famous tea bagel account, and here it is today, at the coming point, a family of five, three meals -- morning, noon, evening -- only if it's fed with tea and bagels -- which is not food -- minimum wage, minimum wage, a month's minimum wage. Now, as asked in the past, you, as legislators, why do you support and support this conduct, this cruel government, and why do you support it? We need to ask you why you support a citizen who can't condemn millions of people in a tea bagel. Look, since we talked about the budget, the treasure was handed over to the groom, delivered to the groom. And the groom, unfortunately, is a monument to vanity, a monument to vanity. We're looking at a budget, a budget that's surrendered to the interest lobby. You'll see when you look at the budget this year, this year's interest rate is 72 billion, 72 quadrillion with old money. In 2018, interest costs rose by 30 per cent, 30 per cent; 72 billion liras. What's the interest rate in 2019? 117 billion, 117 quadrillion with old money. We've just been mentioned here in England, London. Why have you often been to London? It was delivered to a handful of London-based interest lobbys because Turkey, unfortunately. We're dealing with a budget that serves the lenders, loan sharks, not the citizens. Unfortunately, the Ponzi scheme created by debt has come to an end. Even public assets are being taken out of control of the Treasury and transferred to the Entity Fund. Why? For debt, those public goods, public assets will be guaranteed, the presence of the nation. In the meantime, it is said: "Don't go out on the street. Don't protest the wrongs. Don't say you're hungry. Don't use your right to democratic protest. I remind you of Article 34 of the Constitution. Yes, everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive march without permission, and no one can prevent it. Mr. President, it's impossible for a man to stay on the street when he's already out on the street, which is thousands of guards, hundreds of convoys of vehicles, and when he's out on the street, there's no people left on the street, but we're on the street. We're on the street and we're gonna be on the street. A politician can't threaten a citizen, no matter who he is. The threat to one person has turned to an entire society, and we must never forget it, dear lawmakers. Look, indirect tax is unfair tax, there's indirect data in this budget. This budget is a total disappointment, and it doesn't meet any expectations of society. You left the country with a heavy economic crisis. I'll give you an example: the net exchange position deficit is 130 billion dollars in 2003, $450 billion in net exchange positions today, even though there's a $200 billion capital intake, even though there's $60 billion in privatisation revenue. Why is the budget like this? Because justice has collapsed. Where there's no justice, there's no economic growth, there's no development, there's no budget, there's no food, there's no work, there's no bread. In this country, the railroads collapse, the children die, the mines collapse, the workers die, the viaducts collapse, people die. But you broke their conscience because justice collapsed. No one's being questioned, no one's answering; that's the problem. Our basic problem is that we can't establish the legal state, but we've damaged its foundation; that's the problem. That's why the Speaker's newspaper writers are being sued. Now, I'm going to give you a few examples. You'll give me time, won't you, Mr. President? Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0075par0480	It can be cut, just a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0073par0482	Look, take a look at the Speaker's indictment. He says: "This organization's activities have been evaluated by the constitutional institution, the National Security Council, and decisions have been made on the National Security Council that the fight against this organization should continue on various dates. " In 2004, the National Security Agency had made these assessments, making these decisions, and fighting this structure," he said. See what Emin Desertasaş wrote in June 20, 1999 -- not in 1999 -- that he realized long before the state --: "The two features of Fetollah and the congregation stand out: the staffing of the state, especially the estate and the courthouse; everything must be done secretly, under the straw. Fetullah is going cautiously. Justice, the prosecutors of the Republic, have been watching all this for years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll put you through.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0076par0485	Say hello, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0077par0486	I gave you an extra minute, please, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0073par0487	1999, even the state's National Intelligence Agency and General Staff discovered it in 2004. Now this man is on trial for helping him, he is not a member of the organization, but to help him. We all know who helped this organization in this country. I pay my respects and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0077par0490	Thank you. Now, speaking for the individuals...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0078par0492	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0077par0493	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0078par0496	Mr. President, thank you. He's just made some really unfortunate descriptions, Mr. Speaker, which I really don't think he is, because he's a lawyer. The House Orders to use a clean language and not engage in personality. But what he just said about our Finance Minister is unacceptable, and I would like to express that there should be no personal trial. Of course, policies can be criticised, and there is a complete freedom in that regard, and he has the right to criticize them as he wishes, but he should not be dealing with the individual. I would also like to inform you that 16 years ago, 72 percent of our vault was in debt, 29 per cent were in debt; 86 per cent of our tax revenues were in interest; 10 per cent now go to interest. It has to be seen where we come from.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0079par0500	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0078par0501	In the framework of the new Economy Programme and the total struggle with inflation, it is clear that the economic attacks in August have actually been well-requited, that the current deficit has been reduced by increased in both exports and tourism during the three months, and that the expected figure at the end of the year is down to 30 billion dollars, and so on and so on, if Allah wills, all measures have been taken, and there has been positive improvements. In this regard, we would also like to remind our friends that our president has always done business among the people, seeking the approval of the people, seeking the approval of the people, and therefore has been in power for sixteen years. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0080par0505	Mr. Altay, do you have a commitment request?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0081par0506	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0080par0507	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0081par0509	Now, my colleague said that the language used by our member of our group -- which is our vice president -- was not clean, but it did not refute the claims. However, what he said about Mr. President and his son-in-law -- who he delivered the Treasury to -- is a public and accepted characterization. If the language our congressman is speaking is not a clean language, then we're not going to use any clean language at this time because we're telling the truth. The sun doesn't roll with clay. What financial evidence do you deny? No. Sir, why did he call the president a didictator? The dictator is called a didictator, and we, personally, have been calling the President a didictator for four years, and so have others. We showed you the Turkish Language Association dictionary.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0080par0511	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0081par0512	Anyone who takes over all government powers is called the "diktator," friends, and Erdogan is the dictator in this frame. That's not new, we've told you before, you don't usually move. Your mood is changing parallelly, based on the state of the President's mood, so if the President is nervous, you're nervous, you're relaxing the President. You can maintain order according to the President, but we cannot maintain order according to the President. We'll criticize you, I told you yesterday, I told you yesterday.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0082par0513	That's not criticism, but is it criticism to say "dictator"? It's not, it's simplicity.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0081par0514	Mr. Congressman, in politics, I've registered the concept of the "diktator" as not an insult to the deputy speaker of the session of that period, who belongs to the EC PARTY group. What was said to the late Ozal, and to the late Demirel? I'm against insults, Congressman, and insults are one thing, but politics has a language.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0082par0515	It's an insult.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0081par0516	You're asking for applause, you're asking for compliments. Does the opposition ever compliment power? Where in the world has he been?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0083par0518	Come on, let's call it the National Chief.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0084par0519	He does the right things, the right things, Mr. Engin, the right things.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0081par0520	We're telling the truth. All of what Mr. Man said...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0083par0521	Let's make a deal with the National Chief, and let them call it the National Chief.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0085par0522	Mr. Altay, shall we turn on the microphone?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0081par0523	Let's open it, sir. Let's finish it. We won't use all of it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0085par0524	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0081par0525	Come out, Mr. Man, you have claimed this is wrong. Say, Mr. Man, you have claimed this is wrong. No, you're not saying that: use clean language. The language is a very clean language, and you can't adjust the style of Parliament. Recep Tayyip Erdogan can adjust, threaten journalists, threaten us, but not if you are affected by him and attempt to adjust to Parliament. Everyone here uses the right from the Constitution and from the nation to the very end. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0086par0528	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0087par0529	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0086par0531	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, we have responded to Mr. Muharrem's talks. And to answer my colleague's remarks, we've been running together for 16 years, we've been running together. There are no dictators in an election.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0088par0535	No, it's not that, it's not that.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0086par0536	In a place where there's a dictator, it's not called a didictator, it's 53 percent...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0088par0537	Look, Hitler made a choice.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0086par0538	Guys, look, we listened! What you're saying, we're not making a sound.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0089par0539	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0086par0540	Dear friends, we know how to listen, we know how to talk.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0090par0541	Don't provoke.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0086par0542	Yes, dear friends, look, I'm talking calmly, and I'm saying that we went to the election together. There's democracy in the country. Sovereignty is the friends of the people unconditionally. We've all come to the public on equal terms.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0091par0543	Are you sure it's even?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0092par0544	Demirtaş was in prison.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0086par0545	What's everyone been saying for 16 years? [[Noises]] ON WHAT equal terms?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0093par0548	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0086par0549	It says "AK PARTY," "AK PARTY," "AK PARTY." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, please, be a gentleman, be a bit of a Democrat.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0093par0553	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0094par0554	What equality are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0095par0555	Demirtaş was in prison!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0093par0556	Friends... we have a friend we promised, Mr. Kaya, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0096par0557	Guys, you really have to be a gentleman, be a Democrat.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0095par0558	Exactly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0097par0559	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0098par0560	Well, you might not like it, so what?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0099par0561	You have to be respectful to the public, you have to be democratic.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0100par0562	Exactly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0099par0563	You've been thinking about fascists ever since.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0100par0564	That's right.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0099par0565	Must have been since the dictatorship.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0100par0566	That's right.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0099par0567	So please don't waver here, don't empty your own minds. Do not make any more out of your own history than it is in your own minds. Respect the nation, respect the elections, respect democracy, respect the right and truth in this place, where the nation's will is at its disposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0101par0570	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0102par0571	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0103par0572	Mr. Altay, do you have a request again?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0102par0573	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0103par0574	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0102par0575	Eight times, eight times he picked on her and insulted her.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0104par0577	You're welcome.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0102par0578	I'll tell you, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0104par0579	You're welcome.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0102par0580	Be democratic. He said, "Be respectful of the people." He said, "Don't be a fascist."
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0105par0581	But who did he tell? He addressed the General Assembly. He had the right to answer without taunting all of us.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0106par0583	All of us, all of us.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0105par0584	General Kurula, General Kurula...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0107par0585	Okay, so it turns out...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0105par0586	No offense.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0107par0587	Okay, no promises. Mr. Akbasoglu said what he just said to everyone who was involved in politics, including Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and that's how we understood it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0105par0590	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0108par0591	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0109par0592	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0105par0593	Wait a minute... Dear Man...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0110par0595	Sir, it's 30 seconds to report because my name came up.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0105par0596	Please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0110par0597	Mr. Vice President of the group has declared that I do not use a clean language, and I would strongly deny it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0111par0598	You're saying it's a monument.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0110par0599	▪ A monument is a political criticism. Look, it's a political criticism.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0111par0600	You call it the Dictator.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0110par0601	If the President thinks of his son-in-law, mothers and fathers think of their children in this country. Fathers can't afford to give their children an allowance. In a painting like this, it's a political criticism if you describe the economy in terms of expressions such as a monument.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0111par0602	You say cruel government, and we say they're not true.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0110par0603	Of course it's cruel management. Mr. Erdogan, what did he say when he was doing the tea bagels? Of course it's cruel management.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0112par0604	Dear friends, let's not talk mutually. It's on the record, Mr. Man.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0110par0605	Wouldn't it be cruel to rule that condemned people to tea bagels? These are political criticisms, not insults, they're a clean language. I also want to remind you that we are legislators, lawmakers; Parliament's duty is to protect the interests of the people, not the ministers. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0113par0609	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0114par0610	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0113par0612	However, I would like to remind Mr. Akbasoglu to make a historical statement. One: Franco is a dictator, Hitler is a dictator, Mussolini is a dictator, but every system led by them has a choice. The election is not a sign that these people are not dictators.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0115par0614	Who was the opposition then? Tell me about the opposition.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0116par0615	Don't be unfair to Turkey!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0115par0616	Tell me the opposition, who was the opposition? There was no opposition.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0117par0617	So keeping election and dictatorship together is a miscalculation. I'm just saying that to remind you of this scientific discovery. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0118par0619	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0119par0621	Now they ask the camel, "Why is your neck crooked?" He said, "What's right about me?" What am I supposed to fix?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0117par0623	Don't fix it. Let's keep it that way. I say keep it that way, don't fix it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0119par0624	Dear friends, you have to make the right comparisons. Controversy is not right. Thus, the nation shall establish its will in the polls, and the state of the Republic of Turkey shall rule from 1950 to 1950, according to what the nation has said in multi-party life, and it must be respected for the nation. This nation will not and will not keep any dictator. But everyone must respect the will of this saint and noble nation that has brought those who have served him to power for sixteen years.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0120par0626	Thank you. Dear friends, since I have promised our members of the group, according to 60, I'd say it'll be limited to a minute if there's a commitment request.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0121par0628	You're very democratic today, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0122par0629	Mr. President, two days ago, you were warning the screamers. I invite you on the same mission. You warned the Joint Chiefs of Staff two days ago.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0120par0634	Now, Kastamonon MP Metin Çelik will speak on behalf of the individuals. Here you go, Mr. Steel. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes. [[Whistling]] Guys, there's a preacher on the stand. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0123par0641	Mr. President, I salute the high-value lawmakers, the General Assembly, and our beloved nation. I made a personal pledge on the 7th Amendment. This is the 17th budget of our EC PARTY. From the early years when the EC PARTY came to power, our nation has seized every area in the past as a problem. We're looking back, and the problems in health before the AK PARTY have soon come to a certain stage, and the problems have been resolved one by one. I'll give you one example: Look, when the AK PARTY came to power, there were only 600 emergency ambulances in Turkey, and now, praise be to God, that number is over 5,000. But what the AK PARTY did in the area of transportation. When the EC PARTY arrives, there are 6,000km of divided roads in Turkey. We've now added 20,000 kilometers of divided roads. Turkey had 26 airports, which has now reached 56 airports. One of them is Kastamon Airport. What is the most fundamental, characteristic feature of PARDI budgets? I say: Education and health are the budgets that are left most in the early stages. Look, the AK PARTY has improved our people's welfare levels since they first came to power. In proportion to our national income, our national income has tripled, and from 250 billion dollars to 800 billion dollars per person, the income per person has exceeded $10,000. Inflation soon reached single-digit figures, thanks to the economic programmes that have been implemented. Turkey has delivered exports today from $36 billion to $170 billion.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0124par0647	Dear friends, there's a buzzing in the living room. Please, we can't hear the preacher.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0123par0648	So, what are these investments made of? Didn't Turkey used to have such opportunities? Of course there was. But as our deputy chairman of the group has just stated, more than 80 percent of these budgets in the Turkish Grand National Assembly were going to what? Of course he was going for interest. During that period of sixteen years, praise be to God, our interest rate was 10 percent. Dear lawmakers, in the month of May 2013, when such large services were being performed, during the month when we paid the final installment of our debt to the $23.5 billion IMF, where interest was sunk by 4.5 per cent of the month of May 2013, the activities of the Travel Park, the Expedition took place. After him, a 17-25-December coup attempt. After him, it's pothole activity. After him, the biggest betrayal Turkey has ever seen was the July 15 coup attempt. They've been trying to bring Turkey down with systematic attacks for the past five years. With the strong leadership of our President and the strong support that our nation has given him, given us, the AK PARTY, we've acknowledged all of this, we've avoided it. Dear lawmakers, those who couldn't bring Turkey to its knees with them last wanted to put Turkey in economic difficulty using the economic instruments they had, but the measures our government has taken show us that this has failed, and those who hope to help will remain in their desires. Today's threats to Turkey are not one, more than one. They're using subcontractor terror organizations to tire Turkey, trying to slow Turkey down.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0125par0653	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0123par0654	The ring of fire around us, the outside threats, the developments, Turkey is not tied down by them, it continues to take the necessary steps decisively. And we're doing that by getting the locality rate in the defence industry, which was only 15 percent in 2002, to 65 percent today, and we're doing our security policies more easily. As in the previous budgets, I respectfully salute you all, as in the 2019th Central Management Budget Law, asking that our offer also bring blessings for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0125par0657	On behalf of him, Iğdır MP Yasar Montenegro. Here you are, Mr. Montenegro.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0126par0660	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 7th article of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2019. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Science and culture are the basis of all civilizations and societies. In every rising society, the leadership of science is obvious. In accordance with universal principles, universities are vital institutions that have a significant impact on the future of society, where science is first produced and shared. It's a fact that our universities take on the engine role in their development, economic, social and cultural development of the region. The development of universities established in the region, based on this conscious movement, must be our priority. As of today, we have seven faculty, three institutes, two institutes of higher education and four university of applied sciences, a university that raises students, a total of 7,600 students. Despite all that, a law school, a faculty of education, a medical school at Iğdır University remains unopened. We know that the necessary applications have been made, and I would like to address the authorities here: Friends, Iğdır is a province of real importance to our country because of its geopolitical position. In our Turkish province, which is the Turkish face, it is important for our country to invest in education, health, tourism, transportation in all areas. Since education is the beginning of everything, then we must take all the necessary steps to get our Iğdır University to the proper places. Let's do whatever it takes to open these requested sections. As with every province, our Iğdır would need a more comprehensive, more equipped university. Please, let's not rule this out. Of course, building only university in the country does not end everything when we consider higher education in general. The necessary infrastructure must have been done. We also know that there are some issues in our current structure that need to be solved, one of which is housing. Yes, it's unfortunate that students who come to the university are able to provide housing there, our housing facilities are inadequate. Our students who don't live in the dorm, especially our female students, are facing many challenges. We even run into students who can't register because they can't find a place to stay. Thus, our students need to be satisfied with this housing shortage, and our state dorms need to be made more widespread. One of the most important problems in our university is the academic deficit. It is known that our number of teachers is inadequate, as well as that there is a major imbalance in the distribution of professors among universities. To achieve balance, the first step must be to be distributed equally to all universities and to be able to work with them according to the capacity of the faculty. In our rapidly developing and growing universities, our goals should be to create quality education opportunities, to improve the quality of education services and to improve the efficiency of administrative operations in light of science and technological development. In order to achieve our goals, the academic and administrative staff must be dealt with as quickly as possible. Dear lawmakers, education is our essential. The source of human beings is our essentials.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0127par0666	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0126par0667	You can have all kinds of subterranean resources in the world, but if you don't have a qualified human resource that can't process these riches and process them into production, we can't talk about improving and reaching the level of complex civilization. We're always saying that we can increase in quantity, which is important for the development of a country, but we can't talk about development and progress when we don't support quantity with qualified individuals. Members of parliament, it is only with highly qualified people who know how to turn to a thought, an idea, an idea, to a goal, to be dedicated with loyalty and sincerity. Qualifying education is the best way to win this quality. With these thoughts and feelings, I desire to take all necessary steps, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0128par0671	Thank you. Dear friends, this completes the conversation. Now, we're going to do a Q-A-Station in ten minutes, five minutes, five minutes, answer. I'll start the questions. Mr. Sagittarius...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0129par0676	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. Today is December 19, 2018. A hundred years ago today, the first bullet against the imperialists who invaded our country was fired in the village of Hatay Fourways Karakese. In the face of atrocities that began with the invasion of the occupied French army, Mehmet Sergeant and his friends launched the national struggle against the lives and honor of the locals. The first bullet against the invaders was confirmed five months before the Greek army in İzmir by the Chief of Staff of the Military and Strategic Ethics (ATASE) in 1992, when Hasan Tahsin was thrown in Dötyol. The first bullet fired by Sergeant Mehmet in the four-way has sparked the fuse of our national war of independence. May their souls rest in peace, and may their places be in heaven.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0130par0679	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0131par0680	Thank you, Mr. President. Through you, I ask: The last example of handing the state over to a friend: the daughter of Public Chief Justice Honor Malkoc, the wife of Justice Minister Abdulhamit Gül, was appointed to court on December 15th, after having spent most of his five-year life as a civil servant. The minister's wife, who started working at Ankara Metropolitan Municipality but completed almost five years of service without going to work, started with an architect's staff at jet speed, starting on December 15th. How do you judge the appointment of a minister's wife to the palace when we have so many unregistered people waiting for work? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0132par0683	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0133par0684	Thank you, Mr. President. Just yesterday, I was talking about the problems our Adana had in the economy. Sadly, the results of the 2018 High School Passing Exam revealed Adana's critical situation in education. Adana was the 61st in our 81 counties, or 20th in the last. Unfortunately, that's the result of a full political reference, an out-of-the-art training in our province. With your intermediary, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of National Education: Is there any part of this failure by those who have been known and appointed to be executives, known by their proximity to the government? The LGS results, once again, are clear pictures of the collapse of the 4+4+4 educational system. Both teachers and students are unhappy. The architect of this failure, unfortunately, is the Ministry and the incompetent executives. Failure politicians and executives must be accountable. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0134par0688	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0135par0689	Thank you, Mr. President. On 31 March 2019, there were serious allegations of voter log change for local elections. It is worrying to know that 1,300 people have been added to the voter list in the district of Ulukışla, Niğde Province, on the June 24th election. Why is the sudden increase in the number of voters in Ulukışla district, with a population of 5,800? Why is there a number of voters who have almost passed their population? Elections should not be debated today; this voter increase must be examined. In remote places, these impressive applications produce doubts about local election results. In places such as Ulukış, where the Republican People's Party will win the election, such a source should be abandoned from its undetermined electorate collections. Such regulations are unacceptable when the election is four months old. I'm warning the authorities about this, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0134par0691	Mr. Ünver...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0136par0692	We don't have any ministers to implement this budget. We're dealing with the members of the Plan and Budget Commission as part of the system. In an environment where there are no representatives of the administration, AKP ranks are being questioned, and the Commission's president answers. This is where the freaky system, which you call the presidential government system, because you're afraid of the nation, brings us. Moreover, the Commission, which does not answer the questions of the opposition, does not answer the questions of the budget. The Commission, which does not answer the questions of the opposition, answers the questions that sometimes require a comprehensive mathematical calculation, as it did last night. Looks like we're dealing with another theft of a question. You've turned legislature into a full play. What should I ask you? At least let me ask you: Did you steal the questions the AKP MPs asked, and you can answer them in a minute?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0137par0694	What are you gonna do with our question? Look at your own problem. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0138par0695	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0139par0696	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. President announced the 3,600 additional indicators to teachers and officers before the election. The second 100 Daily Action Plan also contains these 3600 additional indicators. That's what we demand. Now, the question I'm asking is, before or after the election? After the election, there's a third hundred-day plan of action. My next question is, are there going to be paid teachers? Is there enough resources in the budget for that? We demand that our paid teacher friends be recruited as well as 3600 additional indicators. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0140par0700	Mr. Tujaki...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0141par0701	Mr. President, thank you. The Labor Youth organises a panel on the Economic Effects of the Crisis in ODTÜ, one of the participants today is Mr. Selin Sayek Böke. Ali Kenanoğlu and Murat Çepni, our deputies, will be attending the event, which will be held due to the anniversary of the 19th December. The university administration has closed all departments, students with exams cannot enter the school and department, and the dorms are said to be closed from the inside. I also condemn this notion, Mr. President, that the antidemocratic practice should be abandoned immediately... and that it would risk shutting down the opposition.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0140par0703	We're moving on to the answer process. Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0142par0705	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0143par0706	Questions have been asked to the ministers, report to the ministers in writing, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0142par0707	I'd like to start with Mr. Univer. If you'll excuse me. Mr. Üsver, if you had come to the Plan and Budget Commission and followed the work there in the legislature process and in the budget process, you would have seen how thoroughly these processes are happening, all these issues have been discussed. Of course, you will not reinvent America. Right now, I have about 1,500 questions and answers. Where do you have it? These are all questions raised during talks at the Plan and Budget Commission, and these are the answers. If you'll excuse me, I've completed his 12th year in the Plan and Budget Commission, and as a person who's done his 13th budget, I've been waiting for you to appreciate the fact that both the issues are in control and what may or may not be available. Thank you, first of all. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Second, if you'll excuse me, the presidential budget. So we're going to one, 232 percent up, 232 percent up. So, let's see, why has it increased, what's in this presidential budget? No friend of ours, or any of our friends who ask, is saying what's in it, all he's saying is he's up 232 percent. Are you curious, Mr. Üsver? Look, for example, the office's transfer to the presidency, and its own additional duties are the main reason for the increase in budgets. About 50 per cent of the presidential budget will be used to carry out the duties taken over by the Prime Minister. In addition, three pencils in the budget include areas that require serious spending. The first is the work run by the Security Affairs General Directorate. This is especially an international activity -- i.e. Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina -- which is a grant used by the National Ministry of Defence, General Staff and security units for support and protection activities, as well as by the Ministry of Interior, which has nothing to do with the President's personal expenditures. This grant had previously been within the prime minister's framework, and now the prime minister's duties have been in the presidential budget, since they are now the president's. Secondly, in the event of disaster in any province in Turkey, aid in that province is being collected under the title of emergency assistance, which is in the prime minister's budget, and 150m in emergency support costs have been envisioned, including all expenses related to it. This is part of the budget. Finally, there are newly established offices and funding for policy boards. The finance office has been prepared to receive additional funds, including 5 million, 8.5, 70 million for digital transformation, and 150 million for investment offices, which were first included in the presidential budget. So if we're talking 232 percent increase, we need to know exactly what this is, and we need to say something according to it, I salute you all. I won't answer anything else.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0144par0714	National education in Adana...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0145par0715	Thank you. We're almost there. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0146par0718	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the item we're talking about is to organise backup funds. Some of the members have voiced criticism of the reserve grant, saying it is not necessary. The actions of the past 16 years, the completed projects, we all know, but the concept of this food allowance needs to be opened a little bit more. Mr. Commissioner, what projects have been completed under reserve funding? Explain it to us briefly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0147par0722	If you'll excuse me, I'll answer them at the next thing, and I'll make my preparations.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit01spe0148par0723	You answer in writing, over. Dear friends, this concludes the question-answer process. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0148par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019. Commission? He's in position. I'm having him read the 8th article. The public administrations, which are included in CSIs (I) and (II), are part of the Law No. 8 ▪ (1) 5018; A) Payments to people who will be bought or employed for a period of no more than a month in the year, provided they are limited to their beelike work, B) Payment to those who have been bought part-time service under the legislation concerned, C) 5/6/1986 payment to students who have vocational education in candidates, apprentices and businesses under Article 25 of the Code for Professional Education No. 3308, ) Payments to those who have been appointed for tuition in accordance with their regulations and have no official duties, The budgets (01.4) can not exceed the funds in the economic code (01.4) and cannot be invested in the economic code, except in other schemes of budgets (except in the transactions between them and the transfers made under the second joke of Article 6 of the Article 6), and cannot be transferred and cannot be spent overfunded. However, it is the President's authority to transfer the sums necessary for payment (c) to the payment of the academic jury's fee from the arrangements involved in this economic code. (2) The transports on this Law (T) table can only be obtained by the President's decision on the proposal of the ministry on the condition that it should be subject to very urgent and mandatory conditions. In addition to Law (3) 5018 (I) and (II) the public administrations, permanent workers and temporary workers, can employ a number and/or a length of time that will not exceed the funds included in the economic codes of their budget (01.3) (02.3). It is the President's authority to meet the funds due to collective agreements on these workers, payment of notice and severance pay, a minimum wage and an insurance premium increase, and to transfer grants. The economic codes mentioned in this joke cannot be paid for in any way (except between the transfers between the economic codes and between the units for these codes), as well as labour fees and/or overwork fees from other arrangements of the budget can't be paid. The restrictions on the transfer of funds in this joke do not apply to TBITAK on the condition that they be transferred from their budget arrangements. The expense authorities of public administrations, which are part of Law 5018 (I) and (II), are obliged to do business programmes according to the budget prescribed for the extra work of permanent workers and temporary workers, not overstaying that allowance and/or overstaying their work for the next year due to extra work and/or more work. No grant can be made to pay overtime and/or overwork fees, except for transfers due to the earthquake, fire, flood, landslide, rock falling, overwork due to the President's decisions, which will be carried out due to avalanches and so on. (5) No international agreements can be made by public administrations and private budgetary administrations under the general budget, and no payment can be made under the name of membership due to the presidential's accession fee, without the appropriate view of providing the necessary grant to international institutions, except for international agreements, law and decrees. (6) The 5th joke sentence does not apply for international agreements, laws and decrees by the Ministry of Trade and the Treasury and Finance (including payment of participation) on behalf of the Republic of Turkey (including international organisations). (7) The education and recreation facility, run by the central administration of the public administration, is covered by the costs of homes, day care homes, day care centers, sports facilities and so on, and revenues from the operating of these private facilities. In these areas, new employees will be employed for the first time in 2019 to be paid for the return capital and funds with the central management budget. (8) Private budgetary administrations and private budgetary administrations under the general budget take the necessary measures to spend more than the amount of funds assigned to their budgets, 3.3.3.6- Representative and Credit Expenses, 03.7-Representationals, Real Estates, Rights Acquisitions, Maintenance and Maintenance Expensessionses. The amount of funds to the regulations referred to by these administrations will not exceed 10 per cent of the initial grants in the fifth part of Article 6 of the Law, as well as the sum of the funds to be added to the budgets. However, in the case of need, the President is authorized to transfer beyond 10 per cent of the initial grants of these economic codes and to add funds as part of Article 6 of this Law as part of its fifth joke. As part of the 3.3-Road Expenses and 03.7-Restrictions from higher education institutions based on the fifth joke of Article 6 do not apply in additions to the economic codes for the 3rd and 6th article. Anthalia MP Tuba Vural Pekal on behalf of the 8th Amendment PARTI Group... Here you are, Mr. Vural Alkal. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0149par0023	Mr. President, in recent years, there has been a similar question in the language of almost everyone: Where and how will our sons, whom we strive to study and study, find work with the diploma they received? As a result of the 2018 High School Companies Exam, the knitting student quota, scheduled for 840,286, was almost fully filled. Now, I ask you, what kind of work do you have for these college-educated young people to do when they graduate not to become the young unemployed army? Just the other day, Mr. President mentioned the existence of 8 million Turkish universities on his trip to Germany, when the Chancellor said he had 3 million universities in his country. In addition to this memory, we may be weak, but in five or ten years, we will capture them and pass them as a quality. What plans will our lack of quality on screens resolve? Are the graduates of all the universities that have been opened all over Turkey just to contribute economically to the city where they are founded to become just one young unemployed statistic in their TİİK studies? Today, a number of departments have been opened at health care universities, creating an army of graduate unemployed. There are major problems in the employment of health workers today. Like physical therapists, pathologists, paramedics, radiology technicians, O.R. techs and dozens of them. Getting these health workers to work will lead to higher standards and quality of health care. Many of our fellow paramedics, understaffed and overwhelmed by heavy labor, have come to me from all parts of the country and expressed their problems. And I, as a doctor MP, have promised to address the problems of our fellow graduates, who have opened up a total of 27,000 staffs, around 470,000. The number of graduate physical therapists has increased by more than 300 per cent. Today, there are 25.420 graduates of physical therapy. A total of 1,334 physical therapists have been appointed since 2012. Of the 25,000 graduates, 1,334 have been appointed. Physical therapists who have recently seen a rapid increase in graduates are anxious by the number of appointments. The presence of 166 physical therapists at the 700 elderly and disabled care centers of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services is calculated as 1 physical therapist for each 300 people. In addition, physical therapy appointments are scheduled for six months from now in many hospitals. The perfusion technicians I've submitted a parliamentary research motion to also have employment and staff problems. In 2012, the Ministry of Health applied a one-time certification programme and added a license to the definition of a profession to those of our colleagues who were qualified to assist in cardio and vascular surgery. Students who are still studying at public universities and private universities and will be enrolled in this department in later years have already been declared dysfunctional by the Ministry of Health. In addition, many of the rights granted to 37 departments that have two years of pre-license training outside the perfusion technician department are not given to our friends, the condition of having a certificate is applied, and any door they can get a certificate from is unfortunately not shown. We demand the removal of all obstacles that stand in the way of perfusion technicians, who have only been opened to 53 staffs this year, who have been trained in pre-license training. As another group, there are first and first and emergency department graduates in 2018 with only 1,160 staff members, 50,000 appointments waiting. Interestingly, the first and first aid (paramedicic) section is among the most favoured chapters of the pre-license in 2016 and 2017. I'd also like to point out that in critical situations, the paramedics working as a professional health professional who first responds to the patient or the wounded, despite their hard work for 24 hours, their salary is low and they're not taking advantage of their loss. The pathology lab also has problems with pathology technicians that allow human tissue and bodily fluids to be ready for microscopic examination. We have over 10,000 friends who graduated from Pathology, but in 2018, there were only 56. The task description for the arrangement of the job description of health professional groups, dated May 22, 2014, must only be made for pathology and laboratory technicians. Because of the problem of job description, the pathology department's employment area is shrinking due to the work of staff from different areas in the pathology lab. Another group of victims is odiometrists. Health Ministry education and research hospitals organise certified training for the odiometry department. By providing additional training to our sister friends, the certificate is made by the odiometrists. Our friends are known to specialize in their own fields. Just as it is known that odiometrists can't do the work of other paramedics with two or three days of training, the task of odiometrists is not a healthy result, it will compromise the credibility of the tests. In 2018, the increase in the number of trained odiometrists given 190 staffs is urgently required to be low and to address the losses caused by the wrong employment policies. I'd also like to talk to you about patient care technicians who have been forgotten among the medical staff and perhaps the first time we've heard of them. In our country, rehabilitation centres where people who can't carry out their physical activities, who can't provide for themselves, and who therefore need the help and care of others are very inadequate. However, patients' care students who are trained to work at these centers are not employed anywhere, including the private sector, due to lack of medical intervention authority in the post-graduate definition. According to the February 27th regulation, home care technicians should be in health care at home. After the appointment of the first graduates, the department has been shut down due to its mandate. The health ambassadors of the future who graduate every year should get their rights to their job description. Health care at home, which is a part of European standards and is approved to pilot, should move forward in our country and receive the value it deserves. I've also submitted a motion for questions, and the victims of sociologists, psychologists, teachers, and social workers who work for additional classes in the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. They experience huge losses in job security, autonomy rights, education rights, duty rights, rights to leave, wages, institutional identity and staff rights. Finally, dentists, who are envisioned to employ 4,000 people in the posting staff, feel that education in understructured universities is impossible and suffer from failure to plan for the future because of the lack of capacity for appointment. Health Minister Mr. Fahrettin Husband spoke of an appointment to reduce the workload of our medical staff and give our patient a better quality of health care for our patients in the coming months. Emergency medical technicians have announced that they will appoint 6,500 people in areas such as data preparation management, ambulance driving, and in 2019 they will appoint 25,000 medical staff, including practitioners, specialists, dentists, pharmacists. The fact that our friends with the subjects of the appointment issues that we're talking about are not on this list makes us right. If the Ministry of Health has earmarked 823 million resources for vehicles and building costs in the past three years, there is no medical personnel. There is no chance that they will not be appointed on the basis of an appointment. I end my words by demanding that you address the problems of our friends as your own children, and say, "There is no great wealth in health," and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0150par0042	Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Hatay MP Lütfi Spooner. Here you go, Mr. Spooner. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0151par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 8 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly and our humble citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our late Prime Minister Alparslan Türkesh, have often expressed to us the promise of a nation who does not know its history. Today, at the same time, is the 100th anniversary of the first shot against French occupation in our Mediterranean region. A hundred years ago, when the calendar leaves showed December 19, 1918, it allowed the French invasion forces to cease with the besmelled bullets from the Maviser of Sergeant Kara Mehmet (Sergeant) of Kuvacimilliya elements in Hatay Province, to escape the French occupation of the entire region. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, "What will happen in Adana Tren Station?" Ayşe Fitnat Hanım, who says, "What will happen to Hatay?," said Ayşe Fitnat Hanım, "The Turkish home of forty centuries cannot be held captive." We are grateful and grateful to all those who have taken the lead in this direction, who ended the French occupation first, and then established an independent Hatay Republic, and then joined this unique land to Turkey, the first and last President of the independent state of Hatay. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have, in essence, arranged the transition of constitutional amendments adopted by a public vote on April 16, 2017 into the presidential government system, and were elected the first President of the presidential government's system in the elections of June 24, 2018. In the construction of this new government system, Mr. President of the State Garden, there is no doubt a great contribution and effort to the construction of the government's system, which has led to the gathering of our beloved nation around the national realms with its high predictions and courage, and has played a major role in the implementation of the presidential government's system. In this new era of law, Mr. President Bahçeli has expressed the need to act with the spirit of the Cumhur Alliance in order for the presidential government system to be placed on a healthy ground with all its institutions and rules and all the elements of the system. The budget proposal for 2019 is the first budget for the new structure, a model of government in accordance with the historical mission of the Turkish nation and the state tradition of today. I wish that the budget seen by our side, which is in line with the goals set out with the new Economy Programme, should be a blessing to our government, to our nation. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this budget is also of great importance to our country, where regional development policies and the differences in regional development are high with the work conducted within it. Building regional plans and urban development plans across the country should be the basis of regional development policy for implementing a development model that all citizens of the modern world benefit from. In this particular area, Hatay, our constituency area must be re-examined in the municipal development plans, which will be under consideration for the difference in inter-state development. As new investments are planned in Hatay, what Hatay needs, what the Hatays want from the state must be considered. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this ancient land worth fighting for, and the mighty Hatays who live on this land, no doubt deserve the best and the best of everything. As well as the current problems in our average province, Hatay is trying to deal with the extra problem that comes along with the problems between Syria and Turkey. He wants to produce Hatay, create added value and contribute to Turkey's economy. Hatayli wants to work; he wants to work and win and be happy. Hatay watches investments in the districts, envying investments there. In short, Gaziantep, Kahramanmarash, Osmaniye and Adana are eagerly awaiting the arrival of state investments to Hatay. Hatay is not a city of any Middle Eastern country. Hatay stood firm at the side of his state at all times, risked every price for his country, his nation, and paid the price when his place came, a holy land of the Republic of Turkey. The whole of Turkey witnessed how we stood by our government during the Afrin operations. We all remember the dozens of martyrs he's given as a result of bombs thrown across our borders. Even so, no Hatayli had ever evacuated his home, street, neighborhood, and in spite of the bombs that came upon him, he never thought for a moment to change his place. Hatayli is brave, Hatayli is a patriot. It still retains the climate and excitement of the first bullet fired a century ago. The Hatays are productive, but they expect moral support from our government to produce more. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, new investments in Hatay are required to be completed as soon as possible. Farmers in our districts of Kurıkhan, Reyhanlı, Kumlu, expect the Reyhanlı Dam to end quickly to produce more and more in the fertile land of Amik Plain. We are happy to see the dams made by all four sides of Turkey, but we also want this dam, which began years ago and is now in the process of stopping due to funding constraints, to be completed. The Hatay industrialist wants the tunnel project to resuscitate Hassa and the Gulf to build new facilities so that he can get rid of the trouble of searching for land in the Bay of Alexander and benefit from the suitable area for industrial facilities in Hassa County. This project is also a great longing for young unemployed brothers and sisters who are tired of looking for their daily bread in tourist cities. He is tired, frustrated, tired, and wants our government to bring new investments into the region, and thus assess the added value of the product that he produces, which he produced in goldsoluted olives, Erzinite, and the four-way citrus that he raised only enriches the middlemen. The pedestrians want back the tobacco that was taken from him. Hard-working Samandans and Arazians are now waiting for an opportunity to become the city of tourism. Our districts of Fouryol, Belen, Hassa and Defne are waiting for their hospitals to be completed in order to receive better health care. Alexander wants a shipyard for ship maintenance, repairs and production in the Gulf. The Hatays want Ceyhan-Iskenderun Highway to merge with Antioch and Cilvegözü for the relief of traffic locked up in Belen district. The Samandagians are tired of going about 70 miles [10 km] each time to go to Arşaz, waiting for a new route from the beach to drop between 30 and 40 km [30 km]. The Hatays want the high-speed railway line, which is being built at Osmaniye Yürkale, to be merged with the Yürkale, Alexanderun, and the province of Antioch. My Hatayite sports-loving brothers expect the stadium to be completed immediately and a national match to be held at this stadium in terms of great morale in the region. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, and finally, as my fellow citizens have not taken advantage of being the target of rockets thrown out of Afrin, they now rightly wish to have a say in the reconstruction of Afrin. But we regret to follow that while Afrin is being rebuilt, our Hatay companies are being prevented from doing business there, obstacles are being set in their way. If we think that Afrin will even be given a pin, this Hatay must be greeted with it. I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0152par0062	Thank you. Now on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Diryet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0153par0067	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I swear to God, I'm going to greet the General Assembly now, but it's going to be a little bit of a bow. And when the budget is being discussed, the interest in the work, that's where it comes in. Dear friends, today is the anniversary of the shooting of 11 children's mother, Taybet İnan, who was 57 years old, three years ago, by snipers in the street. Dear friends, the funeral of Taybet İnan was kept on the street for hours, and the funeral was not allowed. The father-in-law, who tried to take the body, was also shot and killed by his father-in-law, Yusuf İnan.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0154par0069	The PKK shot him.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0153par0070	The family had to watch the funeral through the window for a week. His wife tried to take the funeral by handing him a rope. In the meantime, he was shot in the hand. The other day, his wife makes a statement to a newspaper and there she says: "I wish I had been shot in the heart instead of in my hand. " Your policies forced a man to say so. The funeral of Taybet İnan, left on the street for seven days, was a symbol of your violence, but Mother Taybet's funeral took place in the memory of mankind. It won't be forgotten for three years or three hundred years. Because the funeral left on the street for seven days is actually the honor of mankind, not just the funeral of a Kurdish person or a woman. Thus, the honor of this human race is still 58 in the Noah's neighbourhood of Cleopatra. The street is not removed from the ground. Dear friends, we've been negotiating the budget for days. Does this budget have to have a war, a pressure, a looting budget every year? Can't the budget be prepared to establish peace, equality, justice, to solve the real problems of the country? It continues to severely suppress the demands of Kurds, women, workers, people of Turkey as a whole, to wage war against the people and the people's demands, to consume this country's resources, as it darkens this day, tomorrow. In the face of these policies, Leyla Güven has been on hunger strike for 42 days as a parliamentary speaker. For ten days, we have been trying to preach the voice of Layla Trust during budget talks, and you insist on ignoring that voice. Dear friends, Leyla Güven does not want to stop the isolation in İmralı just for the democratic solution to the Kurdish problem. He also knows that this issue is essential to solving the fundamental problems of the peoples of Turkey. So he's on a hunger strike today to open up blocked political channels to make this country what everyone says is no longer living. Again, Leyla Güven is trying to tell us something with this action. Like he said, he's not doing it because he blessed his hunger strike. Because democratic political channels were shut down, he was forced to strike because he was prevented from doing politics outside. Layla Trust wants to break the darkness that dominates the country. He's trying to tell us that war is unresolved by his actions, or he's not demanding any rights for himself. He's taking responsibility for the democratisation of this country, inviting all of you to take responsibility for all of us. He knows it's necessary to remove the lockdown to solve problems. So the act of war, destruction is not the fate of the peoples, it's the act of calling out, to pave the way for peace. We all know the three-year dialogue and the process of resolving this country. He shows a strong stance, courage, to restore dialogue and stop the bleeding. We invite you to hear his voice, to hear his demands, to have courage. Eventually, dialogue and negotiation are the destination, and all world experiences have proved that once again. Unresolved today is not only the problem of Kurds, women, HDP, but your unresolved insistence is completely surrounded by your policies. So that's your problem at the most. For a hundred years, you've been trying to solve this problem with similar arguments, similar methods, you insist on repeating history, but know that it's going back and forth. If you put aside the arrogance of being capable, you'll see that what this country is coming to is that economic crises, rising violence, social polarization is not independent of that. Look, Turkey is being held captive in international politics, and it's actually the issue under which you have to approach a Russia, an America. It has not already gone beyond propaganda throughout history, and we believe that the policies you have implemented today are tied up in your hands. Dear friends, the life of Layla Güven is just the truth of this geography. It is the summation of the struggle of Kurds as well as the tragedy of women. She's a woman who's spent her life fighting, insisting on peace politics, democratic politics. Adana Küçükdiklı has been the mayor of Urban City and has been arrested in the process. Layla was co-chaired by the Trust Democratic Society Congress, while she was arrested. Leyla Güven has been elected HDP Hakkari MP in prison, and is still being held hostage. If a woman, a mayor, a congressman, a mother with two children, committed her body to a hunger strike in a 55-year-old prison where she was held hostage, no one, especially you can't keep quiet about it. Know that in order to meet Layla Güven's demands, action must be taken immediately, otherwise the plague is on this Parliament. If you don't want to be ashamed of this silence tomorrow, you need to raise your voice today. Dear friends, I'd like to use my last two minutes on my constituency of Pain. Obviously, there are problems with Pain, which will be told so long, but I just want to remind you that you have been in power in Turkey for 16 years, and you have been in power until 2014, and for ten years in the local area of Ağrı. Believe me, in 2014, many of you didn't know where Pain was on the map until we got the municipality, but in 2014, when we began to take power in the local area, your love, your interest, your interest. But as Painfuls, we know that your interest is not in the love of service, but in the love of Painfuls, but in the indigestion of our success there. Hence, this attention is well known to the people of Pain. So, who served and who didn't serve is being closely followed by the Painful, and even here at the General Assembly, the pink paintings you're drawing, they answer with jokes in social media accounts. Therefore, the people of Pain know very well how the extortionist patriarchal mentality works, how it approaches, how it approaches its tongue, its identity. So while the trustees are downloading Kurdish signs, while the daycare centers close their kindergartens, while we are spending two words in Kurdish in parliament as an unknown language, the people of Ağrı know very well that the fact that one candidate has gone and told them that Kurdish should be taught as a mandatory lesson in schools means nothing more than an election propaganda, and that it is a tacit. So lately, a minister is going to Ağrı, a minister is coming. Of course, behind this departure -- we understand from the arrest for our party, our executives -- this is an election campaign, and we know very well how to disable HDP, HDP's activists, its employees, by tying their hands in the election, how to run for election. Dear friends, on this bench again, the ministers and the MPs, as I said about Ağar. As I said, they paint a picture of this dust pink, but I want to show the real face of this picture. I just want to share a few data. Dear friends, it is not a coincidence that, as shown in TÜİKbook's data, Turkey's poorest cities are Kurdish provinces. It is the result of government, governments, Kurds' policies to discipline them with hunger as well as all sorts of political pressures. Before I went against it and started a lynching campaign, I just took a look at the statistics. When you look at the numbers of investment, development and service levels between the western provinces and the eastern provinces, which are close to each other, you'll see this cliff from your own mind.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0155par0084	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0153par0085	Pain has been ranked third among the 81 provinces in terms of socio-improvement for years. Again, ICRU numbers show that more than half the population of Pain is unemployed, and women are much more critical in this regard. Business sources, which are very few in pain, are being pursued by people who are only from the AKP, who are close to the AKP. Look, there's not a day in Ağrı central and boroughs that we haven't had complaints about torpedoing and favouring İKUR. So let's just say that the AKP is exploiting and employing the poverty in Ağrı. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0156par0090	Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Gulizar Bicer Karaca Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. Bicer Karaca. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0157par0094	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to my Republican People's Party group on the 8th article of the budget law proposal's provisions for financial control. I'd like to start by telling the story of 40 dollars for those who have learned the historical truth, I don't know, I haven't seen, I haven't heard. Do you know who the hero of 40 bucks is? When the Republic of Turkey became multiparty and lost from the single party period, you lost. When it was said, "I lost, but democracy won." The hero of Lauzan is Ismet Inönu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The founder of our Republic, President Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, sees one day Prime Minister Inönük and asks: "What is the matter with you?" Mr. Prime Minister Inönu answers thoughtfully: "I come from the Turkish Air Association meeting." They're short 40 bucks in their accounts, and I can't figure out where they gave those 40 bucks. I'm so bored. I've asked the head of the Turkish Air Agency and its executives to find those 40 coins immediately. I've ordered them to re-canvass all accounts. I'm very upset about this. The Prime Minister, who went after 40 coins, answers Ataturk: "So this 40 coin has upset you so much, but you're right, when we started the republic, we needed those 40 coins a lot. 40 coins are lost today, 40 cents tomorrow, 40 lira the next day, then 400 liras, and the rope's loose. Ismet Pasha hasn't left 40 coins behind, the accounts have been scrutinized for days, and in the end 40 coins have been found, and Prime Minister Inönu has taken a comfortable breath. Dear MPs, do you know what the 40 dollars that Ismet Pasha is after is a penny? Yeah, well, you didn't hear wrong; those 40 dollars they've been chasing, they haven't seen in the government's safe for days, they're only worth a penny. (CHP turns) 40 bucks today, 40 cents tomorrow, then $400 today. Dear lawmakers, citizens are stuck in debt; mothers, fathers, wives, children mourn for debts they can't pay, while they themselves have a house and a service that floats in pleasure and joy. As Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, these are the days, when the rope has escaped. Turkey, where the founders of our republic come day and night to build this country, stitching this country up, for the development of the poor people, today, let's see how it is. On behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is on behalf of us, which is on behalf of the nation today, there is a court tasked with keeping account of those 40 coins, keeping account of those 40 coins, and overseeing them. Have you ever read the Court's 2007 reports, dear lawmakers? Maybe you didn't read it. Now, I'd like to give you some examples of corruption and that thala. The Court says: A vehicle of Istanbul City has been paid for 63 litres of diesel for a vehicle that should burn 4-5 litres of fuel in a 60-mile radius. Capitals have been paid at least 3-4 times the price of tenders. It's still wanted, but it's been paid for by corporate contractors who've taken the price, the tender, the two bridges, which are still wanted, but never found. It's like 500 people were put on a 127-man boat. Although there were thousands of non-assigned teachers, extra fees were paid for days, years, even though he had no additional classes. Five floors, 474 lira paid for a water heater with a market value of $65. $900 a toy house paid $4,000, paid six times more. Yes, dear lawmakers, what have you done in the Court's reports for these irregularities that have arisen in the 2017 report? Have you filed an investigation? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, I'll tell you what you're doing. Instead of asking the account of these corruptiones, the labor of the people, and the sweat of the people, you went away, and you removed the authorities of the Court, who brought forth these corruptions, and these frauds. You avoid accountability, you avoid audit, you avoid answering. You're avoiding the law, the law, the justice. Dear MPs, political relatives with dollars in shoe boxes, money safes in their bedrooms, citizens who commit suicide for their debts; children who on the one hand say, Daddy? On the other hand, children who have lost their father's life because they couldn't buy their school pants; on the other hand, Genghis Holdings who have taken the tax debt off and cursed the citizens. I'm asking: where is your justice? What ivory towers? On the back of which poor, unfinished orphan or at the price of which tender? Dear lawmakers, in this budget, young people's student loans have been increased by 4 per cent, the court's salary is 26 per cent, does your conscience ache? When we have more than 20 million citizens living below the age of hunger, this budget, which is reserved for allies, comrades, the palace's pomp, makes us feel guilty. You've handed over all your authority to the palace, but I say don't pawn your consciences to the palace. [[Applause from CHP rows]] No one can speak out of fear, and those who speak are in immediate trouble. Seven out of 100 kids who have finished college are in the grip of unemployment. Instead of a budget that eliminates inequality, you're dealing with a budget that deepens inequality. Retirement, unemployment, women, children, nature, the budget isn't too hard, believe me, we can do it together if we want to. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's kill what's not in this budget. Let's share the resources transferred to Faize, side, palace, with pensioners, workers, farmers, pensioners who have been fighting for years. When you put your head on the pillow today, think about it, for once listen to the voice of your conscience. If you can't sleep, if you owe your conscience to our nation, raise your hands for our nation and raise them for the peace and welfare of this nation who voted for you. Yes, you are candidates for the House's MP until you're elected, but I'd like to remind you that after you've been elected, you're the MP of 81 million. You're not lead soldiers, you're congressmen. If you dare, come and vote for this budget for the nation. If you will not use it, if you do not dare to use it, remove the title of the member of your business cards, and print your business cards as deputy. In every decision taken, every penny spent, every investment, because it's part of the nature you're living in, we call it a fair budget for all of us; not for the runt, but for the public. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear MPs, don't object, I'm not saying this, the palace is saying this.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0158par0115	We're not taking you to the fort.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0157par0116	That's not what I'm saying, it's the Court. Please, read it. You know those mayors you took out of that mission, you had them resign crying, and what did you do for them? Can you explain why they were resigned? Explain, people are waiting for you to explain. I want to end it with a word from Hugo Chavez, because it is so familiar with my words today: If you want justice, you will not look at the words of the rich, but at the eyes of the poor. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0159par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0160par0122	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0159par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I'm afraid there's no way to agree with any of the words of the clerk who just spoke on the stand. I wish he'd come up with a guiding, tensive, realistic approach, give us some clean advice, we can all benefit from it, but on the contrary, it's unacceptable. First of all, I would like to point out that if the Court had any identification of those allegations, it would have already sent it to the relevant administration and started the legal process of dealing with them. Everyone needs to know that for sure. Besides, I'd like to repeat that everyone should respect their will. Everyone here is here by the will of the nation. It is not possible and possible for anyone to be named in another capacity. To respect the will of the people - please - all our orators must learn.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0161par0130	Let's open it up, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0159par0131	Democracy requires respect for the will of the nation. In that sense, please consecrate your thoughts and do not engage in any countermeasures of the House of Assembly, in any way against its own. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0161par0134	Mr. Altay, do you have a request?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0162par0135	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0161par0136	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0162par0137	For what reason did Mr. Akbasoglu take his word, according to 60, or did I miss it?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0163par0138	I made a statement.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0162par0139	I'd like to make a statement, then.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0164par0140	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0162par0142	Now, let me tell you a very well-known joke: Dursun and Dursun were sentenced to death. They asked him, "What's your last wish?" He said, "I want to see my mother." They said, "All right." They asked Dursun what was your last wish, and he said, "Don't let him see your mother." They say that about Kurd-Turkish. Now, Mr. President, in the AK PARTY group, there's been a recent lividity in their language.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0165par0144	Under the Law of the Law, according to the Law of the Interior, according to 67.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0162par0145	I've been here 17 years, and the opposition is not expected to applaud power in this Parliament. We call the right thing the right thing, we call the curve the wrong thing. Criticism is our natural right. Mr. Akbasoglu said that if he makes an assessment of a matter, he will do so. Look, I'm gonna tell you something real quick.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0166par0148	Let's open it up, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0162par0149	The prime minister's service building has been given to the company by TOKI, which is, I don't know, what kind of construction work, whatever, at this time. I don't give out company names. Then a draft TOKI report was filed by the court's supervisors. You know what this job is, Mr. President? This is the Ashliy, where Mr. President currently resides, governs the state, which we call the fugitive palace. That's what I'm going to mention at the last day's budget talk. And there are allegations here that can be defeated, not swallowed. I made this a question motion in 2014, based on the court report, why was it done this way? I said, "What is the reason for this?" I said 2014, 2018 years. Mr. Akbasoglu, there's no word from the relevant agency from here or here, click. There's a court in this situation, there's reports in the middle... and the court in the middle can't write any more reports from your pressure... so we swore there we'd keep the government's blind penny, we promised the nation. I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0166par0152	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0162par0153	Whatever you do, we'll take care of the government's blind penny, and we'll take care of democracy. And you will agree that democracy is a regime of reaction and protest. At your party, I... my MP said: "Be the MP of the people, do not be the deputy of the court. " Are you refusing the palace? Do you reject Erdoğan's leadership? What a shame.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0167par0155	No, not at all.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0168par0156	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0169par0157	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0168par0159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we've listened to my colleague's speeches. I've just made an assessment of the court's claims against the prosecutor who spoke on the stand. Now, Mr. Altay has made a different claim and stated that there is an illegal palace. The place where our President, the head of the Republic of Turkey, served the state and the nation, received a residence certificate in 2014, and was legally registered in accordance with all legal, legal, regular, zoning laws, and zoning plans. However, why was another CHP Group Deputy Chairman, Free Special Bey, who recently said, "If this place was not a fugitive, why was it applied again to take advantage of the zoning peace?"
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0170par0163	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0168par0164	So we made a promise to him, and we spoke the truth here from the stand. We've established that it's unreal and that it's slander. Ankara 5. The Supreme Court's decision 2015/232 is based on 2015/1066, and as a result, you will be charged with 13. The decision of his apartment, 2015/4531, along with the additions of this structure, has been declared that any tender and structure is in accordance with the law. Now, on the one hand, there's the decision of law, independent and impartial judgment, and on the other hand, despite these facts, there's some unfortunate explanations. Now, what a diet, what a sauerkraut! As a result, friends, independent judgment binds us all. The law is here.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0171par0168	Mr. Akbasoglu, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0168par0169	I'm telling you to abandon this conceptualization, get back to the truth, get back to the truth, get back to the right one, and conceptualize a right one. And by clear language in our talks, I mean we're open to any criticism, friends, but what's unrealistic is that we don't get dirty with the wrong conceptualizations, the talks, and the accusations. I'm inviting everyone to speak in that sense in a clean language. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0171par0172	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0172par0173	Mr. President, let's get him on the record, so he's got a polemic...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0171par0174	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0172par0175	I now understand that you are not the deputy of the people, but the deputy of the court. Mr. Akbasoglu is offended by this. I leave it to the court and the people. But this illegal palace started off as a real fugitive, it was a site, and then the decisions were made, it was removed from the site. There is no court in this day and age that will not give the clean paper for Erdogan's construction or make the decision Erdogan has asked for, Mr. President, I'm afraid so.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0173par0176	Let's trust the courts, sir. Let's trust the Turkish judiciary.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0172par0177	The credibility of the courts has dropped to 30 per cent. Let it be noted that 70 percent of the state's data does not trust the courts. That's what the government says, and I'm not saying it. We didn't make the courts this way, you did, so the government did.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0174par0179	It was 20 per cent on the European Union's resolution in 1994, Mr. Engin. 20%, 1994. Who's in power?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0172par0180	Brother, he doesn't trust you people, whatever you say...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0175par0181	Mr. Beştaş, why do you demand your word? This was a discussion on behalf of two parties, CHP group spokesman. Without you picking on me?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0176par0182	No, no, I want to tell you about my position according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0175par0183	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0176par0185	Mr. President, I'm going to make a statement on two matters on behalf of our group. Just now, Istanbul 37. Turkey's Human Rights Foundation President Şebnem Korr Fincancı was sentenced to two and a half years in prison by the High Criminal Court. Two weeks ago, he was sentenced to two years and three months in the same court. Neither sentence was suspended, not converted to optional sanctions. Just now, Mr. AKP Group Deputy President said, "Let's trust the courts." We don't trust the courts. Because the courts are now completely dependent, they've been transformed into institutions that put the instructions in front of us as a decision. What was the claim against Shebnem Korır Fincancı? Don't want peace. The trials of the Peace Academy continue continuously, and it is necessary for them to seek peace with the entire community, to seek equality...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0175par0187	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0176par0188	They're trying to dictate that he's guilty. We read this, certainly, as the government's policy of war reflects on the judiciary. If we go back a little bit, Mr. Sırrıyya Jefe is in prison now, and he's being punished for wanting peace and for being a mediator in the process of resolving it. Two days ago, Ertuğrul Kürkcu -- our former MP -- was sentenced to two years in prison for speaking in peace again in Iğdır Nevruz. In total, all of this shows us that the ruling party is increasing both the policy of war and the demand for peace by running it inside and out this semester. I'd like to note that the population's rate of 70 per cent in the process of resolving supports peace. It is not a crime to ask for peace anywhere in the world, nor is it in Turkey, and I would like to note that if there is a confrontation, these court decisions will be recorded as a figure of shame.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0175par0190	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0176par0191	Besides, even during the most primitive tribal period, negotiators are not punished. In fact, the government has noted in history how unreliable it was to send Sırrı Süzeyya Bashal. Finally, I would like to convey the words of my beloved Shebnem Kordar Fincancı, who spoke in court. He says: "The images that disturb you are my work, but must be part of your work. When you face it, these trials will be a form of shame. I reject your accusations, I accuse you. Yes, I say we blame you, and I thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0175par0193	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0177par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0175par0195	Just a minute, Mr. Special. Friends, you know, our group's deputy presidents were promised 2+1 before the talks started, after the non-responsibility of the agenda -- a general matter spoken on the Council of Ministers, which is accepted in the Presidential Court. But now -- I'm just looking at the context of this debate -- after the speaker's speech, he's been involved in a lot of different subjects for about a decade or so, except for the speaker's speech. You know, we're either committed to 69, according to 60. One minute from your place according to 60, and two minutes from the bench, according to 69. I'm going to do that for our group presidents, but now Mr. Special is going to say that this is what happened after I arrived. I actually warned our friends before the break, but let's finish this, because I'm going to do this because we're going to have to finish the talk, the debate, the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0178par0199	Mr. President, thank you. Of course, the reason I'm here is actually about to use a personal response. This is the day when Mr. Engin Altay was assigned to our group. Mr. Group Vice President Akbasoglu Ankara 5. He was forced to come when he mentioned his ruling, which was the main number of the Supreme Court, 2011/879. I have the decision, I have the motive. The summation of the verdict is: ▪ 1. Since there is no explanation in the plan notes for the use of bilateral functions, there is uncertainty about the plan notes, there is no preliminary examination and assessment of the transport schematics, there is no scientific infrastructure in the preparation of the transport schematics, the principles of landscape ecology are ignored, therefore there is no harmonisation in the process, as well as zoning legislation, urbanism principles, planning and public benefit.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0179par0203	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0178par0204	Says who? President Zülal Ozturk, Member Fikri Badir, Member Sea Mountain Gold Army. The expense of the trial has been left to you. That's the decision he's making. Look, he's saying that we said there's no truth. We'll find the decision. We said, "I'll speak on my watch," and he chose to say it in a place where I'm not. That's the decision, that's the reason. What's wrong? The question is: I do not abide by this decision, nor do I abide by the decision of this court to stop its execution. He said, "I do not know it. And then he went to the Supreme Court, where the Supreme Court still hasn't been addressed, where he's being dragged. He then applied to the European Court of Human Rights in Ankara; the Ankara Chamber of Architects; the application of the Ankara Chamber of Architects has been accepted; it will be discussed mainly. The grounds are not to be obeyed, otherwise it is not to be covered by the ECHR, but it has been dealt with in a way that the decision to judge is not to be obeyed, and that is the issue of the bet. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me wrap this up.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0179par0207	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0178par0208	Secondly, in our conversation that day, I also said that we would bring this court order. And at the time, I said, "If the law was in order, why did you seek zoning peace?" And that's why I said this, and I'll tell you this as a new piece of information. They started a process to build a July 15 museum on the site. Why would the museum of July 15th be built into the site of the Ataturk Forest Farm, 61,000 square meters? It is also said that there is also an application for zoning peace. About this -- I told you then -- those who passed it on to me said that they were applying for zoning peace. It's about this new site, not about 2011, but about this museum. Tomorrow you can print it in the Post of Resurrection, where he opposed the Museum of Free Special July 15th. We object not to the Museum, but to the Ataturk Forest Farm. They say there's an application. Since we don't have all the resources of the state like you, maybe we'll delay a few days, and we'll bring him in front of you, just like this decision. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0180par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0181par0212	We'll continue, friends. We've only got company. I thought it was going to end right away, but it doesn't seem to. They're bored.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0182par0213	Why would they be bored?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0181par0217	With members of the Portuguese Parliament's Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Community Commission abroad, Mr. Sergio Sousa Pinto is visiting our General Assembly, along with the members of the Commission. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Applause]] Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0183par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Free Special has just read a different court order, not the court's decision that I said. I'm Ankara 5. 2015/232 is the main issue of the trial filed by the Executive Court's Chamber of Architects. Lu and 2015/1066. I've referred to the verdict of Lu and this court is Court 13th. 2015/4531 original by the apartment. I'm referring to the Lu decision, it's in the transcripts. And I'm reading the verdict briefly:... in the case in which all of these information and documents are being evaluated, the area of the facility intended for the dispute is not historical status, natural status is determined as a sustainable protection and controlled use area, the Council of Ministers has declared an urban transformation and development area, and has demanded that this process be annulled. It has been concluded that the decision to stop the execution has been denied by its agency, that the new development plan, which includes the area which is being called after the construction plan is being called by our court, has been approved, so there is no legal situation that can prevent the construction of the tender-related facilities.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0181par0225	Mr. Akbasoglu, let's finish, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0183par0227	In this case, there is no violation of the procedure regarding the embezzlement of the application to the defendant's administration in order to cancel the construction of the prime minister's service building and the construction of infrastructure and environmental regulation. For the reasons that have been declared, the motion to dismiss the case has been unanimous and approved by this court.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0184par0229	Can you tell me the decision number again?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0183par0230	I'll tell you again.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0185par0231	My friends, let me ask you to compare these decisions with each other.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0184par0232	Tell me the decision number, and I'll ask you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0183par0233	5. The Supreme Court...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0185par0234	Here you go, for the last time.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0186par0235	Mr. President, this is how it goes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0185par0236	You're right, but what should we do?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0187par0237	Ankara 5. Management Court 2015 is based on 232.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0188par0238	2015 to 1198...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0187par0239	232 is fundamental... yes, it's different, it's irrelevant, and I'll tell you this: in the case of the same claims last Friday, Mr. Free Special (involuntary Building Law), if there is no construction in violation of the zoning Act, why was it used for that building? It says, "For Behtepe." I asked you from the stand to prove it. Prove that the peace of zoning is being used. I'm still saying prove it. You can't prove it because there's no such application. From the beginning, this Fivetepe has been in accordance with the Law and Development Law.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0188par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0189par0242	Dear Private...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0188par0244	Mr. President, it's very simple and very clear. 2015/1198 no. The ruling is still in the Supreme Court, not on purpose.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0190par0245	It's not the Supreme Court, it's the Court.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0188par0246	In court, I'm sorry, it has nothing to do with the Supreme Court. The tax administration court... the court, the district attorney... The second is that the European Court of Human Rights is essentially discussing this case without complying with the decisions it has made. In order to eliminate what he said, there's an infraction of a court order. With that zoning arrangement, the court's decision was nullified at the speed of light... look, 2011/879. His Majesty's judgment at the speed of light, as he waits for the original number before the verdict is reached, he reads it to me. The European Court of Human Rights says that you built this illegal palace without a verdict. And you say, "He was a fugitive when we did it, and we made up his handle." That's a confession.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0190par0249	Yeah, not at all.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0191par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0192par0251	Guys, I promise for a minute, and I'm done with this. Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0191par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I've just read the verdict, the law is here, the decision of the impartial judgment is here.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0193par0256	I read it, too.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0191par0257	I, Mr. Free has made a special claim, opened this upon him. Because it is called the palace of the fugitive again, because it is called the palace of the fugitive by the CHP.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0193par0258	He's a fugitive.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0191par0259	He's not a fugitive. If he was not a fugitive, why did you apply for the zoning peace? Prove it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0193par0260	That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0191par0261	If you don't prove it, you're a mufter, that's it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0194par0263	Just a minute, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0193par0264	It won't take a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0194par0265	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0193par0267	On purpose, willingly, from the very first moment, he twisted it, sir, to the zoning peace of the first building. What I'm saying is, I'm telling you again, as a new piece of information, you're opening up 61,000 square feet to build a July 15th museum, and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism approves and suspends it. There will be a retrial process on this, but they're dropping the court by resorting to zoning peace for that place -- historically as well." Some information has come in. I've said that, and you've got a state-of-the-art zoning peace application on the subject, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, So we say, there's a study like this, and we don't want the museum to be built, we don't want it to be built there. And when we find the zoning peace application for that, we'll bring it in just like this, and we'll stick it right in your forehead, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0195par0269	So nothing yet. The evidence is one thing, the argument is another.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0194par0270	Friends, I say again: From now on, I'll consider the demands of our group presidents as one minute, two minutes from the stand, and then we won't disagree. Now, Adıyaman MP İbrahim Halil Fırat will speak on behalf of him. Here you are, Mr. Firat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0196par0279	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 8 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute your grand delegation and the General Assembly. Congressmans, our budget for 2019 is important because it is the first budget of the presidential government system. Like all of our budgets, we're doing our service-oriented, human-focused budget in this budget. The central management budget of 2019 aims to ensure balance in the economy and discipline in the budget, to achieve sustainable economic change in the medium-term growth and fair sharing, to maintain financial discipline, to maintain public balance, to maintain the sustainability of finance policy, and to ensure the implementation of many goals in the future, especially in the field of public finance. Our budget is fair and conscientious; for the laborer, for the poor, for the farmer, for the teacher, for the doctor, for the civil servant, for production. With this budget we promise peace, we promise brotherhood, we promise prosperity, we promise unity and unity. Congressmans, the greatest feature of our nation is that you and I don't exist; we do. As long as we maintain unity and unity, our developing state and country will become more prosperous day by day, the continuation of peace and trust will bring better opportunities and happiness to all of us. We are all concerned with issues such as global terrorism, extremism, racism, alien hostility and illegal immigration, economic crisis, human tragedies, environmental problems. Our region, even the whole world, is going through a difficult time today, and we need peace, tolerance, stability and security, economic and humanitarian development more than ever. One by one, we have faced every threat to national will and sovereignty without blinking a wink, without worrying. At this point, alhamdulillah, our country has achieved significant success in its democracy, its legal state, its fight against terrorism. I wish we had better days for the future of our country. As it has been for 16 years, we have been able to reach our budgets to the furthest corners of our country and reach out to all our citizens from seven to seventy, and do services and investments in many areas from education to health, transportation to energy, security to the courthouse, in the best possible capacity of our budget. We experience the joy of feeling the power and compassion of our government. Dear friends, valued lawmakers, with the AK PARTI governments in health, with many examples of Adıyaman, especially my own district, look, we had two ambulances before Adıyaman -- in health -- came to power. In these ambulances, when he was sick and needed to be transferred, they said: "The ambulance is there, but we will not take your patient until we deposit the gas money. " But today, Alhamdulillah, Adıyaman, we have more than 60 ambulances in Adıyaman, and our palette ambulances in Gerger, Sincik, and Çelikhan districts, which are barely winter conditions, and that's how we now have hospitals in all our districts. We performed 400 beds of Education and Research Hospital in Adıyaman. It's possible to say that for all of Turkey. The same with energy. WHEN the EC PARTI comes to power, we use 7 provinces of natural gas throughout Turkey, Hamdolsun, today, with all our provinces and counties in Turkey, using natural gas. Our courthouse buildings are the same. In transportation, we made the double routes of Adıyaman (Adıyaman) connected with all the surrounding provinces. When the EC PARTY came to power, there were 6,100km double roads in Turkey, and today, during the EC PARTY, we made a double route of over 20,000km. We built bridges, we built airports. There were 25 airports before the AK PARTY came to power. 56 today.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0197par0287	You canceled the adıyaman tobacco.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0196par0288	We built airports in Adıyaman, we connected double roads in Adıyaman, we made hospitals, we did many things in Adıyaman.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0197par0289	There's a 20% unemployment rate in Adıyaman, 20 percent, tell me about it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0196par0290	That's what we did in Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0198par0293	Let's finish, please, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0196par0294	Here we are, as the AK PARTY, continuing our course in service and in human index, continuing to serve for the welfare and happiness of our nation. Hopefully, that's how we'll get on with our 2019 budget. Our party, founded with the dream of Turkey, free, democratic, free of its shackles, free of any thought, and free of any faith, has been on its way, centralizing the human for 16 years, focused on service. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the budget to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, to all who have done it, to all who have done it, with respect and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0198par0297	Now, on behalf of Hatay MP Barış Atay Mengülluoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Mengülluoğlu.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0199par0300	I salute the General Assembly and our people. I admit it, guys, we couldn't stop it. We've done this in budget talks for days, and we've done this. We couldn't stop you from attacking the opposition at every turn and bringing the budget to the General Assembly without changing even a comma, despite all the objections we've raised to protect the interests of the people. We knew the elections were manipulated at every turn, but we couldn't stop you from staying in power for 16 years. We couldn't stop the killing of 21,000 workers in Soma, in Soma, in Toruns, in the third airport, in Ermenek, and in many places we can't count, and the beating of the worker who fell on the ground in Soma, and the three-day shirt that Taner Star wore three days in a row, from being worth more than 301 miners in the ground. On October 10th, we could not prevent the killing of those who had to cross the border to live in Roboski. And we couldn't stop Mama Taybet's funeral from being shot in front of her house for a week. On the trip, we could not stop young people being shot in the streets, beaten to death, their efforts to justify their killers, their irrational lies lying in sheets.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0200par0307	Tell us about our martyrs, Mr. Barýþ.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0199par0308	We will. We couldn't stop Labour Cinema, the destruction of the ECM, the killing of our forests, the attracting of the country's public enterprises and factories under the name of specialization, and we couldn't stop your two soldiers from freezing to death.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0200par0311	Is he your soldier, or is he our soldier?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0201par0312	Mr. Cora, please, don't interfere from where you're sitting. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0200par0313	Your soldier says, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0314	We couldn't stop you from holding one senior official responsible for the 10 train accidents in 16 years, and we couldn't stop you from looking into our eyes and explaining to the mothers why your child was killed in accidents. We couldn't stop you from resetting the money, putting the ministers in front of someone, buying gift watches, and we couldn't stop you from accusing everyone who was left outside of you when you gave them everything they wanted for 11 years and had a conflict with the people you'd partnered with. We have not been able to prevent you from employing people with KHKs; to capture academics, journalists, lawyers, students, opponents; to kill Hrant Dink, Tahir Elçi, and to be targeted and targeted by artists, journalists, news anchors, anyone who stands in your way, to still be targeted from the squares. We couldn't stop you from insulting your children because they couldn't buy school clothes, and we couldn't stop you from using the State of Emergency into the bosses' account, and unfortunately we can't stop you from still sitting in front of us with a lot of arrogance.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0203par0318	And you can't stop us from coming here. That's how much you brag about it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0319	And the German people said that Brecht would be banished, and that the hands of the people of Chile would be cut off from the hands of Victor Jara.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0204par0320	What's with the public? Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0321	...the Spanish people could not prevent Lorca from being shot, just as our people couldn't stop Nazim, Yilmaz South, Ahmet Kaya, from being exiled, and the spiritual water from disappearing in front of our eyes. But today, their songs, their plays, their films, their poems are inherited by the people, our peoples. You don't know that no dictator can be read. I know one reason for arrogance is to think that you have absolute power. I'm interested in understanding the people you're fighting. So I did some research to really understand you and your behavior. I came across a disease called hubris syndrome.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0204par0323	Get out of here! Behave yourself!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0324	In short, it's a form of arrogance syndrome from having power in your hands for a very long time.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0204par0325	Speak up!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0326	I think it makes sense that Recep Tayyip Erdogan was the first example to appear on a platform when he wrote it online. Must be a thought for you guys.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0204par0327	Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0205par0328	You're the patient, the patient.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0329	This arrogance comes from thinking you'll never lose it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0206par0330	Are you with the PKK or what?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0331	On the other hand, I know you're afraid to live in this delusion of arrogance and invincibility.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0207par0332	Don't talk with your mouth!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0333	For example, for weeks, the movement of yellow vests in France has been on the agenda of power. Power markers say the ones who buy yellow vests are terrorists.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0208par0334	The people are watching you, people.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0209par0335	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0336	In fact, a group of your vice presidents, don't try, the government will give you your answer.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0210par0337	Macron, Macron.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0338	From here on out, your endless trip trauma has returned, connecting every claim demand, every little action with the Gezi. A charlatan must beheaded. He says, "You don't make a sound." I'll tell you what, whatever you say, the trip is an honor. I'm proud of every minute I've spent there. And I'll be proud to be in it. Look, we don't cut heads, but you can be sure that we'll stand up to those who intend to, and we won't take a step back. Tolstoy has a saying: "A person who is arrogant and stubborn will see himself as perfect, and then he will come to an end. "
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0211par0341	You've described yourself, bravo!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0342	I assure you, we don't need a yellow vest to fight against you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0212par0344	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0345	We don't need yellow vests.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0213par0346	You see the aims of imperialism as an honor.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0212par0347	Guys, let's not talk.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0348	We don't need you to see what we're wearing.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0214par0349	You sound just like you, yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0350	An organized people who know they're right, who are fighting for their rights, who stand side by side against fascism, will give you their answer, and make sure you have enough. It doesn't matter what we're wearing. You'll see when we get there, you'll know that.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0214par0352	We'll see!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0202par0353	Come on, we'll see!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0215par0354	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0216par0355	Mr. Akbasoglu, teasing or 60?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0215par0356	There's a tease, yes. So I'd like to take the liberty of picking on you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0217par0357	What did he say?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0215par0358	As a result, he talked about arrogance, about the disease, about our group. So...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0217par0359	He told the president.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0218par0360	Not to your group, but to Recep Erdogan.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0219par0361	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0365	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and conversation. Yeah, well, I usually explain when he needs to explain my position, and we even quietly listen to the reviews, but when he's sick, and he's sick, and he's sick, and he's here, I return his promises to others psychologically, as well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Guys, this trip could be an honor for someone. In a democratic Turkey, it is the EC PARTY that paves the way for freedom. The AK PARTY is really the one that spreads the welfare to the community base.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0221par0369	You can't lie that much. You can't lie that much.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0370	Ma'am, the public will prove it! For 16 years, has this people been ruling the AK PARTY for nothing? (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Respect the public. Respect the right.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0221par0371	The public can't get information! The public can't get information! You're the only ones with channels.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0222par0372	Mr. Kaya, I don't know what you want to do.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0373	Yes, July 15th, friends, was an international operation to prevent 6 of the world's top 10 projects from happening in Turkey. By putting oil in the hands of the imperialists...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0221par0374	Pool, pool...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0375	To slap the imperialists with these big mega projects, that's what we call it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0223par0377	Mega robbery!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0378	Dear friends, look, it's real, it's real.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0223par0379	Mega robbery!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0380	Those who say they shouldn't do this in 2015...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0224par0381	Tell me about the dead workers, the workers.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0382	...they were captured by Vandalism on the planet.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0225par0384	Your grandchildren will pay for it, your grandchildren!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0385	We're not slaves to vandalism, we're servants to our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0225par0388	You serve Genghis Construction.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0226par0389	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0390	I'll clean it up.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0226par0391	We're not prolonging the bullying, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0227par0392	You're serving Genghis Construction!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0393	All right, then let's put it on the record.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0228par0394	You fill the pool with these.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0229par0395	You've sucked the blood out of them!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0396	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0230par0397	You're showing off your robberies without shame.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0398	Dear friends, all together...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0231par0399	You've drained people's blood!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0232par0400	Friends... Mr. Akar, what's going on! Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0220par0401	...these works will continue to serve our entire nation. And you will continue to travel through it, from that airport. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0233par0404	You're talking for free!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0234par0405	More than a plane, more than an airplane!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0235par0406	Mr. Mengülluoğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0236par0407	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about 69.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0234par0408	It's cheaper to fly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0235par0409	Guys, I want to hear about our friend. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0237par0410	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0238par0411	I want to talk to you about the 69th article, about picking on me.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0237par0412	There's an explanation, no teasing.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0238par0413	When he said that he was sick, he made a claim against me.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0237par0414	No, you told us yourself, we returned it to you, we didn't tell you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0238par0415	You said he was sick and accused us of it. Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0237par0416	You told me.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0239par0417	Mr. Mengülluoğlu, I promise, but you said it, he answered you. You're gonna tell him, he's gonna answer, so he doesn't have a thing.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0240par0418	Mr. President, be objective.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0241par0419	Be neutral, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0239par0420	Let's not get picked on again, please. Let's go to the General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0242par0423	There's a finding here, folks, as a result. For example, you have cancer.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0243par0424	Who's that?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0242par0425	One moment, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0243par0426	But wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0244par0427	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0242par0428	Okay, I'll tell you, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0245par0429	What are you detecting? Are you a doctor?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0244par0430	Guys, I promised one person, I don't know what's going on, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0242par0431	You wouldn't be offended if I said you had cancer. You should all know about Hubris syndrome, which is pretty hard for you. It's okay.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0246par0432	And are you a doctor?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0247par0433	Are you a doctor?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0242par0434	If I were sick like your vice president said...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0247par0435	You know everything.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0248par0436	Are you a doctor?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0249par0437	Mr. Guler...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0250par0438	I'd rather be treated personally.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0248par0439	Have you been examined?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0249par0440	Mr. Guler...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0250par0441	I suggest you consider this my suggestion. And I'll tell you, Mr. Group Vice President, he keeps showing up here...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0251par0443	Have you been examined? Have you been examined?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0252par0444	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0250par0445	Yes, I've been examined.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0253par0446	What's the result?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0254par0447	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0250par0448	Well, I've been examined, you asked. For God's sake!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0253par0449	What'd you get? What'd you get?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0255par0450	What'd you get? Are you sick?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0250par0451	Deputy Director of the Group, you always have to come out here and show me pictures of bridges...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0256par0452	Are you uncomfortable?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0257par0453	We did it, we did the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0250par0454	...that your government didn't do much. It's your duty as a government.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0258par0455	Oh, yeah? Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0250par0456	You don't do us any favors when you're building us a bridge.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0259par0457	Then why do you object? Then why do you object to our mission?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0260par0458	Guys, let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0261par0459	What's your mission? What's your mission?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0262par0460	If you guys want to talk, you can go out and talk. The president will give you his word.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0263par0461	We'll talk.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0261par0462	Isn't it your duty to destroy it?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0262par0463	So I think you should consider our humble suggestion that staying in power for too long can, unfortunately, cause such things.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0264par0464	You can't stay, you can't be in power, you're the servant of the imperialists.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0262par0465	You'd better go and see him.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0265par0467	Guys, we're done here.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0266par0468	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0265par0469	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0266par0470	Just for the record. I repeat: we have never teased anyone, nor have we made any promises. We didn't say much to our group, we added more. I guess he touched it a little bit.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0267par0472	No. No.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0268par0473	He touched you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0266par0474	Yeah, a little bit.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0267par0475	You may have a disease, my friends, it's nothing to be ashamed of, you'll be cured.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0266par0476	So again, I'm going to say, no bullying, we returned exactly what we were told, and we did the statements in front of our entire nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0269par0482	Guys, I'm going to go with the QA. The question-answer process is ten minutes on Article 8; five minutes on questions, five minutes on answer. Mr. Excessive, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0270par0485	Thank you, Mr. President. December 18th, the world was the day of immigrants. Today, Turkey is the world's largest refugee country, but none of the ugliness exhibited elsewhere is happening. We look at it as human before its color, before its culture. When you first see what you see as a human being, it's not like you can treat him like a human being. Some European ministers should pour them all into the sea by referring to asylum seekers, even if they drown, we don't care. If they can say, humanity is dead there. When writers in the Mediterranean have offered to send war helicopters instead of sending ships to save people on broken boats bound for Europe in the Aegean, the situation is grave in Europe. The time has come for Europe to question itself. On this occasion I celebrate the day of the immigrants of the world, and salute the general assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0271par0488	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0272par0489	Thank you, Mr. President. Thousands of pensioners have waited a year for the power to bring it up, but the government ignores the issue with incredible bias and misinformation. Those who live in retirement are the reality of the country, and their rights are condemned by the power. Working people who have completed the prim and day period and have asked for their bonus return are not getting old. The elbow is shown. The age limit has been raised to 65 years old, and retirement in the grave does not apply to social state. If individual pensions are even 58 years old, the government should give the rights to those who deserve retirement; IT (YIT) has produced them. Instead, it should learn what the EYTESTs want and provide them with the necessary support. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0273par0492	Mr. Sertel, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0274par0493	Mr. President, thank you. I have some questions for those who think they run or run this country: Do you know the price of bread; do you know the price of the olives for 1 kilogram; do you know the price of onions, potatoes, dried beans, lentils; do you know what the price of meat is 1 kilogram; do you know the price of cheese is 1 kilogram; do you know the price of electricity, water, gas, gas prices; the price of the bus, subway, and the price of the filling; do you know how much money a person must spend to live by human beings; do you know what the minimum salary is; do you know what the minimum salary is; do you know what the price of the police, the teacher, the financial officer, how much you pay, how much you pay for the money, how much money you give for people? Do you live in this country or do you live in another country? I'm waiting for an answer. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0275par0496	Mr. Önal...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0276par0497	Thank you, Mr. President. As in all Turkey, there are notarisations of workers for six or nine months, through the ISKUR, and through the list method, as in Cırıkkale. Today, you see our citizens waiting for results in the notary raffle in front of the Parks and Gardens Department of Kurskale City. Our citizens are not being taken to the place where the notary is being drawn, and the result is waiting outside. However, however, the lottery or lists made in Kırkkale are often expressed as political pressure to ask if people close to the AKP have been hired by co-friends and relatives, who are in economic distress, who are in need of the AKP. Our citizens of Brokenkali, who are suffering economic distress, who are studying children, who pay rent, who are waiting in the street on winter day, demand that this injustice be ended immediately, and that the purchases made through İSKUR should be more fair and transparent. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0277par0501	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0278par0502	Thank you, Mr. President. The second largest share of our budget is reserved for health, 16.3. So, who's in this budget? We've got 82 million people, we've got officers, we've got workers, we've got merchants, we've got farmers, we've got pensioners, we've got housewives, we've got students. Speaking of our students, for college students until the age of 25, for high school students until the age of 20, until our daughters get married, our graduate students are covered by General Health Insurance from graduation date to two years, so all health care is covered by the state. That's what's in the budget. What else is there? There are babies that haven't been born yet, mothers. So in the past, newborn babies and mothers are held hostage because they can't afford to be in the hospital, and now all expenses are paid by this budget, and mothers are paid by the light of mind. Mr. President, I'm asking you, what percentage of the health-deprived share is the national interest? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0279par0507	Mr. Ünver...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0280par0508	As we say, no workers, no officers, no pensioners, no farmers, the AK PARTY is uncomfortable. Let's give you an example of what we're saying: the minimum wage today when you apply for retirement, $970 per month is tied up. Assuming the minimum wage is retired in 25 years, then his pension will be worth $718 today. This is going to be 621 lira for the pension when the farmer is made for the Bond-Words. If it hadn't been for your so-called social security reform in 2008, the minimum wage pensioner would have received $1,822 today, and the farmer's Bond-Kure pension would have received $1,260. Well, that's just reason enough to say there's no pensioners, workers, civil servants, shopkeepers, farmers in this budget. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0279par0510	Mr. Strawberry...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0281par0511	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a rule that missing information doesn't come out right. When the preachers come out, they can comment and criticize with incomplete information. Our nation can be misled by this criticism. I think it's time for us to exercise extreme caution, effort, as well as self-elected individuals. I would also like to make a contribution today to a review of wheat imports: Mr. Orator said that $5 billion was paid for 52 million tons. In exchange for this product, our government allows us to import wheat. In exchange for 66 million tons of pasta, 26.1 billion dollars exported, a net $11.5 billion foreign trade surplus between 2002 and 18 eighth months. It is presented to the knowledge of our High Council. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0282par0514	Finally, Mr. Çulhaoğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0283par0515	Thank you, Mr. President. On December 19, 1918, the first bullet was fired by Sergeant Black Mehmet in Hatay Fourways Karakese. After four years of fighting, on January 9, 1922, our Fourways district survived an enemy invasion. In memory of December 19, 1918, the First Bullet Cultural Arts and Turunçgil Festival is also important for the historical and cultural wealth of the district, as well as for promoting the production of citrus. And I wish that the citrus and citrus festival, which is held for the 100th year of this glorious day, should be a blessing to all our producers and locals, and that I remember Sergeant Mehmet Mehmet with mercy and gratitude. I pay my respects to my fellow Hatay. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0284par0518	I'll make an addition to the answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0285par0519	No, I'm just saying there's only one question coming up. Health expenditures are covered by 157 billion, 16.3 per cent. If you're going to continue, can I talk to you about the question-answer part?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0286par0522	We'll continue until we complete this ten minutes, of course.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0285par0523	Well, since it's out of health, let me give you some information. In 2002, the health ministry hospitals had a total capacity of 107,394 beds, and only 6 percent of that was a qualified bed. Today we have 145,450 bed capacity, about 38,000 new beds added, and the bed capacity of 6,839 has been moved to 102. 70 per cent of the current bed capacity consists of qualified bed capacity. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0287par0526	Let's keep it casual. Mr. Ayvazoglu? No. Mr. Aydın? No. Mr. Gunpowder, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0288par0530	Mr. President, our country is facing a deep crisis, despite what the government says. Today we're going from recession to economic reduction. This crisis is the crisis of the order of power on purpose and purpose. This crisis, not for production, favours the runt, not for law, but for pleasure, not for democracy, but for one man, is the crisis of the order of power. If you say there is no crisis, why did 330,000 more people lose their jobs in one year? Why is unemployment at the top of the last year and a half and 11.4 percent? Why are people so desperate that they can't look for work, they're even willing to work short? Why are women and young people unemployed? If there's no crisis, why did industrial production get 6 percent smaller in a year? Why is it a national income per person from 2013...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0287par0532	Yes, dear friends, the talks on Article 8 have been completed. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. I'm going to read the 9th article. Here you go. Investment Expenses, Mahalistic Administrations and Fund-related Sentences No project can be spent on except projects on additional investment tables for the MADDE 9- (1) 2019 Investment Programme. The project or investment allowance of 2019 could not have been less than 10 per cent of the project's cost in 2019 to start in 2019, except for years of projects which have been collectively funded by projects (except for urban rail transport systems and subway construction projects, which will be carried out by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and other railway construction projects). Projects for the underlying projects and jobs can be revised by implementing the 2019 Year Programme, Co-ordination and Tracking Decisions, and primarily by staying within the investment funds of institutions. (2) The implementation of the 2019 Year Programme on the implementation of public administration's annual projects in the central administration's investment programme, the implementation of the Coordination and Followed Decisions on the implementation of the 2019 Year Program, the co-ordination, and the implementation of computer software and hardware projects as well as detail programmes as sub-project projects. (3) Adding funds to the budgets of the central administration's public administration for investment projects, and transfers are linked to the investment programme according to procedure and basis of the 2019 Year Programme, Co-ordination and Tracking Decision. (4) Applying, Co-ordinating and Following the 2019 Investment Programme for mandatory changes to the additional investment table over the year is followed by procedures in the Law of the Year 2019. It is associated with projects on the investment programme by the project owner of the project, provided it is registered to the budget of 2019 on the basis of Article 28/A and the interim Article 10 of the Law concerning the High Discipline Board of Interior, dated 14/2/1985, and to provide information to the head of the Strategy and Budget, according to Article 3152. On behalf of the 9th article, Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin... Here you go, Mr. Sezgin. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0289par0547	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on Article 9 of the budget law. Last week, there was an unfortunate train crash that revealed the understanding of the investment of the EC PARTY. In addition to recklessness and neglect, I wish God's mercy to those who lost their lives in the accident, and to those who died in an irresponsible manner, and to those who were injured, and to those who were injured, an urgent cure. One of the most important reasons for this accident is that although the signalization infrastructure is incomplete, the line is open to transport. If the control mechanism of our Parliament had been properly operated in the train accidents in Pamukova, and in Chorus, the sad event we experienced last week probably wouldn't have happened. GOOD PARTY made motions about it, denied, unresponsived. The recent accident also reflects the understanding of investment in the AK PARTY's power. Unfortunately, either during election times, the government has made a habit of deceiving the citizens with investment commitments or making it seem that the investments that have not been fully completed have been completed. Istanbul's third airport will be more controversial. It's probably going to go down in history as a crippled project with the wrong mentality. In 2007, our native plane was put up in the sky. While we were waiting to see our native plane in the sky, we found that flying palaces, which were supposedly a gift from Qatar, began to fly in our heavens. It's been over three months since the motion I asked about this plane, and I still haven't gotten an answer. There are no such issues in democratic and accountable governments. My constituency suffers from promises and incomplete investments in Aydın. For many years there has been a space available for the airport. The EC PARTY has pledged airports for passenger transport in each election for 16 years, but the project has not been carried out. According to reports by various institutions and organisations, particularly the Aydın Chamber of Commerce, Aydın Madrain Airport appears to be very random and physical. Another investment in infrastructure that my enlightened citizens have been waiting for is the fast train project. The oldest railway route in our country, the Izmir-Aydun railway road, has been too old for history and the future. It has been promised to be completed by 2023, but there is no progress yet. The province of Aydın was not included in public investments for 2018 and entered the catalog of empty promises. There is also a request for light rail transportation on the coast of the people of Aydın, starting from the Kusadas-Selmuk border to the beauty patch. This system will create a unique line of attraction in both the concentrated traffic and the tourism region. It is also a serious project that needs to expand and deepen the port under environmental conditions. Aydın is one of the regions considered identical to Turkey's tourism, but especially the centre is being wronged because of infrastructure issues stemming from the failure of power. In Nazilli, the construction of university and agricultural organised industrial infrastructure is unfortunately among the underlying projects. Basically, my people of Light have the power to determine their economic destiny, energy, vision, and entrepreneurial spirit. But this time they're facing a dozen bureaucratic obstacles. On the other hand, the fact that Aydın is in the second zone of investment incentives, given the economic data, is not acceptable to reason and economic rationality. According to the understanding of the good PARTY, the incentive zones must be rearranged according to reasonable criteria, and all obstacles in private investments must be removed. The most important condition for investments is to obtain the consent of the region's citizens. However, unsupervised JES projects, which have caused severe damage to human life, environment, agriculture and livestock in the region, are being run, and new ones are being made, despite the lack of the will of the Enlightenment. In this regard, the relevant institutions must take the necessary measures, increase the controls, prevent the destruction of Aydın's history, present and future. The project of the 140km Light-Sea Highway Project, which has been expected for years and has been canceled three times before, was finally completed several weeks ago. According to the General Directorate of Highways, transit fees will be paid as 5 euro/cent on the basis of cars and kilometers. The government, which makes compelling arrangements for the transition to Turkish lira, does these contracts with euros, is a complete tenacity. You also have to question the credibility of this tender. An investment that has been on hold for years has been brought up in an environment where large investments have been halted due to the economic crisis. Let's hope the tender isn't just a local election attempt to stall the Enlightenment. It is also an additional question that the tender for a major issue such as the highway has been given to a consortium, which has so far been said to have no experience of building a highway. Members of parliament, I will not mention Kanal Istanbul, which is called the crazy project. It's a disaster that such a project can only be brought up. Our country no longer has the ability to deal with unfinished investments, non-responsive promises, show bases, crazy and inefficient projects. In his late Menderes, Demirel and Özal, the economy was based on construction, construction, and employment. For AK PARTY, power was built. In the end, construction became power. Construction has become a tool of charity. That sea is gone, and the economy has fallen into today's collapse. On the other hand, some 10 million of our citizens, who are already struggling to find a job with a guarantee of transition and use, or who are already trying to live on a minimum wage of 1,600 lira, even living on a minimum wage, are being burdened with additional burdens. AS A GOOD PARTY, all our motions and proposals to parliament for improving minimum wage, raising pensions are unfortunately rejected by the ruling bloc, the majority of the presidency. It seems that the approach of power is to completely neutralize parliament, which is the main element of democracy. Parliament should not be a scene where, in its essence, 600 people are held by election in Ankara, and the hands are lowered and removed so that the laws of one person can be passed. It results in the president's adoption of Parliament into an organ that will serve him through the majority of presidents in Parliament. An approach, such as destroying Parliament's logic and function, is strongly established, and its mission is seen as a request for a Parliament, which is just a function. However, as democracy and the legal state weaken, the situation in the economy worsens, investors are on the run, local and foreign investors are on the run, trying to get away from their original activity and move their investments abroad. There are only a few countries that are able to grow quickly in the economy with an authoritarian understanding of governance, yes, but Turkey is not China, nor should it be based on a Chinese-like regime. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0290par0562	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0289par0563	Thank you. Turkey is a country with parliamentary democratic traditions dating back to 150 years. The real way for our country's development and prosperity to grow is to restore democracy and the rule of law, to begin the process of structural reforms as soon as possible. Yesterday, we listened to Mr. Treasury and Finance Minister, who was not even credible for a serious, economic student. The hard-to-count allegations are based on palliative and insurmountable measures, arguments. It's not even a trace of the structural reform that's really needed. These allegations will soon come to pass, but either way, after April, they will be subject to the real test and it will collapse. The economic understanding that seeks to provide a source of anger from the book cannot stand. In the book, VAT rose from 8 per cent to 18 per cent today, from 1 per cent to 18 per cent in the magazine. This is incredible. We envy the European Union, we are far from the European Union in this area. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0291par0569	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Army Congressman Cemal Enginyurt. Here you go, Mr. Enginyurt. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0292par0574	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 2019 budget, investment spending, Article 9 of the 9th Amendment, and on behalf of the General Assembly's National Movement Party Group, I salute you. Of course, speaking of the budget for about ten days, I want to clarify one thing in particular: I entered Parliament in 1999, served in the 57th Government. I'm very sorry that I'm trying to explain today's situation by comparing some of your AK PARTI or orator friends -- not as well as some of them 1999-2000 -- to explain their situation here: I think the 57th government, which served between 1999 and 2002, both economic and structural reforms, and in this country, has made a lot of big decisions about a lot of things, even though there are three parties looking at the world from different windows -- let God have mercy -- in the prime office of Mr. Blunt Ecevit. But when speakers were to insist on describing 16 years of AK PARTI power, I thought they had good things to do, they had services to tell, but even those who were 10 years of age that day, even banks were seized in 2002. Parties in the government in 2002 would not have been under the dam if they had actually been supported by the people. On that day, the great Turkish nation made a decision, leaving the entire government of the National Movement Party, Democratic Left Party and Homeland Party out of parliament and ruling you. So I'm asking you, I'm asking you, I've been going back and forth, and we've come here. We've said, "This is where we've come from." We're hoping that my government partner, Mr. Chairman of the National Movement Party, will get a successful result on March 31st, so if he and I are constantly being bullied as members of the 21st term, we're going to have to talk about it this time, and when I talk about it, it's going to be news, because we don't think the Alliance should work, because we think, the Cumhur Alliance should have a successful outcome on March 31st it's important to show a little bit of concern for you, especially for the President of the group.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0293par0576	We need to wrap the alliance in cotton, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0292par0577	I hope so. So, now, as for investment spending, although these 16 years have been in power, I can't help but say that there are too many problems in my own province, the Army. For example, three organised industrial zones have been issued as organised industrial zones in the military province -- three organised industrial zones at the headquarters of Üyya, Fatsa and the Army -- and since the 53 million are still not paid for, it stands before us as an investment of around 118 trillions, which is not being implemented. When I asked Mr. Minister of Industry the other day, he said, "We'll look at the budget at the proper rate." He said, "We'll look at it at least 20 to 25 thousand people from here will eat bread, work, produce, make it worth adding to Turkey and create both exports and jobs." So, this needs to happen immediately, because Fatsa, fame and Army headquarters are like three locomotive zones, and it needs to be taken care of. In 2014, a botanical garden was opened and spent 14 trillion by our President. It was a good service, we appreciated it, we praised it. But during this year, the botanical garden was destroyed, destroyed, and decided to be replaced by a city hospital. We also respected the decision at the city hospital because the Army needs a city hospital, but unfortunately, the land still hasn't even been transferred to the Ministry of Health, so there's over 100 land owners on the land, so I'm sorry -- they're not being paid for, so our city hospital doesn't go into any kind of life, it can't be transferred, it needs to be taken into account. Health care is not sufficient in our provinces, such as Aybastı, Korgan, Kumru, and Mesudiye. Doctors are almost as good as gone. No obstetrics, no pediatricians, so we feel that these hospitals should be brought to a level that is suitable for the 21st century sense of service. Again, there was a cultural center, a tender, a contractor's era, but unfortunately for whatever reason, the contract was stopped, the contractor who got the bid was rebuffed, even though he hit it with a pickaxe. Not the contractor, Al, we're giving him back his collateral or anything. It's not called "steal." It's not an effort to build a cultural center. The celebrity expects this cultural center to come to life as soon as possible. We've got 53 closed-down municipalities, and they're back on the market, and they're expecting investments, and they're expecting investments from power. Because we were a city, we had three ports, handed over to the big city, our ports closed, became useless. These ports, which are connected to the Central Anatolian and the Black Sea, need to be revived, and we say that marine fishing, which is the largest source of livelihood in the Army, should be revived under the investment budget. Again, after the Army became a major city, people got their hopes up, but unfortunately, the road and water problems have gone too far. These need to be resolved as soon as possible. Of course, when we say road and water, it's part of the Army Metropolitan Municipality. Why don't you do it? The waters don't flow in villages, the roads are miserable. When we say the capital city says the budget is not enough. The army has been appointed a new mayor to the Metropolitan Municipality three months ago. The appointed mayor is doing 500,000 liras for the army, so the view will be good, and it will be 500 thousand liras for the army. It's a shame, isn't it? If there's no money, where's this $500,000 from? If there's money, why can't there be water, why can't the roads be built? So people ask us that. We're here as intermediaries for you, Mr. Group Vice Presidents. So we're just saying that we're waiting for them to take notes, and we're hoping that they'll probably take notes from the transcripts, and they'll evaluate them, and they'll report them. After 16 years, the problems are really too much. These problems need to be resolved. Opposition parties are singing, and so are we. An effort must be made to resolve the problems of pensioners. We must at least see fit to give health care to people who have paid 30 years of premiums. The class of auxiliary services requests a removal of staff. In this regard, their rebellion should be considered. We have people waiting for a reduced sentence. In fact, not to call it an economic crisis, but there's a huge amount of stock in the checks and bonds because of the economic tightness -- which can be offensive when you say "crisis" -- there's been a lot of stockpile in the executive files.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0294par0590	Mr. Enginyurt, complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0292par0591	There are at least 300,000 people who have been committed to an execution and have been sentenced to 90 days in prison. He can't benefit from probation in the penalty of this act, he has to serve 90 days in prison. Hundreds of thousands of people whose checks have been written because of this economic stalemate are waiting in line to go to jail. Let's discuss, let's discuss, let's discuss, let's discuss, let's talk, let's talk about, let's talk about, let's get the wrongs, let's get the wrongs out, but we've given people hope, we've given them hope, and let's certainly bring that hope to life. Indeed, there are victims, and indeed there are prisoners of fate. I say we find a solution to these people's problems. I call upon our budget for good, and I give you all my love.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0294par0594	Mr. Akbasoglu, you have a minute's notice in accordance with the Interior Charter 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0295par0598	Thank you very much, my dear President. Of course, I'd like to thank our esteemed congressman, Mr. Enginyurt. The Cumhur Alliance is a very important process that needs maximum care and care. Here's what our lawmakers described as pre-2002 and post-2002. For some parameters, as of the date when they came to power, it's about what has been done from that date to this date. Of course, all our governments have come to work with the will of the nation to serve in the interests of our nation, to find a cure for their troubles. The 2002 comparison here is not particularly about sending it to the MHP, or any of our parties, but, as I said, what was it when we took power, it is described as a parameter to be able to compare it to what it came to today? I felt the need to make that statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0296par0605	Now, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ankara MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0297par0609	Mr. President, valued MPs, every political power has a story. Some write the story of equality and freedom against poverty and injustice. For example, Allende, the famous leader of Chile, came to power with the promise to restore his land to the people who were starving when there was plenty. His story began with the destruction of large mansions, the distribution of the land to poor farmers, the publicisation of mining industries that exploit the country's natural resources and drive all wealth out of the country. But in Latin America, you can imagine the fear that an impressive socialist leader created for the United States during the cold war, Allende was killed by coupters led by dictator Pinochet. It was a true hero story. Some governments don't have stories like that. Therefore, heroic stories are produced from no means at all. Besides, it's not unique to one country. For example, they become Palestinian-friendly heroes, and then they raise the trade of Israel, who constantly pressured, persecuted, and wronged Palestinians, to $5 billion in 2017, with $1.4 billion in 2002. They appear to be heroes with great Turkey and local and national, making the country into screwed potatoes and onions, importing everything abroad. Instead of throwing out all the resources of the country, they start companies and lend citizens money with megaprojects, bridges that kill nature, city hospitals, dollars. They win with dollars, and when the country goes into crisis, they say, "We're in the same boat." They sell public enterprises to foreign companies one by one. Dear lawmakers, TECEL, PETKIM privatisations, sugar factories... do you know how many people work today at KİRH, where 653,000 people worked 25 years ago? It's only 105 grand. That's right, SOCs had a lot to fix. For decades, the right-wing authorities used the OSCEs as a cheap supply for private capital, a qualified employee's warehouse, and a staff at the OSCE. Of course, the OSCE needed change, but this change was not privatisation, liquidation and closure. $70 billion in public institutions sold, friends, $70 billion in public institutions. When you sell something, you buy something -- but really -- I don't know, save it, no, you distribute it to the poor, to the workers or something. What happened is this $70 billion budget, we don't know. Did he go to the bridge, the airport, there's no answer. You're still making people pay for what they owe. Here, friends, if your story starts with a runt like this, with money, you'll do your best to silence those who object. Because when power is polluted by interests and power relationships, the public forgets what lives, and can't see it. You went on as if nothing had happened, as Misra Oz called out to all of us in the pain of his nine - year - old son, Oğuz Arda, who had been lost in a train accident for months. Look at how you've brought an institution of Ottoman origin, such as railroads, with the most experienced staff. Another train crash in order to reach the election. You opened a hotline that had to be signaled before the signaling system was finished, we lost nine lives. In Pamukova, we lost 41 lives just in case the train reached the 2014 elections. Haven't you had enough? Our minds are no longer our hearts. What's with the ambition, fellas? What election victory is worth it? Look, some parts of your fabulous third airport today were flooded, and the workers' friends pulled a rope and rescued them on their way to cars and service vehicles. Unfortunately, the third airport workers, who will always be remembered for the killings of nature and labor, were saying in court, "Look, let me explain why I chanted; my cousin was in a work accident, so he fell off the third floor because there was no dock. So don't shut up, you'll get your turn as soon as you're quiet. We said it would never happen again. (Applause from HDP rows) That was the naive expression of the workers. These workers buried dozens of their friends from building airports and were arrested when they rebelled against terrible conditions, bedbugs, friends. Now tell them, look at their faces and tell them you're dying, we're growing up, but we're in the same boat. Tell them, if you can, go tell them to their faces. I attended the workers' trial, and they were all very young, and some of them were students, and they were studying, except for one, they all came from cities like Istanbul, Van, Siirt, Şırnak. The indictment was an indictment of almost every basic right as a crime. It was also considered a crime for so-called unionists to enter into the workplace and explain their rights to workers and form a WhatsApp group among them. And the union guy was organizing. What else does a union guy do, guys? The union man organizes. Oh, by the way, it was considered a crime for the workers to follow and look at the lawmakers who came to the construction site. A worker said I had slippers on my foot, so who do I fight? And they attacked us, but I've never seen their records. They never wrote our good points. Yes, they were naive, they never wrote our good points. They didn't even know that you could go to jail for just seeking your rights. One of them said, "I got a job three months ago, and I was a shoe painter because I couldn't afford it." The workers are so right, they're so right that one day they're going to win, that's why, in fact, fear. This is the fear that prevents families from losing their children in work killings, working families seeking justice, mothers of Saturdays, women walking against male violence on November 25th. Here's your story, friends, this story of fear and fear. Here's a picture of your story. Yeah, you guys are barrier power. You've built barriers all over Turkey, and you'll go down in history by turning a human rights monument into barriers in the middle of this capital, and that's how you'll be remembered. We have a story, of course. Look, for example, has a storyteller like Sergiyya ever seen a speaker like Idris Bauken? Some of you may bow your heads when you say Idris Baluken, remember your performance here, your speech here. That's why our friends fought to put a brick in the peace of this country, and that was their most important story, and that's why they're in jail. Your story is to really call everything "terror," to create fear, to create security paranoia, and to call divorce a human rights institution that can even call terrorism. And I understand you're asking if there's been an increase in the sale of yellow vests from Cocostone, which is another interesting story. Yes, you have imprisoned one of the most beautiful storytellers in this country, Sırrı Süzeyya, and imprisoned the story of this country, and its freedom. But our story isn't over, our story is that a Saturday night mother who was killed in public school years ago was stubborn every Saturday in the same square; that's our story. The human struggle we've been fighting, arm in arm, without separating any human beings, without leaving them behind. That's our story, guys. This story will be the story of this country, the story of this country will set this country free, and you will have your share of it, and we will all be free together because it is not a story to turn the Memorial of Human Rights into barriers. We invite you to write new stories with more conscience. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0298par0621	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0299par0622	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0298par0623	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0299par0624	Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0298par0625	Sarcasm?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0299par0626	I want to make a statement.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0298par0627	Wait a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0299par0631	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As for Palestine, I would like to remind you that Turkish Flags and the posters of Erdogan are flying in the hands of Palestinian youths and children.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0300par0633	Always advertising, always advertising!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0301par0634	Pity, maybe they don't know.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0299par0635	They know very well because there's a bridge to the heart. The most beautiful, concrete example of this is to announce to the world that Jerusalem is the eternal capital of Palestine by voting in favour of Turkey's decision, against the decision of the United States, under the leadership of Mr Erdogan, with a leadership of Turkey in a universal, global sense. Is there a better, more concrete example? We're not the barriers, we're the power of hearts all over the world, that's how I want it to be known. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0302par0639	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0303par0640	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0302par0641	May I make a brief statement from my position?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0303par0642	Sir?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0302par0643	Can I make a brief statement about Palestine from my place?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0303par0644	No teasing, when you say it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0304par0645	Mr. President, Palestinians come to Turkey on visas, Israelis without visas.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0305par0646	There's no teasing, there's an explanation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0306par0647	Just to clarify the situation, so...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0307par0648	You talked.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0306par0649	Because I...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0307par0650	But we're giving the group vice presidents -- you know, something a little different.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0308par0651	President, Palestinians come to Turkey on visas, Israelis come without visas. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0307par0652	How, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0308par0653	Israelis come to Turkey without visas, Palestinians come to Turkey on visas.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0307par0654	I'm sorry, Mr. Tanal, do you want a word?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0308par0655	Such instability...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0307par0656	You don't want to, I get it. Mr. Timberboy, all right, all right. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0309par0660	I'd just like to remind you once again of a contract that's in the House transcripts and the voting logs. I hope the Palestinian youth also know that the Blue Marmara Agreement, against the persecution of Palestine, after the killings of the people who went there, disregarded the compensations of the victims, under which the agreement did not say "Tel Aviv" or "Kudus" (Kudus). Perhaps if the Palestinian youths had known this, the capital of Israel, Jerusalem, they would not have thought the same of Erdogan. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0310par0663	I'd like to make a statement, and I'd like to make it brief, very short, and it won't take a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0311par0664	Mr. Akbasoglu, one minute in total and it's getting longer... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0310par0667	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs; look, there's a global document in the United Nations General Assembly, which Turkey has taken the lead in; it's the newest, freshest, global document, binding for everyone. Turkey, led by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, led by the United Nations at the same time as the President of the Islamic Co-operation Organization, carried it to the United Nations by the will of 60 countries, and there is a decision made by 130 countries against the nine countries led by the United States: The Jerusalem is the capital of Palestine forever. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0312par0670	That's not the decision. The decision is the eternal capital of Palestine. Is it in the form of the United Nations?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0313par0671	Mr. President, sir, we've entered the system.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0314par0672	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0313par0674	Let me make some comments, Mr. President, since it's customary to comment after each speaker.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0314par0675	We've narrowed it down to a minute. It's automatic.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0313par0676	Then we'll talk without the microphone. One minute is up, Mr. President. So now, Erdogan's report card on Palestine... no doubt, Erdogan is not an enemy of the Palestinians, so there is no such claim. He didn't say anything about Palestine or the government's Palestinian policy, but Mr. Akbasoglu put it here. How did he tie it? At the General Assembly of the United Nations, Jerusalem is the capital of Palestine. A decision was made, and Erdogan contributed to it. A decision was made, "East Jerusalem," which was missing. It's already a general admission, a matter of the whole world's families, not just the Islamic geography, not the Islamic countries, but that East Jerusalem is the capital of Palestine, which is very backward, without even arguing about it. But in the middle, if you don't lift the embargo, I'm sorry... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You don't? You're not going to give it to anyone, are you?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0315par0680	I'm not giving it to anyone anymore.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0313par0681	But I don't know what you'd do to the MPs if the group's vice president was interrupted like that.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0315par0682	Next time, we'll comment on the next speaker.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0313par0683	Anyway, let's get him on record. Erdogan, who said, "Israel will apologize."
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0316par0685	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0313par0686	He couldn't. Who asked you?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0316par0687	Apologies, yes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0317par0688	Thank you, guys. İstanbul MP Gamze Akkuş Ilgez was on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Whitebird Illustration. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0318par0697	Mr. President, I have been promised the Republican People's Party Group in Article 9 of the 2019 budget proposal. I salute the High Council. Nazim Hikmet was calling out to you fifty-seven years ago with the words: unemployment, hunger, train accident, work accident, police club, prison door/welcome, baby, welcome, it's your turn to live. (CHP turns) Yes, from that day forward, nothing has changed in the fates of our children, of our children, of our young. Look, man's history is inextricable in the history of labor. So, today, we're not just discussing the budget of 2019, we're discussing tomorrows, actually, we're talking about the future of a country from its new nature to 7, 17, to 80, because this budget we're talking about is the fate of Turkey. So, a few days later, either you'll accept the poverty and poverty that delivers the streets, factories, schools and houses, or we'll give our people the good news of the days to come because the budget is not just the number, the increase, the cut, the percentage, the balance of imports and exports, the balance of statistics, or the fire of exchange; budgets are all about human beings, laborers, pensioners, pensioners, students, farmers' lives. Dear Regents, if we are representatives of the nation's will, we are in charge of upholding the rights of 81 million of our citizens without breaking the law and justice. That is why we must all fight together to ensure that all our citizens live a life worthy of human dignity. With this understanding, we see budget talks as an opportunity to divide public resources for the public, to eliminate individualism, which is the product of the free market economy, to destroy the selfishness of the self-absorbed understanding of profit. But in this 21-page budget offer, we've come across some kind of human economic arrangement. We searched the matter, and we couldn't find a new social contract that would destroy the hate speech that turned people against each other, differentiated, differentiated. And most of all, we haven't found any trace of a new political climate that's shaped on the basis of brotherhood, equality and freedom, where there's no hammock. However, we bear witness that this budget, which has been bypassed by parliament, has been passed down into history as a document of surrender. Do you know why we feel this budget is a surrender document? For 16 years, you ignored the problems growing like an avalanche. We have the authority to live in the Turkish Parliament, which cannot be handed over. As I said, you insisted on the bag of laws. You violated the law and prevented lawmakers from working freely. So you didn't just bring the country to the brink of economic straits, you brought it to the brink. After all, you found the cure in the bag again, in the budget. Look, a budget is only a public budget, given the state of the country. We wished that we would give life to the poor farmer, the unemployed worker, the other women, the non-employees, non-employees, non-employees, non-employment teachers, the doctors who were engaged in violent health workers, security investigations, the officer who studied the poverty budget, the employee who died every day under subcontractor pressure, the employee who died every day, the tax-pressed employee, tea, the job-seeker, the job-seeker, the job-seeker. Unfortunately, we're dealing with the opposite. Dear Regents, if you don't give citizens what's rightfully theirs while fighting inflation on one hand, if you ignore the odd guru, the poor wretch, if you add up the powers in one person, it's a waste budget. In waste budgets, you get guaranteed payments from unusable bridges, tunnels, and highways, but you ignore a citizen whose bones are considered by belt tightening. Look, there are 16 million poor people in this country. There's not a single line in this budget for 16 million poor people who support families on the hunger line at $794 a month. On the other hand, there's no minimum wage in this budget that keeps the prices going up everywhere. Look, just the other day, a minister here said he was paying less bills for the Asgari. Mr. Secretary, this is not a blessing. Give him 6 million minimum wage, and let him pay his bill, and live as a human being. Because people who work fifteen hours a day ask you for human life, not minimum. Look, just as we can't roll up the sun with clay, you can't create a strong economy with an increase in minimum wage. And what do we tell the workers that we have left to lose? In this budget, it's always forgotten about the workers who lost their share, the loss, the death, the suffering. The worker, who wanted to breathe at least a little bit, was again living below the poverty line. Whereas they are the ones who are not paid on time or are paid short. They're the ones who get overtime, they're not allowed 24 hours of rest. They're the ones whose rights to severance are most violated, sentenced to subcontractors in the slave system. They're the ones who were killed at work. In the past four years alone, 1 million 108,600 workers have been in a work accident, 5,916 have died, so 25 workers a week have been killed. If that's the case, then is it always up to me, master, to the laborer who manages to survive? It's a budget of waste. If the country's resources are being mobilized according to the needs of one per cent of the society, it is a budget of waste. Dear Regents, even though we've warned you for years, it's not going to save money. You said, "You've finally brought Turkey into the waste budget and condemned it." With this offer you call a savings budget, you've put the crisis you created on the citizens' backs. Instead of investing and producing, you took interest. With the budget for new taxes and tax increases, you have imposed a bitter prescription on our people. But the demands of millions of you were the same; they wanted to increase the minimum wage, raise wages to the human level, reduce taxes from citizens to reasonable levels, reduce basic consumer products from luxury, provide full employment security, remove debt interest and pay off loans, provide access to education and health, and increase public resources to at least twice the cost of economic and social needs. Instead, you're forcing millions on what we've got left. Look, if 1 million 1.18,000 women have made a decision to protect themselves, 406,000 women have suffered violence in five years, 2,082 women have been killed in eight years, 2017 if there are only 2 million women applying to ISKUR, if 20 million women are not in employment, 34 percent of girls are leaving education early, and if the social gender-sensitive budget is not prepared, we call the woman an enemy, hostile and anti-democracy enemy budget. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If 743 children in prison are homesick to fly with their mother, at least 159,000 children have been sexually abused in 12 years, 204,000 children have been born in nine years, 667 girls have been married at child age, 288,000 suspects have been abused, if 2,056 children have entered prison in 2017 alone, we do not accept this budget if the number of people who have been led to crime is 53 thousand, if the children have been poisoned by drugs at every corner, if 1 million 395, 621 children who have left high school and have been expelled from high school, if there are 288,000 girls who have been married by child abuse, we do not increase the level of well-being and security and education of our children. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If the executions are based on 7 million, if there are no more than 25 million people who have breached the ISKUR door in five years, if six disabled citizens are looking for work, if there are 44,277 people who have committed suicide in the past 16 years, if the number of people who have taken their lives out of income has exceeded 4,000, if the number of suspects who have been processed has come close to 12 million, if one of the seven is a suspect, if the prison you use all the letters of the alphabet has reached 259,000 people who have saved their lives, then we return it to those who have saved their lives, not from glory.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0319par0713	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0318par0714	Because if you raid the budget so openly, you'll keep Turkey from becoming an institutional state. You make it a tent state with double roads, like in the Libyan region of Gaddafi, with large constructions, but without a place in the world, without institutionalization. Know that we will not be a party to this crime. I end my words again with the poetry of Nazim Hikmet: ▪ There is no shadow on the land of great mankind But there's hope for the great humanity It's not hopeless. Remember, hope frees, fear captures. Despite this budget, which holds no trace of man or life, I salute and honor the young, the old, the old, the man, the man, all of our people.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0320par0724	Now, on behalf of himself, Kütahya MP Ceyda Cetin Eren. Here you go, Mr. Cetin Erens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0321par0728	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 9 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute our General Assembly and all of our citizens who are watching us at the beginning of their screens, wishing that our work and our budget, which will come out, would be a blessing for our nation and our country. With the strength of our national and spiritual values to be the party of 80 million citizens, our government, which has provided great services for our country, great reforms, has expanded our economy by more than four times in this sixteen-year period. In 2002, our exports of $36 billion reached 170 billion by the end of 2018. Our GDP went from $226 billion to $850 billion. FROM education to health, from justice, from transportation to agriculture, from industry to social aid, our country has been given numerous projects in all areas, and the foundations of major projects worldwide that produce sound. The opening of our Istanbul Airport, which is the largest in the world and connects the 60-million-dollar economies with the 60-million-dollar countries, has also opened the openings of the Star refinery and the TANAP Project, which has very important investments in its fields. The Turkish Stream Gas Pipeline Project, which is linked to our country under the Black Sea, is also a very important strategy. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, as we all know, have reached 65 per cent of the locality and nationality in the defence industry today. The Turkish Space Agency, which has been our great dream since Ali Birdçu and Uluğ Bey, has been established in our country, which is rapidly moving towards having power in all areas of defence, aviation and space technology. Our EC PARTY governments will continue to carry out their project again tomorrow, as it is today, and will continue to advance towards becoming a global force that will bring our country among high-income countries. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, under the leadership of our President, we will continue to walk with our nation, with determination and dedication, making sure of our goals of 2023, 2053 and 2071. Our Kütahya (Kütahya) has also benefited from numerous investments in our country from 2002 to today, with an investment of 12 billion 872 million and 999,000 liras. With its geographical location, logistical advantage and investment incentives provided by our state, it is also an opportunity for local and foreign investors to have a large share of the qualities sought in national and international economic activities. Thus, the city of the organization and the city of salvation, Kütahya, is fast on its way to becoming an industrial city. I'd like to express our beautiful Kütahya, who inspired poets for hundreds of years, and Sultan Veled, the son of Mevlana. Happy is he who stays in Judah for a month. If you stay for two months, you will be more prosperous. Kütahya is a perfect beauty. Is there such a way to kill the perfect beauty? O Lord, don't trouble this land by accident. Heaven is either beneath the Kütahya, or above it. And Lahore, and Kashmir, and Tebriz, and Kütahiah. Mr. President, I urge you, our esteemed MPs, to explore our wealth, our 12 counties of valuable wealth, history, culture, art, thermal, natural tourism, and investment opportunities, the Kütahya, as our city of investments, to look up to itself as we discover it, to explore these riches, to explore our dowry chest. As I end my words, I salute our Veteran Assembly, our General Assembly, and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0322par0743	Thank you. On behalf of him now, Mr. Bursa MP Erkan Aydın.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0323par0745	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0324par0746	Mr. President, may I have a word with you for the record, sir?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0322par0747	Then I'll give you my word after the speech. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0325par0750	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 9th Amendment of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute you all with love and respect. We've been talking about the first budget of a system that is nowhere in the world for about ten days. You say the presidency, but when you talk to each other, you say the president; you say the government system, you call it the walking system, but the system's name is from here, the government system. Now, what did you say when you went to the box at the 2017 referendum? The old parliamentary system is cumbersome, not fast, the bureaucracy is heavy. We're going to speed up the system. What happened? We're in debt fast, we're in poverty fast, our money's worth is going down fast, we're going down fast as a whole country; you're right about that! Now, we're looking at this budget; what's the 9th article about? It's all about investments, but it's only an investment of 10 billion dollars; it's also a budget offer that you put in for $117 billion in interest. In many talks, Mr. President, especially to the pensioners, to the elderly, he says: "Tell the young people about the old Turkey. Let them learn how old Turkey was. Let us hear what the former Turkey was like from Albanian Selim. Albanian Selim said, "Get together, I'm telling you. I'm 53 years old. I'm retired to the S.E.C. I've been working since I was 14. Kiss your hands, I have two twin daughters. We didn't have a credit card at the time, so we used to borrow it at the grocery store or something, but there were no supermarkets, so the house wouldn't be foreclosed. If you were a member of the Revolutionary Workers' Union (DİSK), the boss wouldn't have bothered to kick him out like that. No one had the heart to treat a civil servant like a dog; 657 were strict laws. The teacher was respected, but parents couldn't come in and kick ass, and they wouldn't rape their students. It took a lot of courage to smoke secret cigarettes from teachers, but no one would have thought of selling drugs in front of the school. You could kiss your neighbor's children any way you wanted, and no one would think, "Is he going to harass the child?" Everyone who believed didn't look at children as angels. It was the reputation of getting beaten up by the neighborhood imam, not to mention being molested. When he went to your father and broke a club on my back, he said, "Wow, you rascal! He would throw a stick, but he wouldn't ask you if he had done anything else." When your father got close to retiring, you and your mother would look for two eye rooms because your bonus would have been enough for him. When you buy a house, you ask a friend for help. No one will say 70 percent inflation. I'll give you dollars, I'll get dollars. You'd get in line, you'd get in line, you'd get in line, but you'd listen to stories about people who met in those lines and got married. There was still a difference in school, but no one's parents or children would be in the same class with him. He couldn't say, "It was a sin, it was a sin, really, they were ashamed of God and his servant. He used to sell a million. These comic magazines would dress all the politicians in bulk, but no politician would be involved because they would know that Storm and Sheets would wrap them up to those politicians, especially those politicians who would talk to Oğuz Aral. What do you mean, "Ataturk/e"? His house would be occupied, his colt would scatter Istanbul! Take your mother with you. She couldn't speak the words, "Is she a woman or a politician?" All politicians had diplomas, but Ecevit, for example, had a university degree. Wouldn't that be stealing? Of course it would, but that man would be wiped out of the field, whether it was the PM's nephew or the SMI Director. One last thing, I went to school with the same jacket, the same pants, and I wasn't afraid of the future.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0326par0758	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0325par0759	...I've always found something to laugh about, to be happy about, but for 16 years I've been afraid of the future and the future and the future of my children, and you too should be afraid, says Selim, Albanian. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, with both this budget and the situation of the country at the end of the 16 years... as the President said, yes, the young people who are able to age this beautiful Turkey, yes, poor, yes, the income is not much, but we have to tell each other about the people who are happy, hopeful, poor, and neighborly, and we do not approve of this poverty budget, this poor man, and we will vote with the General Assembly, where we give them a vote of no return.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0326par0763	Thank you. Mr. Kara, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0327par0767	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened carefully to our precious orator. Every inch of our country is watered by the blood of martyrs, and every city is beautiful. And I'm sure it's a beautiful city, but it's either here or under here. Beyşehir is the summer capital of Seljuklu, and we patented it from the Turkish Patent Institute. I wanted to inform you, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0328par0776	Now, dear friends, we're doing a question-and-answer on Article 9; five minutes of questions, five minutes of answers. Mr. Gaytancioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0329par0778	Thank you, Mr. President. AKP's agricultural policy is now completely bankrupt. The AKP, which failed to lower food prices, saw the solution in continuous imports rather than supporting the manufacturer. Food prices have increased over continuous inflation. I wonder why. Because the exchange rate is increasing, and the price of fertilizer, medicine, and masods that we've been buying for currency is going up all the time. Again, unfortunately, we're importing half the food raw material, even though we can produce it. What are we importing? Egypt, soy, sunflower, wheat, barley, here, these are the raw materials. Why do you think bait prices are rising in Turkey? In short, our farmer works on diesel, fertilizer, and medicine; he tries to eat; he doesn't have money in his pocket, he can't pay his debts anymore. Instead of eradicating the reasons for high input costs, the government is looking for a solution in imports. Now, my question is, when are you going to give up this policy? So when are you going to lower the price of input, to support product prices?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0330par0782	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0331par0783	Thank you, Mr. President. As EC PARTI governments, we are again allocated $65.1 billion to invest in the development and growth of the country in the budget of 2019. Where do we invest in this budget, and who do we have? Development, growth, prosperity, education, production, of course, employment, our young people, our families, our workers, our farmers, our students, the oppressed people, our young people, our investors, and our investors, until their latest terrorist and terrorist homes are destroyed, there is a place in this budget for our internal security for a stronger country. It's all in the central budget in 2019. So we have 82 million people. For this, I would like to thank Mr. President, who has prepared this first budget for the presidential system, the team that has prepared it, the President of the Plan and Budget Commission, who has worked for days, and the members of the Council of Ministers and the staff who have attended the talks until morning.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0330par0785	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0332par0786	Thank you, Mr. President. Thousands of subcontractors were promised, but the staff was not. The subcontractors in the municipality were transferred to companies, the main staff and equal work were not paid. The workers who became regular employees in subcontractors were not included in the public collective agreement. By October 2020, the High Referee Board was subject to a collective agreement and deprived of all rights used by former staff workers. Inflation doesn't benefit those who pass through the subcontractors. Inflation is 25 percent, but laborers are sentenced to 4+4. They don't even have transfer rights. The subcontractors must be included in the 2019 contract. Anyone who's been laid off with a security investigation must be hired. Those who remain in subcontractors in the OSCE and ministries must be given a staff immediately. Since the pre-December 4th tender has ended, those who are unemployed must start work after December 4th, and those who have no staff must be given a position. The problem with the subcontractor is...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0330par0789	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0333par0790	I'm asking the Secretary of Treasury and Finance: 1) According to the Court's 2017 report, the Centre for Investor Compensation is a separate institution with a legal personality within the SEC. Part of the administrative fines imposed by the SEC are among the revenues of this institution. Some of the administrative fines issued by the SPK, found in the 36-43 pages of the report, are still unaccounted for due to the weakness of management... will you start any investigation into it? 2) The Investor Retribution Centre report revealed the situation of bankruptcy administrations and the point of the justice system. In 1999, a fund was established to compensate for the losses of investors who had been bankrupted in the economic crisis in 1994, but 18 years later, a certain portion of the rights owners were paid, and some of them were not. Will you be working on that? When will these debts be paid?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0334par0793	Mr. Vahaboglu...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0335par0794	Mr. President, the map on the website of the regional organisation Eurasia's Economic Union shows that Turkey is written on the top of its website. This can't be a mistake and it can't be accepted. To correct the map on the Eurasia Economic Union website, the initiative must be made by the State Department and the Russian Federation, which hosted its centre in Moscow. My respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0334par0796	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0336par0797	Mr. President, the State of Emergency Commission has received over 130,000 applications so far. About 40,000 have been evaluated and 2,700 have been returned to work. Although there are people in the court who can't go back to work, even though they've made a decision to not follow or be acquitted, there are people who have been rejected. There are allegations that being exonerated in this Commission is not a valid criteria, that if the head of the relevant institution does not give positive references, the person cannot return to his work, even though he has been cleared in the judiciary. Are these claims true? If it's true, there's a very serious claim that even though the person is cleared, there's a Department of Internal Affairs commission that doesn't trust the judgment. If you don't trust the judgment, why do you judge these people if you're simply deciding whether to fire them or return them to work according to the head of the relevant agency?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0334par0798	Yes, for the answer, Mr. Commissioner, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0337par0799	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 9 is the article that regulates investors' spending. Here are the conditions for a grant to be invested in the investment programme in 2019, which can't be spent on any project except in additional investment tables, and for years of good work, for a job to be tendered. In the same way, the funding of public administration's investment programme is organised on the basis that projects and projects will comply with changes in their sub-projects. The funds for investment projects in public administration's budgets will also be decided to be linked to the investment programme, based on procedures and fundamentals in the resolution on implementation, co-ordinating and monitoring of the programme in 2019. In the investment programme of 2019, the additional investment boards also have the ruling that the necessary changes to be made during the year will be followed by compliance with the procedures in the resolution on the implementation and monitoring of the 2019 programme. Finally, the 5th joke is to link projects in the investment programme that will be earmarked to the budget of 2019 to those who have not been used from funds for their work through Investment Watch and Co-ordination Presidencys. Likewise, there had been a question earlier about these spare funds, I believe, from Mr. Sugar. Under Article 23 of Law 5018, the President is entitled to carry out services and purposes specified in the Central Management Budget Law and to have a reserve allowance for services that are not foreseen in the budgets, and to transfer from these funds if necessary. The 2019 budget also envisions a total of $7 billion,866m grants for backup funds. This grant is transferred to institutional budgets to provide additional funding for the implementation of the budget. In the past years, backup funds have also been used largely for investment spending. In the same way, the Finance Minister was authorized in the previous budget laws, including these back-up grants, and is now authorized by the Treasury and Finance Minister. And since it's always on the agenda here, I'd like to share some data on agriculture. Once, when we look at imports and export rates, in 2003-2018, 52 million tons of imports worth 14.6 billion dollars, we see 66 million tons of exports being made worth 26.1 billion dollars. Here, when you look at it, $11.5 billion in exports and over 14 million tons in quantity, you see a product being exported. When the end of 2018 years is taken into account, in the last 16 years, when we look at all the exact accounts, all the budgets, we see that $117.4 billion in cash grants have been provided, and in 2019, the amount of support has been planned to be increased by 10.7 per cent compared to this year, compared to 2018. When we look inside this process, we see that the VAT is removed from fertilizer and bait, that 50 per cent of diesel costs are supported, and that diesel and fertilizer has so far been provided with $17.3 billion in support. Similarly, as part of field-based support, we look at the supports for diesel, chemical fertilizer, organic agricultural practices and nut producers and small family enterprises under 5 Dear and below, in all this process, in 2003-2018, our farmers were paid 37.2 billion lira in support. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0338par0810	Thank you. Dear friends...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0339par0812	There's time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit02spe0338par0813	Nine seconds. You don't have it. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. Mr. President, thank you very much. After the ordeal in 2016, our tourism sector, which quickly recovered in 2017, reached about 32 million tourists with an increase of 23 per cent as of the third quarter of 2018. It means that by the end of the year, the Turkish record will be broken by over 40 million. However, our main goal will be to increase tourism revenue, as well as the number of tourists. In our tourist capital, Antalya, our number of tourists has broken the record of all time, over 13 million. Next year, we'll have a much better tourist season waiting for us. The 2019 early booking sales started with numbers that were way over last year. For this purpose, we have come to an end in preparations that will attract tourism investments in our country. I wish our budget of 2019 was good for our country and our nation. Thank you. Thus, talks on Article 9 have been completed. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0338par0001	I now open the Third Session of Turkey's 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019. The commission is in place. MADDE 10- (1) The Treasury and Finance Ministry budget; a) 12.01.32. 00-06. 1. 0. 07-1-05. The grant, which is part of the 2 subsidies, is dated 13/1/2005, and has been handed over to the county's private administrations in accordance with Law 5286, to pay for their monthly and all other financial and social rights. B) 12.01.32. 00-06. 1. 0. 08-1-07. As part of the 1-site grant, the Support of the Villages' Infrastructure Project (KODES), the special administrations and/or villages' services for the infrastructure needs of the villages, c) 12.01.32. 00-06. 1. 0. 09-1-07. As part of the 1-site grant, the Water Sewer and Infrastructure Project (SUKAP), the County Bank Anonym Corporation is responsible for carrying out the municipal drinking water and wastewater projects. It's used to be justified. In the event of need under SDUAP, funds can be transferred to the relevant public administration budget or to the private budgetary management budget under the general budget. As part of this joke, the assistance of the Treasury to relevant governments is impregnable and cannot be guarded. (2) The procedure and basis for payments according to the first joke (a) are determined by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Treasury and Finance. (3) The funds included in the 1st joke (b) and (c) beneficiaries are determined by the President of the 2019 Investment Programme, and for SDUAP, the distribution, use, monitoring, and control of municipalities is decided by the President. On behalf of the 10th article, Bursa MP Ahmet Kamil Erozan. Here you go, Mr. Erozan. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0340par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, two days ago on the 17th, I finished my speech on the State Department budget. If you'll excuse me, I'll pick up where I left off today. What is foreign policy? Foreign policy is security, of course it's stability, of course it's peace, but beyond that, it's economics and development. Why is it an economy? I'd like to stress the following factors: Where would we be today if there were no errors in Syrian policy? Where were we if the stock market hadn't crashed? Where would we be if the exchange hadn't been dry-dried? Where would we be if it weren't for the pastoral crisis? Where would we be today if we didn't call some European countries "fascist" and "Nazi"? I'll tell you where we're going to be: if there were no mistakes made in what I said and what I mentioned in my speech the other day, today, the law of pensioners would have been lifted 40 times, 3600 indicators would have been given 40 times, no taxes from minimum wage would have happened many times. Unfortunately, none of this was done, but I crashed the Russian plane. The various leaders of power competed against each other. Today, I'm going to talk about what needs to be done, not what needs to be done, rather than what should be done, and I'm going to bring it up, of course, as a future ruling candidate party. POLISM will not be a place for good foreign policy. Our foreign policy will be implemented by a peaceful and rational approach, moving from facts and facts. Foreign policy issues will be especially avoided as domestic policy materials. In implementing our foreign policy, the protection and consolidation of our national unity, our country's integrity and national security will be our primary goal. Our foreign policy, our achievements from history, the wealth of our geography, will be created with political reality on the basis of our country's strategic and geopolitical position, the protection of Turkey's sovereignty rights and multidimensional interests. On the basis of international law, a deterrent, balanced, peaceful, effective, smart, stable, reliable, reliable, stable, realistic of the Great Ataturk. A foreign policy will be implemented, not only for the prevention of problems, but also for the fulfillment of crises; it will be based on friendship, good neighbourhood and co-operation; it will be based on the sovereignty of other countries and territorial integrity. Turkey will be saved from precious loneliness in foreign policy. The mistake of Middle Easternization, which our country has recently been pushed into with religious, religious, and social engineering approaches, will be put to rest. Our responsibilities in the founder or international institutions we belong to will be fulfilled according to the bilateral and multilateral agreements and the principle of loyalty in the covenant. The neighbour, allies and partners will also have a firm, persistent and observant attitude towards fulfilling their commitment to Turkey. A strong State Department staff, whose institutional identity, customs and professional structure, is a precondition for monitoring a national foreign policy, will be re-intended and protected. We believe that Turkey-European Union relations and full membership perspectives are as important to the European Union as to Turkey. We sit on the basis of a healthy relationship and think that Turkey-EU relations are not only important for both sides, but also for the Middle East, the Caucasus, the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. In this framework, the GOOD PARTY will create a basis for a relationship in relations with the European Union that represents the mutual interests of the parties and will walk in the direction of full membership. To maintain peace in the Middle East, to improve the opportunities for co-operation, to develop non-aggression and good neighbourly relations, to take care of the region's problems without interference in internal affairs, to help countries in the region create their own solution processes, to work closely with countries in order to prevent foreign intervention from close and distant geography, to ensure peace, security and peace. Our party opposes the fact that the Greek Cypriot side is investigating hydrocarbon sources around Cyprus, ignoring the Turkish Cypriot people's original rights to natural resources, the island's co-owner. The Greek Cypriot administration will be determined to prevent this unilateral activities and its actions that constitute rape in Turkey's exclusive economic zone. Turkey will conduct its relations with its neighbour, allied and EU partner Greece on the basis of stability, friendship, good neighbourhood and co-operation. We will work with good intentions and sincerity to resolve problems between the two states through dialogue and negotiating methods. In our work, we will focus on the 1923 Lausanne and 1947 Paris Accords and the strategic balance between the two states. Despite the same international organisations and alliances, we will be determined to protect and prevent violations of our country's rights and sovereignty in the Republic of Turkey against the fundamental provisions of international law and agreements. We see the Black Sea as a region that will enable the concrete cooperation of the countries around us as a geographical position. The global fight against terrorism is now a very important place in international relations and foreign policy in countries. Because of war and civil conflicts, foreign migrations have become a threat to world peace. In cases such as human, weapons and narcotics trafficking, which have emerged as a by-product of these migration trends, the fight against the problem is necessary not only in national terms but also internationally. Those who reject Turkishism have no ties to the Turkish world. With one example, I would like to emphasize that the borrower gets the order. I'm afraid it's been confirmed once again because of the fact that his word is true, that he's been reduced to our brothers in East Turkistan. While the world is focused on the subject and has become a follower, power has not been able to pay a visit to the Chinese People's Republic of China authorities to visit East Turkistan, and to look at the situation. Despite our persistent interrogations, power prefers to play three monkeys about our Uyghur brothers. Unfortunately, the situation of the Ahiska Turks, Turkmen and Crimean Tatars is not so different. The fact that our relatives abroad have been divided as they have been done to our citizens in our country has taken the activity of these communities, one of the key leverages of foreign policy, off the agenda. The description of our people and others has also been applied to the Turkish minorities in Western Thrace and Bulgaria, to the Turks in Kosovo, to our relatives in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, to the Turks in Syria and Iraq. The Turkish world, which has spread throughout Eurasia, represents an important dimension of foreign policy. Millions of people in this land, where we share common history and culture, will be embraced as brothers. Our descendants in the Balkans, which we consider an integral part of Eurasia's geography, will also form the bridge of friendship between the countries they live in and Turkey. Nearly 60 years have passed since our citizens left for Europe as refugees, and today the fourth generation has been reached. The descendants of those who went as workers became employers in the countries where they are now. AS A GOOD PARTY, we will encourage our descendants to preserve their own selves, tongues, religion, and customs, to become trusted citizens of states in their country, to enrich the lives of the people in their cultural colors and wealth, to learn the language of the country they live in. Before I put an end to my words, I find it useful to list the problems of our citizens abroad, who are demanding that our citizens and relatives be spoken of every day, not elected, but embraced from election to election.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0341par0037	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0340par0038	Unfortunately, neither Mr. Secretary of State nor any other parties have touched on these issues. I'm going to count a few samples, if you'll excuse me. Obstructions for our citizens with blue cards should be removed. When a population registration sample is requested, a closed-record warning is an obstacle to receiving the loan. The discomfort of sharing personal information is increasing. In particular, work must be done to defend and maintain the pension rights of our women living abroad. Promises made in this regard must be fulfilled. Turkish citizens returning to Turkey permanently must be allowed to receive their savings in the German pension vault without waiting two years. A certificate of international health care issued by German health insurance must be eliminated from the joy of ratifying it to the county health department in Turkey. Financial support and encouragement should be provided for those who want to invest in Turkey. We're in an environment where the price of airline tickets is insurmountable, regardless of distances. For example, a family of four from France can come and go to Turkey for 2,000 euros. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I need 30 seconds.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0342par0048	Finish it before it expires.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0340par0049	The funeral arrangements of our citizens who have passed away abroad must be eased, allowing at least two relatives to travel with the funeral at a discount. Those who work abroad for 20 years and decide to return to a permanent home must be provided with the means to bring a tax-free and customs-free vehicle. Turkish children protected in some European countries must be prevented from being taken from their families. Cell phone registration, passport and priced military fees must be reduced and if possible, brain migration must be turned down. I hereby declare that we will be followers of these expectations, and I would like to express in particular that we expect that when the solutions to our citizens' problems abroad will be brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we will expect that the government will not vote against them in accordance with the agreement. Thank you very much, my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0343par0056	Thank you. Dear friends, there's a problem with this computer system, we're going to turn it on and off, but we've manually recorded our friends entering the system, and we're going to follow that order. You're gonna have to go back into the system so we can promise you this, but we have the list. Ankara MP Yasar Yıldırım will now speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0344par0062	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I have made a pledge on the 10th Amendment under the title of the operations of the government. What we call local administrations is called local governments. We face a serious problem with local administrations in Turkey. With the latest Metropolitan Law, rural areas have been transferred to municipalities without a job. With the transfer of rural areas to municipalities, there has been difficulties in bringing services to villages. We're in winter now, we're in winter. The roads are closed in many areas where snow is abundant in winter. The municipalities do not do or do what is necessary. And when they are asked, we face similar statements, such as there are no funds, no funds, no money, no money, and foreclosures. In this sentence, 51 of our provinces continue to serve as village servants. The municipalities would look at village services before the villages were transferred, and so far they're continuing their service of village services in 51 counties. Urbanism is a unit and a region that lasts from the cradle to the grave, where our people face each stage of their lives, where they need it. Now, the trouble we have here, 51 of our provinces, is not as much as the troubles of our great cities. In 51 of our provinces, village services continue to serve, and the village services open up many roads, bring water to many places, make the road and continue similar activities. Our problem here is reviewing the Metropolitan Law. As the Metropolitan Law continues and the mayors and mayors in major cities look at the countryside like this, our people in the countryside will have more problems. Our people in the countryside shouldn't be forced to emigrate. In the countryside, life needs to be made more attractive and supported. Why should he be supported? If we don't make it attractive to rural people, not encourage them to stay in the village, if we do actions and verbs that will cause them to migrate to centers and city centers, the cities will start to collapse. The stockpile in the cities will increase even more, and the service of our people in the city will be less. From air pollution to water failure, from zoning congestion to transportation, we all have problems in cities together. For this reason, first of all, it is useful to maintain incentives and similar activities in Turkey in the rural part of our country to live in the places of our people in the villages, not to migrate, to make their lives in that region more qualified and perfect. However, lawmakers, we all live in Ankara. Although some of you go to their provinces, even if you go to their homes, and you are in Ankara, and you use water in Ankara, Parliament, your home, your village. Ankara's water comes from the north of Ankara, and all our dams are north of Ankara. We get drinking water from Redcahamam, Çamlıdere and Kazan in northern Ankara. The dams set up on rivers around here cover Ankara's drinking water. There's a rule in local governments: you run water at home, you make the road, otherwise local governments are not local governments. Right now, alhamdulillah, our water flows from the moment we turn on the tap in Ankara. There are four dams north of Ankara. One of them is on your way, the wolf's throat; Bayin is on the pinelidere highway; Eğrekkaya and Akyar Dams. These dams are built on rivers that pass through Redcahamam, Çamlıdere, Modül, Beypazarı and Kazan within our counties. With the water brought to Ankara, the agriculture of all our farmers in those areas is finished. So, we brought water to Ankara, the residents of Ankara, the residents of Ankara are taking advantage of this comfort, but our farmer, who lives around water and water from those areas, has fallen into distress. We say urbanization is bound to happen, but it shouldn't damage the urbanization area. If it harms its environment while urbanization is being done, it must be compensated in some way. You see, there's a village of Redcoats called Strider, but you don't plant a tripe. Kızılcahamam rice was one of the most famous rices in Turkey. It's interesting that there's a structure -- people know -- it's rice that doesn't raise sugar, it's garlic, but it doesn't grow a kilo of rice right now. Again, in the markets, they sell the redwood beans, but Redwood doesn't have beans because there's no water, they sell the beans of another place as red beans. That's what I'm talking about. Beypazarı and Modül were also affected by the dam built over these rivers. I call to all the authorities from here, we say, whether it's ASKI or State Waterworks, if there's urbanization in one area, water goes to that area, and if water gets in the way of someone's bread, you give it to them. In the comfort of Ankara, let it flow in its home, but let the victim of the Redcoat, the victim of the Çamlıdere, the victim of the Modullah, the victim of the Beypazarite's sacrifice be removed. That's for politicians, that's for us. It also falls to Parliament: All members of parliament are in Ankara at least three days a week, and many of us are sitting here. There is such a problem with our Redcoat, our Pinedree, our Modulah, and our Beypazari. We can't ignore this trouble. There's bound to be urbanization, there's bound to be construction, but it shouldn't hurt anyone else. You're going to take the bread and vaccine from one side, you're going to bring comfort to another, and he's going to be a victim. What is your victimhood, what is your need, and what is your distress? And it was not asked of you that we should take your water, and we should take your bread; are you in need of bread, or of food, or of any trouble? Kızılcahamam is the district of Çamlıdere Ankara. Most of the roads are closed now, you can't go to mountain villages, but they won't speak, they won't speak, they're loyal to the state, they're a member of the nation. We are hungry, we are exposed, we die, we stay. They don't shout, they love their state, but this love also has to have a price. You take the food out of his hand, the drink out of his hand, the water out of his hand. And his father came at the time, and built a house by it, and built a village; and there he soweth and soweth and groweth vegetables and provideth for it. Ankara is growing, you bring water to Ankara, you bring Ankaran's comforts up, you don't compromise its comforts, but you watch the people there starve, stay out in the open. It's neither right nor justice. It's not in the conscience. It's not in the mind. We have a duty to speak here of the victims of the Redcahamam, of Çamlıdere, of Modül, of Beypazarı, of our villages and of our towns in Kirmir Valley. Because of this mission, I would also like all of you -- the political opposition -- to draw attention and help all of our parliamentary friends in parliament. However -- our time is over -- that our budget brings blessings to the Turkish nation, our country, our Parliament -- I ask God to bless you, and I salute you all. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0345par0074	Thank you. Now, on the 10th article, Adana MP Kemal Peköz on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Peköz. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0346par0079	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of my group on the 10th amendment of the budget bill, I respectfully salute the House. Today is December 19th, the anniversary of two very bad events with a black mark on our history. One is the anniversary of an event that took place in 2000 under the name Operation Return to Life, where 28 people lost their lives. I honor those who have lost their lives, and wish that this never happens in our country again. Another is the 40th anniversary of the Maraş massacre. The Maraş massacre is one of the interstate stops of a process that began with the Koğgiri (October 10th) Gar massacre. 111 of our people lost their lives in the events of a serious provocation in Maraş. Most of those who lost their lives were Kurds, Alevis, and democrats. Before the Maraş massacre began, the population in Maraş looked like 50 to 50 percent, so the Kurds and Turks lived together, side by side, life and death, as neighbours. After this massacre, a large number of people had to leave Marashan; most of them went abroad, and others went to the metropolitan provinces. The current population is about 15 per cent -- the population of Alevis and Kurds -- in that sense. I don't go into too much detail because there's been a lot of marathon killings. What happened after the marathon massacre? There were victims and accomplices of the Maraş massacre. Three lawyers defending their victims were killed on September 10, 1979, on February 3, 1980, on May 3, 1980. So, what happened to the first defendant in the Maraş massacre? Most of them were tried, sentenced to death; the Supreme Court violated the sentence, and they were released with a 1991 pardon. Later, the number-one defendant of the massacre became a member of parliament; he was not satisfied with it; he was taken to the Human Rights Commission; he was not satisfied with it; he was invited to the Aleki workshops as chief resident and hosted. And the reason I'm telling you right now is not to scratch things, to refresh them, to bring them back to life, but to the contrary, to face them so that they don't happen again, to learn from it, to strengthen the ground of living together. For that, the Joint Chiefs have an archive on the Maraş massacre, which must be opened and disclosed. Documents related to the Marash massacre in his safe and drawer after the death of the late Bulent Ecevit. Some of the massacres are still unknown. They need to be determined, explained, and their families, their children, their grandchildren, to be able to go and visit those graves. The pain of the Maraş massacre must be faced, and then there must be a retrial process to prevent any of this from happening, because I don't think there's a period of trial in human rights violations, so there's no statute of limitations. Finally, obstacles must be removed from the memory of those who lost their lives in the massacre, and the memory of their relatives, families, and friends who wanted to make it in Marash, and people should be able to make such reminders freely. Mr. President, we're here in this Parliament to discuss all Turkey's problems and to produce solutions. There are speeches every day, different views are expressed on this platform, but our problems are increasing a little bit each day, a little bit more folding, a little bit more unresolved. A friend of ours used three innocent Kurdish words on the stand the other day, and it immediately reacted, and was opposed. In 2009, he went to the late President, Demirel Moldova, where he met with the President for celebrating the 15th year of Gagavuzya's autonomy, and gave the President a statement and thanked them for the rights given to the Gagavuz. Two months ago, again, our current President, Mr. Erdogan, went to Moldova. For the same minor, he expressed these words and thanked them in his speech there in the square, where he expressed how important education was in the native language. Dear friends, you've all been abroad. When any of us go abroad, we look at it with sympathy, with a smile, when we hear a word from our own language or the language of the country we live in -- both Kurdish and Turkish -- from my point of view. For this, a language is one of human qualities and qualities that should be essential. It's preventing it, it's resisting it... we find it positive to be around people we think are racemen, or people we think are underdogs all over the world, and there's nothing to object to. But at the same time, the obstacles in Turkey that are said to be between 15 and 20 million -- since the net number is not mentioned in the census, since it does not come out -- must be removed from the way Kurds can train with their own language, provide their lives with their own language. And I don't think it's right for us to understand that, that we should give up, that we should be expected to have a different attitude than that. We didn't want to have a country outside of Turkey, we didn't want to live in another country, and we didn't consider it in various times, although most of us had the means, because it's our country, it's our problems here, it's our pain here. We don't compete in suffering, including the pain I just mentioned, and we don't compete in death, and we don't find the racers right. Just as I feel in my heart the pain of Uður Kaymaz, who was killed with 14 bullets at the age of 13, I doubt my own humanity if I don't feel the pain of Aybuke, who was killed at the age of 22 if I don't feel it in my own heart. You talk about the murders of 53 people while you talk about the events of October 6th and 8th one day, but you mention the names of one person. He advises you to show the same empathy, not to separate people from death, from pain, from blood, and we expect that from you. I'm speaking as a friend of yours who contributed to Turkey's culture and education with 1,982 broadcasts in Turkey, what I just said is true, sincere, and sincere feelings. We are the youngest age-average party in this House. We, again, are the highest representation of women in this House. Again, we are a political party made up of parts that differ from language, religion, religion, culture, and therefore feel and express all the pain about everything. The religious leader of Tibet, the Dalai Lama, has a famous saying, if you've read his books, I care very much that whoever he is, even if he is your enemy, don't hold grudges and hatred against him in your hearts because hatred and hatred consume you first. Your enemy will not spare you twenty-four hours, but your heart will be with you for twenty-four hours, and therefore your heart will be filled with hatred and hatred. But don't give up on what you think is right, what you think is right, what you think is scientific, and make sure you say it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0347par0094	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0346par0095	The other day I went on a trip to Alexander's house, and I saw an article in the prison, an expression of the Lord Ali, saying: "The greatest jihad is to stand before the wrong one and say, "You are wrong." We will continue to stand here against the wrong one, against the wrong one, against the wrong one, against the wrong one. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0347par0098	Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Eskişehir MP Jale Nur Sullü. Here you go, Mr. Sullu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0348par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Court, honorable lawmakers, I salute the High Council with respect and love. I have made a pledge on behalf of my Republican People's Party Group to discuss Article 10 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. The local administrations mentioned in the 10th article regarding local administrations have had a lot of controversy in the budget talks, which is more widely defined by local governments. There have been a lot of promises in the elections in the squares, but we've seen your sense of municipalism in your practices. Your former Istanbul Mayor, your president, the President's confessions about Istanbul have summed up your understanding of municipalism beautifully. What did Mr. Erdogan say about Istanbul, which he described as an ancient and exceptional city? We don't appreciate this city, we betray this city, we still betray it, and I am responsible for it. Look, what are the new plans for the understanding that he confessed to betraying Istanbul? The 10th article that we are discussing connects the President with the budget Law Proposal of 2019. Is it over? No. Look what's left of it. The bag, which is scheduled to arrive in parliament next week, is subject to the President's authority to pay the aid grant if they request the municipalities. These arrangements allow the president to transfer money from this grant to the municipality in the name of the implementation of aid-qualified projects. There is no objective basis for the use of the budget. All the arbitrary decisions that will be made will prevent fair use of resources. Is it over? No. There are other good news that will make the rant barons very happy, looking forward to their share of the budget. Again, it has been transferred to the President of the cities to be transferred to a ministry after the construction of cable cars, monorails, subways, and urban rail transport systems, and to the majority of the municipal budgets and tax revenues in this bag, and to be cut off from the general budget and tax revenue collection total, and its procedures are determined. And that would be a pleasant and gracious outcome. It is the decision of the President to cut the criteria unspecified by the law, to determine the basic and procedures of the President, to elect the authority of the local authorities that have been elected to work by the election. In addition to having authority, strengthening the central administration based on the joy of one man is a violation of the management principle in place of the European Convention on Local Administration. Another practice that undermines the management principle is the collection of funds to the municipality in August under the Bank of the Single Treasure Institutions. This arrangement adopted centralist politics and custody over local governments, raising central pressure on the financial structure and decisions of municipalities. On the other hand, the 6360 Metropolitan Municipality Law, issued with political accounts in 2012, was supposedly under the name of strengthening local governments. With this law, 14 major city municipalities were established, 25 district municipalities were established; 30 districts of private administrations were closed, 635 district municipalities were closed; 16.561 village administration's legal personality was eliminated. Large-city municipalities, which are supposedly forced to deliver limited budgets to towns, towns, neighborhoods, and villages that are many miles away from themselves, are having problems and costs are increasing. By this law, the existence of villages, agricultural production, management of rural resources is ignored. The closed cities, 16,561 villages, are unable to receive sufficient services, where our citizens are in a difficult position with the Metropolitan City Law, which they are subjected to. On one hand, by expanding the responsibilities of municipalities in the name of local strengthening -- but the quality and quantity of services for those living there are falling -- by increasing the powers of the central administration on the other side, without questioning the public's demands, without knowing the local needs, with coercionist understanding of all powers. It's an incredible contradiction. The 10th article of the budget proposal in 2019 and the next bag of legislation have increased the President's authority over local governments. The question should be asked: How will the understanding confessing to betraying Istanbul guarantee that it will not betray other cities by its powers? Even if he can guarantee that he won't betray other cities with the powers he's gathered, what's the end of this story? I'll tell you what's going to happen: the runt cake you're going to share with the authorities will be taken away by the concrete barons, and the bill will be paid by our people. Congressmans, the painting is as clear as black and white. Look, there are 10 municipalities here in the Human Development Index... which are run by the presidents of the Republican People's Party. We are proud of our Republican People's Party mayors. (HPP) So, can we see the AKP municipalities in this picture? Can the AKP's mayors, who have full power sources, be included in this picture?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0349par0115	We never see it, we don't know what it is. It can't be read, it can't be read.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0348par0116	Sadly, no, but this is another picture of AKP mayors succeeding -- the AKP municipalities who ranked in the first 10 provinces in the debt rankings are also very beautiful, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0349par0117	On March 31st, we'll see success, failure.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0348par0118	Local governments, which have to meet their needs with a limited budget, are able to accomplish difficult tasks, but with a vision and a mission that is unintelligible from a holistic, rantistic view. I know closely how this was accomplished in Eskişehir, with limited budgets and resources, as a member of this team in municipalities for 19 years. Members of parliament, Eskişehir, an old city, named after its civilizations in the past, has become a leading city of urban tourism, an example for all Turkey in recent years. As an exemplary city for Turkey, municipalities from different political parties visit Eskişehir, and receive briefings from our municipalities. The inhabitants of the city are proud to live in Eskişehir, and to be from Eskişehir. The 12th most reliable cities in the world and the only municipality in Turkey are the people of my city who walk safely and happily on the streets of Eskişehir. (HPP) Today, London, New York, Barcelona, Istanbul, Antalya, Bursa -- including AKP municipalities, I draw your attention to the 193 municipalities -- are proud to be in the finals in the urban transformation competition. Yes, that was accomplished in Eskişehir, because our mayors in Eskişehir have not betrayed the city. The rate of success has been shared by all the inhabitants of the city. Dear lawmakers, I would like to announce to our municipalities that the days are near when we will see AKP rant and looting mentality collapse on its knees like a black cloud. In our country, where 50 square feet of green land should fall per person, 8 square metres of land, your gardens of people who are no more than confession will not be able to save you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I have an extension, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0350par0123	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0348par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. You will not be able to breathe among the concrete piles, to poison your body by poisoning it with thermal power plants, and to save you from the enormous city hospitals you planted to treat our citizens, whose health you have corrupted by poverty, separation, mental health. Yeah, you're going as fast as you came, and you're taking your crazy projects with you. You've come with municipal elections, you're going with municipal elections. You're going because you've divided their income not by rights, but by rants. You're leaving because you've created a happy minority, an unhappy majority. You're leaving because you've supposedly evacuated villages where you've established neighborhood status by some freaky law, but you can't urbanize the people you've put in cities. In short, you're going because you betrayed our cities. Well, Godspeed. I salute the General Assembly with respect and love. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0351par0130	Thank you. Dear friends, we have many guests today. Members of parliament, the Co-Chairs of the Turkish-European Union's Karma Parliamentary Commission, Mr. Manolis Kefalogiannis and Mr. Ismail Emrah Karayel, and members of the Commission, visit our General Assembly. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] Now, on behalf of him, Aydın MP Metin Yavuz. Here you go, Mr. Yavuz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0352par0145	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the budget of 2019. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation watching us on television screens. With the EC PARTI power, the development of the infrastructure of villages was launched in 2005. During the time of our governments, there were no villages without roads or drinking water, with the KYODES project. Along with the presidential government system, the General Directorate of Mahalli Administrations within the Interior Ministry has been removed and the Department of Environment and Urbanisation has been established by the Department of Local Administration. In this way, more efficient work will be done at the point of improving the quality of services, improving service standards and guiding local governments. A total of 12 billion, 232 million, 508,000 euros were used as part of the project from 2005 to 18 years ago. The allowance for 2018 is 1.5 billion TL. 4,729 of our villages, which have no drinking water, have been built into a networked drinking water plant, and in our village of 58,279, drinking water facilities have been renovated. In total, 17 million 441,703 of our citizens were taken to 63,024 villages, which were built to build a drinking water plant and renovated existing facilities. In addition, 17 ponds, 762 irrigation facilities and 19 animal drinking water ponds were completed and served as watering services for 69,924 hectares of agricultural land, which provided the use of 79,488 farmers' families. 372 septic and decontamination facilities for waste water have been completed, and 531 units have been served, and 307,869 of our citizens have been provided with these services. We care even more about efforts to contribute to local government services. One of these studies is the E-People Project. It will help develop service models that will enable municipalities to carry out their increasing tasks and will provide many services to their citizens through the e-state door. By fully implementing the system, at least $3 billion will be saved. In 2019, taxes were divided into local governments and funds for $114.3 billion. Under support of growth, transfers to activities and projects focused on promoting exports, tourism and other productive sectors and reducing regional development differences will continue. The GDP rate for GDP transfers is estimated to be 0.2 points reduced by 0.2 per cent in 2019, according to the forecast for 2018. In this regard, 1.5 billion dollars were earmarked for SDUAP, 800 million for SODES, 166 million for development agencies, and $322 million for development agencies. In order to meet the needs of local governments, the Bank of Provinces again met with an investment bank property that finances drinking water networks and treatments, sewers, wastewater treatment, deep sea discharges, solid waste, maps, development plans, city information systems and exponential projects. Provinces Bank Asş serves 1,398 municipalities, 51 district private administrations, 2 district private administrations, 30 major cities water and sewage administrations, totalling 1,481 local government units. In the last 15 years, a total of 46 billion dollars has been earmarked from the Bank of Provinces' own resources for all projects, maps, construction, and materials they need. From 2003 to today, all municipalities and state's private administrations amounted to $260 billion in tax revenues totalled to the remaining $228 billion in related municipalities and state private administrations after their debts were dropped. As part of the SDUAP, 8 billion 752 million euros were transferred by the County Bank for 1,289 jobs from the beginning of the project to today. Local governments were granted about $5 billion in grants, including SDUPAP, from 2003 to 18 years ago. In this framework, the World Bank, the International Co-operation Agency for Japan, the European Investment Bank and the Bank for Islamic Development have been used to use about 558m euros in loans worth a total of 1 billion 504m euros so far and continue to work with local governments for the use of the remaining part. In determining capital transfers, the support of SODES, SODES, SUKAP and AR-GE projects was envisioned during the mid-term fiscal plan period, and austerity measures have been taken into consideration.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0353par0158	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0352par0159	As we protect the environment, we will continue to work with the improvement of the investment environment, social hardware and green areas, the foundation of horizontal architecture, to create habitable, healthy and safe cities. As I hereby end my words, I wish our budget of 2019 to the good of our country, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0353par0162	Now, friends, on behalf of Istanbul MP İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu. Here you go, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0354par0165	Mr. President, the Court, the MPs, the 10th article is a matter for local governments. Let me point out right away: in this regard, the presidency is number 1. The ruling of lu constitutes a violation of Article 127, because this is the 1st, even though it is in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. lu was transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism with the CBK. In this regard, I have to start by identifying this anomaly. Of course, budgetary rights is far beyond guaranteeing the rights of taxpayers. As a matter of fact, when we look at the founding of the United States of America, we see that there is a fundamental tax problem. In 1763, the London Parliament adopted a law for British colonies to pay taxes on the eastern shores of the United States. The colonies objected to taxes on the grounds that they were not represented in Parliament. In 1768, the Council of Colonies claimed that property was a natural constitutional right, and that the non-law tax obligation damaged that right. At that time, it became a common word for condemning unconstitutional measures taken in London. However, the London Parliament insisted on its position. A convention, which brought together 13 colonial representatives, was then declared a declaration of independence on 4 July 1776, confirming the way the people ruled. After the victory over England, the 13 states adopted the constitution that established the republican federal United States in 1787. Here's historical information that shows how important taxes and budgets are. Of course, this is no stranger to us because there is such a relationship with the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. As a matter of fact, the state of Turkey was born with Parliament and established through the Constitution. The separation between the Turkish Parliament and the Parliament, which was blessed in 1921, is clear. In 1921, the government was coming out of the Grand National Assembly and was named after the Government of the Grand National Assembly, and in 2018, the ministers did not leave the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, nor were they responsible to the Parliament. Their only responsibility is criminal responsibility, which can only be provided with 400 MPs. In contrast, the majority of members of parliament -- the EC PARTY and the MHP -- feel the need to confirm their commitment to the party's president at all times. Now, when we look at this budget in this framework, we can clearly see that we're actually dealing with a discrepancy: Congressmans are usually starting with the presidential government system, both parties are doing it, but there's no such concept in our Constitution. Our constitution begins with a democratic law state based on human rights; it is the framework. As a matter of fact, when we swore an oath, we swore no oath to the government; we swore an oath to the Constitution, to the Constitution. Now, if I were to return to the position of the talks that we've had here -- as I've just stated -- again, in the budget talks, for example, there is no conflict with Article 127. In a way, the budget will go as it came from, but in fact, the law is known where it comes from, it's not from the House. However, the Constitution has been decreed that law proposals will be prepared by Parliament. Now, a very important point here is that the law number 6771 was basically represented and voted for in the name of the separation of men, but by this practice -- to use a gentler expression -- was made to act as a methodical body. In fact, we can see it from the AK PARTY, even when the AK PARTY MPs themselves were speakers... yesterday morning, for example, they were the first speakers, about 20 people, they were already speakers, most of them, but only the ministers came when they were going to talk. However, they are the MPs of this House, who come with the election and represent the country, representing the voter, or they are not the MPs representing the government or the ministers.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0355par0173	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0354par0174	I think that's where the fundamental problem comes from, because according to our Constitution -- law, execution, judgment -- this place rules, executes, and judges. The picture that we're witnessing here, especially in the production of the law and the budgeting process, appears to be the assembly of this Parliament's executive body, the parliament representing it, even a parliament that is obliged to serve in accordance with one person's expectations. I'm not talking about any intentions, I've been watching them carefully for 12 days and there's a painting like this. So rather than the House's own autonomy, the House is divided into two parts, and I'm acting on behalf of the people. The other is trying to say, "No, we are here for the execution." They're trying to give it with their image, their speech, their vote, their attitude, their applause. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll just give me one more minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0355par0177	Teacher, I didn't give it to anyone, really.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0354par0178	You just gave it to a deputy.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0355par0179	There was a glitch in the system, a problem in the beginning.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0354par0180	I've already got a deal because Mr. Akbasoglu needs an answer, it's been discussed a lot.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0355par0181	Okay, fine. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0354par0183	I'm not discussing Law 6771 here; it's just that, as I said, the concept of the Presidential government system is not a constitutional concept. I'm talking about the violation of Law 6771, and since it's in effect, I'm talking about the breach. The other thing, Mr. Akbasoglu, I'm reading the definition of dictatorship from the Encyclopedia of Constitutional Law: ▪Dicteurism is a government style called the concentration of power in one person or minority group. I'm not going into the details of this. This is the common definition of the Constitutional Law Encyclopedia. In this regard, the problem with us is that political clients' pathways are becoming increasingly closed. After that, the European Court has asked our government for an opinion on the construction of Ashliye. He has given our government until January 31st on October 1st. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] According to our government's response, we will know about the construction of Ashliya from Europe. Of course, it's a fact, even though it upsets us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0356par0190	Thank you. Dear friends, we now move on to a ten-minute question-and-answer process. Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0357par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. The minimum wage detection commission will hold its third meeting tomorrow as part of its minimum wage work, which will be valid in 2019. At the meeting, the TÜİK (TİK) is also expected to share the minimum income of one worker with the commission, but the minimum wage set for the past five years has been below $350 per month. So in 2017, the advice of TÜİK (TÜİK) was 1,669 liras, while the minimum wage was 1,404 liras, while in 2018, the minimum fee was 1,894 liras. So let's get a message out of here, and let's address the TİK officials: Tell minimum wage advice 300 lira more than that, but the advice of TİKY is already under your recommendation -- and in that sense, it's completely satisfied, at least the minimum-payers will be able to breathe a little bit more freely. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0358par0196	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0359par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Some schools in Longöpru have studies that are not even known to children in the 4-6-year-old group. These trainings, given by those determined by the diet, have been left to the order of the Dianet. Those who take part in these courses cannot be audited by the Ministry of National Education, while their parents believe that their child is educated by teachers in schools. The religious education given to these children during the period of concrete transactions, called education of values, can affect the child's psychology and cause him serious harm. The general opinion of experts is that abstract concept teaching should not be given until the age of 12. To whom or to whom does the start of religious education come so early? Do these courses and training protocols have official approval and assignment documents?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0360par0202	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0361par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Commissioner, is that our industry is the engine of our economy in terms of pioneering technological development, dragging other sectors, ensuring foreign currency input and contributing to qualified employment. To strengthen industry's power, to boost competition, to achieve its big and powerful Turkey goal, RD has a crucial role in boosting investment, production and employment. As a matter of fact, the AK PARTY has embraced the entire community by implementing it. What work is there in the budget for the R&amp;D that will provide high production value? What is being done to increase RD's share in national income? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0362par0207	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0363par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. As the EC PARTY government, we have given more responsibility to local governments, making sure that many services from the centre are offered more effectively and efficiently at its site. In the 2019 budget, we provide 93.6 billion dollars for development of local governments and more services to our major cities and other municipalities and private administrations. IN THIS budget, with the CYDES project, 35,200 villages -- the road to our villagers -- water, sewers, septic, treatment facility, children's park, village square arrangements, sports facilities -- have been prepared to provide the same services and the same quality in the village. With the SDUAP project, this budget has been prepared to provide services to our 1,397 municipalities, the cities, such as water canals, treatment facilities. So this budget is prepared for the welfare and happiness of 82 million. Mr. President, is it possible to impose a precautionary measure on the financial aid of the authorities under this clause?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0364par0214	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0365par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Until recently, Hasan Tahsin was known as the first bullet in our national struggle against the Greeks by the bird that Hasan Tahsin threw at the Greeks during the invasion of İzmir, but the General Staff experts had conducted necessary examinations in the ATASE Presidency archive and found that after the First World War, the first occupied states in our home were Alexander and Four roads, and that the first armed resistance movement was thrown into the village of Karakese by our courageous son Mehmet Karakese on December 19, 1918. Today, happy 100th anniversary of the first bullet of our Liberation War against imperialist invaders and domestic collaborators. Sergeant Mehmet, Kara Hasan Pasha, and the Battle of Salvation...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0366par0219	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0367par0220	I'm asking the Treasury and Finance Minister. During your rule, the economy fell into crisis, the Turkish money lost close to 50 per cent, the investments stopped, the production stopped, the factories stopped, unemployment reached 11.4 per cent, unemployment increased to 30 per cent, the youth unemployment reached 30 per cent, the unrequited check amount of 25 billion Turkish dollars, our business can't afford it, the farmer can't afford it, the farmer can't afford it, the farmer can't afford it, the farmers can't afford it, the farmers can't afford it, the farmers can't afford it, they've got more expensive where they're going to cheap, the money of fertilizer, the drugs and the seed has increased by 100 per cent, the price has increased by 100 per cent. Our foreign relations with our neighbors have been completely corrupted, the central bank's independence has been damaged, its monetary policy has been interfered with, and Turkey's peace and reputation in the world has been undermined. What measures do you intend to take as the Ministry to correct this economy that was in crisis at a time when everything broke down in our country that was so negative? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0368par0223	Mr. Rootsal, the last...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0369par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there are mothers waiting for a pre-insurance birth debt. First of all, it is against the Constitution's principle of equality that the right to a man's right to a man's right to a man's right to a woman's right to a child's debt is subject to the start of insurance before birth. It would be an important achievement in our republic's history to receive the right to give birth to women on the day of her first birth, without condition. We've got some law proposals for that. I'm speaking to lawmakers who are particularly members of the 1st party in the Turkish Parliament: Come, let us make the faces of mothers who are expecting a pre-insurance loan during this legislative period, and let us pass this arrangement through the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0370par0227	We're starting the answers. Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0371par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to tell you the arrangements we've made with the 10th article. The (1)th joke (a) was set in order to pay the rights to the rights of the members of the province's private administration as a result of the removal of Law No. 5286 and the General Directorate of Village Services. (b) The project for Support of the Villages' Infrastructure Project (KODES) includes support of the infrastructure of villages without roads or water, (c) the use of funds in the Treasury and Finance Ministry budget (SUKAP) under the Water, Sewerage and Infrastructure Project (SUAP) for the support of drinking water and wastewater projects by the Provinces Bank Anonim Corporation. If there is a need under SDUAP, an arrangement is made to transfer funds to the relevant public administration budget or to the private budgetary management budget under the general budget. In addition, it is agreed that the assistance to the relevant administrations cannot and cannot be seized to ensure that they are used in accordance with the purpose of the grant. The (2)th joke states that procedures and fundamentals for payment (a) according to payment are being organised, and the (3)th joke states that the distribution of payments included in the (1)th joke (b) and (c) benchmarks will be decided by the President. Mr. Extortion had a question, which was an RD question. When we look at all the budgets and applications, it turns out that both tax and non-tax support are being provided, and as a result of this, the indirect R&D support, which was 198 million in 2008, has reached 2.8 billion dollars in 2017. That amount does not include direct support. As a result, the number of R&D centers, 16 in 2018, reached 987, as of September 2018. The rate of R&D expenditures in the GDP is not enough, but it is also important that in the past 16 years it has increased from 0.5 per cent to 1 per cent. But is it enough? It's not enough. In this scope, companies who want to conduct RD innovation and design activities within themselves are provided with the AR-Ge and Design Center Document. Companies with this document are provided with opportunities such as tax reductions, insurance premiums and income tax blockbacks, stamp and customs tax exceptions, employment support for graduates of basic sciences. In this framework, the number of R&D centers operating within the year 2018 has reached 1,038, the number of R&D personnel working, and the number of projects that have ended has reached 21,000, and the number of projects being carried out has reached 12,000. Mr. President, thank you very much. There's a lot of reform going on in this other process, but I'm not going to go into them. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0372par0238	Thank you. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0371par0240	I extended my time; there were three minutes left, and then you went up to five.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0372par0241	Who did?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0371par0242	You did it automatically, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0372par0243	Well, let's finish it. Mr. Hawk, come again.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0373par0245	The Ministry of Health established a Public Health institution within the organization's structure and was first appointed an anesthesiologist. The lack of seriousness of the AKP government's appointment meant giving the eye doctor heart surgery, and in the end, this non-clinical anesthesiologist served until November 2018. Still, the GPs are appointed politically as contract personnel. Near all of Turkey, the heads of the institution are appointed politically. There are very few or very few presidents who are public health specialists. It's not the government's intention to take on Liyakat. The Presidents of Public Health Services are primarily concerned with the health of the entire population, especially inoculations, family planning, providing healthy water, improving health. This area cannot be left open, commercialized, and never politicalized. The presidents of the agency are still under contract. Family physicians and People's Health presidents cannot be employed under contract. Family physicians and the heads of Public Health must be recruited immediately.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0372par0246	Mr. Çulhaoğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0374par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Trade Pekcan has announced that the number of companies declaring concordato in Turkey is 846. Companies, which are suppliers of these companies who declare Concordato, gave their checks to other companies where they were doing business. Now, if the checks are not paid, the suppliers are being repossessed. Do you intend to bring protective judgment on suppliers?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0372par0249	Dear friends, negotiations on Article 10 have been completed. I submit the item to your votes...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0375par0251	Mr. President, I was in the 10th place, but you got another speaker.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0372par0252	Guys, we're based on the first entry into the system. The system's shut down, there's re-entry due to the malfunction, but according to the first entry, I made a commitment based on the list we have.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0375par0253	It was me after that.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0372par0254	I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0375par0255	Would you please look at the list you have?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit03spe0372par0256	Of course. You'll take care of it. Those who do not accept... Article 10 is accepted. Dear friends, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0372par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of Turkey's 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019. The commission is in place. I'll make a promise to Mr. Yavuzylmaz, before I enter the 11th article. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0376par0008	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are paid $4,312 for the relatives of our soldiers who were killed in the conflict with the terrorist organization while serving, and $2,312 for the privates who died on the same occasion; £4,312 for a martyr, £2000 for a martyr. This separation after our martyrs must be terminated immediately. Therefore, these sacrifices to the relatives of our fallen soldiers must be removed immediately, under the 21st Amendment of Law 3713. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's settle this inequality together with a proposal of law. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0377par0011	Thank you. Now I'm going to read the 11th article: MADDE 11- (1) The Defense Industry Support Fund, established by Law 7/11/1938 and established under the strategic target plan by the Turkish Armed Forces, provided that the funds and other similar and transplantable resources are provided by the Defence Industry Executive Committee, as well as the funds set up for this purpose, along with the necessary modern weapons, tools and equipment, and investments in NATO infrastructure. (2) The amount of the funds from the current budgetary funds to the Ministry of National Defence, General Command and Coast Guard Command, to be determined according to the first joke provisions provided to the Security Directorate; from the current funds assigned to the Security Directorate by budget to the current funds, armored vehicles, aircraft and helicopters, drones (IHA), flight simulator, Electronic Harp (HEWS) and City Security Management Systems (KGYS) project; from the current funds for budgets for information and security; from the current funds assigned to the Security Directorate; from the current funds to Turkey's Hudut and Coastal Health General Directorate; from these budgets, through the budgets of the budget, through the budgets of the budget, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the Ministry of Security and Security Management; from the Commission, through the Commission, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget of the budget of the Ministry of Security and through the budget, through the budgets and through the budgets of the budget, through the budget of the budget of the Ministry of the Commission, through the budget, through the Commission, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the Commission, through the budgets and through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budgets and through the European of the Ministry of the European of the European of the Ministry of the European of the European of the European of the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the European of Security, through the European of the European of the European of Security, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the European of Security, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the budget, through the budget, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the budget, through the Commission, through the European of the European of the Commission, through the European of the Commission, through the Commission, through the Commission, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the budget, through the European (3) The amount from the Defence Industry Support Fund to the Treasury comes to the general budget, while the President is authorized to register funds for the relevant arrangements of the National Ministry of Defence budget and to transfer funds for the past years. In accordance with budget laws, the years concerned are placed into the central accounting unit of the general budgetary administration of the Defence Industry Support Fund, and the appropriate budgetary administration (B) is registered into the accounting department's account bookkeeping unit. In general budgetary administrations, he is the president of the budgetary budget, and in private budgetary administrations, he is the head of the private budgetary administration. The annual investment programme links the grant register to administrations outside the National Ministry of Defence, the Gendarme General Command and the Coast Guard Command. Arslan Kabukcuoğlu, Eskişehir MP will now speak on behalf of the PARTI Group on Article 11. Here you go, Mr. Shellguy. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. Kabukcuoğlu has a ten-minute speech on behalf of the group and a five-minute speech on behalf of the group; we're putting it together. That'll be 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0378par0027	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group regarding Article 11 of the Defense Industry Support Fund under the heading of the Central Management Budget Act of 2019. I salute the High Council and the Turkish nation. Our defence industry is based on the rise of the Ottoman Empire. At this time, the most important tools and tools of the age, such as cannons and warships, were made entirely by domestic means. After 1974, the importance of the local defence industry was re-remembered, and our geopolitical position continued with this importance. Today, the Defence Industry Support Fund provides the needs needed by Turkish Armed Forces and Gendarme and other NGOs to bring the Coast Guard Commands to their strategies. The Defence Industry Presidency is ranked among the most important institutions of our country next year with the volume of a $60 billion defence project. Honourable MPs, the 1648 Treaty of Vestphalia and the borders of the countries began to be defined by its peoples and executive staff. To maintain these values, the country's security has developed. In the changing period and in the future, the definitions of "security" and "enemy" are also changing. We can simply classify the concept of security as economic security, health safety, environmental security, individual security, safety of groups and political security. These are concepts that are intertwined. Our agenda is their connection to the security forces. These concepts have become so shifty that sometimes the concept of security can be a source of insecurity. The Defence Industry Support Fund is authorized to pay for the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, Ministry of Industry and Technology, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. The management of such a common, seven ministries, a complex and comprehensive fund includes significant problems. The Court has declared that the non-secret parts of the funds are not being examined because they are not given information or documents, although they acknowledge the secrecy of their financial actions. Buying and renting vehicles that are not in accordance with legislation by the Defence Industry Fund Administration, fuel supply, real estate rentals are some irregularities that the Court has detected in its report, as far as it can be studied. The development of our defence power from domestic products and the development of proper military and weapons technologies in today's conditions are appropriate. But our sensitivity in this matter is to tell the public the truth, not to tell the truth as if it had been done. The problems of motor licenses, such as ATAK helicopters, which the government has referred to as local and national products, raise suspicion that the government is not telling the truth. Eskişehir has been an important center of aviation and space. The fighting Air Force and Air Missile Defense Command were stationed in Eskişehir. There are three small-scale space and aerospace companies, especially with the participation of the International General Electric company, and important companies that develop software for the defence industry, including drones and missile guidance systems. The TEI company produces 32 critical parts for airbus and Boeing 737 aircraft engines, producing and selling parts to more than 40 of the world's jet engines. Boeing is the largest supplier of 747 and 787 Genx engines in the world. The power module manufacturer for the ATAK engine is a partner and engine manufacturer for the Turkish General Maksat Helipad Programme. F16 engine, editing, testing and delivery. It maintains AWACS aircraft. With the use of 93 per cent capacity and 30 per cent of the side industry, TEI developed and produced 6 original engine designs in five years. Among other aviation companies, the production of most of the F35 landing gear, the production of critical parts of the F35 aircraft engine compressors, the production of dynamic parts and landing gears of helicopters that will be used in the ground forces, forest businesses, police, health services. In this case, Eskişehir is a candidate for Turkey's space and aviation base. Congressmans, if you think that we flew our first native aircraft in 1936, why don't we have a domestic car brand today? If you consider that we regret it, the space and aerospace industry in the heart of Anatolia will bear fruit. What needs to be done is to maintain this industry by supporting it. The potential of the Eskişehir, the capacity of space and aviation industry, its infrastructure, its social structure, its manpower capacity, is a good opportunity for tomorrow's developed Turkey to be within easy reach of our country. Mr. President, I'm going to speak against Article 11 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. The Alpu Plain, 34km away from Eskişehir, is planned to build an underground mining and ash storage facility in the reserve area that will provide coal for this plant. The project issue is divided into 1,787 hectares of reserves for the coal mine, 892 hectares of energy production, 273 hectares of ash storage spaces. 8 million tons of coal per year will be produced for use at the plant, which is planned for each megawatt of 2 units. At the end of the operation, there will be 2 million 163,000 tonnes of ash per year and 637 million caststone wastes. The bird flight is scheduled to bring 1,900 cubic metres of water per hour from the Gökçekaya Dam, 2km away. The labor force is 2,200 people in three shifts. The average thermal value of coal is 2.107 kilocalori per kilogram. The plant, which will operate for 35 years, is estimated to use 275 million tonnes of coal. According to some studies, the thermal plant project is at risk: Since the CED report for the construction of the facility was not prepared for scientific requirements, the project did not consider earthquakes, floods, and landslide risks that should be assessed. The Alpu Plain is a valuable agricultural basin in which the site is accepted. There are villages 350-400 metres away from the facilities, where people who live in those villages earn their living from agriculture. The pollution the plant will give to the soil and the air will make the region uncultivable. The size of the atmosphere the thermal plant will create is unknown. It is evident that there is a serious danger to human health. Because of the coals from underground, the sinkholes will form. The collapses in the soil, other than soil contamination, will make agriculture impossible. The site designated as an ash storage area is the area of lule stones, a rare natural resource worldwide. The storage of ash waste in this area will lead to the disappearance of the lule stone. This facility, which has 35 years of life, will cause massive ash deposits. The destruction of the ash is in no way possible. Eskişehir is one of the cleanest cities in our country. A large area will be sacrificed to this project, starting with the Inönun. This project, which will destroy human health, country's land, water, and natural wealth, must be abandoned. The budget of 2019 will bring development, prosperity, peace to our country, and my compliments to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0379par0041	Thank you. Now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Gaziantep MP Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan. Here you go, Mr. Stoneborn. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0380par0046	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute your grand delegation and the mighty Turkish nation. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions on Article 11 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. In general, this article organises funding transactions associated with funds, and specifically the allocation of funds to the Defence Industry Support Fund, and for what purposes to use these resources. In this scope, the Turkish Armed Forces are earmarked for spending year-on-year on the purchase of weapons and other tools and equipment to the General Command of the Gendarme and Coast Guard Command and NATO investments. In this regard, it is vital for our country to invest in the production of weapons and military equipment by local entrepreneurs. Our country is currently able to produce its own infantry rifle, drones, training aircraft, helicopters, warships, armored vehicles, SIHAs, rocket and missile systems. Our defence industries, such as ASELSAN, AVELSAN and ROKETSAN, are growing and increasing export opportunities over the years. These developments are a source of pride for everyone in our country. Although there has been progress in defence and aviation exports over the years, export numbers have yet to reach a satisfactory level. As of 2017, 553 defence industries were under way, while the contracts amounted to 41 billion $425 million. The amount is estimated to be around $60 billion when we add the completed contracts to current projects. It shows an extraordinary growth potential. In ongoing projects, domestic contribution is estimated at 60 per cent or 65 per cent. In developed countries, however, it is about 80 percent or 85 percent. In our country facing a constant exchange deficit problem, the domestic contribution in production must be kept as high as possible. The strengthening of our national defence system through projects in such a period faced by the Beka threat is one of our country's undisputed national goals. As the National Movement Party, it should be known that it is a national goal to support domestic and national production with these projects at all costs. It should be known that the basic requirement for the sustainability and efficiency of defence spending is the creation of a supply chain to ensure that the needs are met by companies within the country, and the raising of the side-industrial share within the total turnover. The majority of companies operating in Turkey's defence industry are concentrated in Istanbul, Kopeeli and Ankara. The lack of Gaziantep is a serious flaw in both our city and our country. With an increase in defence industry spending, there are opportunities and necessary infrastructure in Gaziantep that allow the needs of main contractors to be provided from abroad. There should be no doubt that Gaziantep's industry will stamp domestic production on the defence industry once it is enabled by a large production portfolio. Gaziantep's industrial infrastructure and Gaziantep's intelligence are big enough to produce them. The history of the Gaziantep is full of true stories of people who make the impossible happen. When it comes to manufacturing and the issue of national defense, it is not to pass without telling about the Musketeer Joseph. Master Yusuf, the rifleman, worked at the Oliveburn Gun Factory in Çanakkale prior to his arrival, and thus serves in the arms department of the Manufacturing Factory of Antwerp. For the French to have 300 machine guns turned into Antwerp, the Antwerpes only have mavzers. There are also four Lewis machine guns left of the British during the war. But since we don't have the bullets for this weapon, these rifles can't be used. Joseph, the rifleman, will go to the Committee Center, and give me these rifles, and I will make them the use of Ottoman bullets." he says. They will not believe in him, and they will say, "This is the government's property," and they will turn down the Musketeer, Joseph. The sergeant's friend kidnaps one of the machine guns and brings them to Yusuf the Musketeer, "The machine gun is badly needed, so take care of it." he says. The rifleman Yusuf puts the barrel of an old gun on Lewis and welds it. The English Lewis, built by Master Yusuf, begins to light Ottoman bullets. This time, Yusef goes to Master Yusef and entrusts Lewis with three others. The British have four Lewis machine guns that will throw up death to the French until the end of the Antwerp defense, and these rifles will be called "The Lightning Joseph. I told you, it's full of true stories of people who make it impossible to defend antep. The sad part of the story of Joseph the Gunmaker of Gaziantep is that I will not be able to tell it here out of respect for his blessed memories. Even in absence, I tried to explain what the Gaziantepian could do with his invention. In our Gazi city of industry, any production is made in the most perfect way. Composite materials, electronic circuits, automation, metal materials, textiles, technical textiles and spare parts include export capacity and RD power in many areas. Gaziantep is Turkey's 6th largest exporter province. Gaziantep is a dynamic city that exports to 172 countries with 1,270 exporters. The Gaziantep Organised Industrial Region is the largest organised industrial region in Turkey, with the number of jobs and the electricity it consumes. Gaziantep is also ranked at the most in the district of Gaziantep, which applied for 2.523 and applied for the most brands and patents, and also at the most in the municipal ranking of 1.910 applications for industrial design. With its current dynamic structure, Gaziantep has completed its fifth organised industry, and is ready to establish its 6th organised industry as a state-of-the-art and defence industry. The intersection of the Gaziantep industry and the defence industry is a new window of opportunity. Such a beginning will contribute greatly to our Gaziantep, the Southeast Anatolian region and our country. Believe me, we do that, especially when it comes to the defense industry, there's nothing the Gaziantep can't do. Let the unbeliever go online now, and let them watch carefully as TRT has made a documentary, master of the masters Mennan Usta., the late Mennan Aksoy, and his business partner, Mr. Cahit Özcelik. Let them see what Master Mennan of Gaziantep can do today, as the Musketeer Joseph did in history. On the one hand, the spending planned to be extraordinary, the fact that external dependence on planned projects has not been reduced enough, and despite all of that, security problems on our global scale in our region should not be compromised by defence spending. Although the funds are contrary to classical budget principles, we would like to say that given the purpose of the Defence Industry Support Fund, this fund should be supported in every way and that the resources transferred to the fund would be very little, no matter how much they increase. The conjonk we're in makes these expenses necessary and mandatory. We all know that the more powerful he is in the Turkish Armed Forces region and on the global scale, the more he will contribute to world peace and humanity. How could I not kiss the Gaziantep's eyes? They saved not only Gaziantep, but all Turkey." Ataturk kissed the Gaziantep people in the eyes. If they were alive, we'd kiss their inventions in that absence by the hands of the People of Antwerp. On December 25th, we will celebrate the 97th year of our salvation. The great men of Gaziantep, our city of Gazi, who were killed in the defenses of Ataturk and Antwerp...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0381par0064	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0380par0066	I'm ending it, Mr. President. I bow before the memory of the martyr of 6,317 and of all our martyrs, the name of St. Ataturk, and the Veteran Assembly of Antwerp.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0381par0069	Thank you. Now on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Ağrı MP Abdullah Koç. Here you go, Mr. Coach. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0382par0074	Mr. President, it's been 40 years since the bloody Maras massacre before the honorable MPs took a stand on behalf of my group. As there are no real responsible ones, these responsible ones still inflict violence on the country on violence. I condemn the massacres of these people in Maraş, in Çorum, in Sivas, in Roboski, and in every corner of our geography. I share the pain of our people who have lost their lives because of these crimes of humanity, and I bow before their memories with respect. I also honor the 28 revolutionaries who were murdered in prison on December 19, 2000, today's anniversary. Dear lawmakers, I find it helpful to remind you that the budget that is being discussed here today is not just numbers. The method itself, from the beginning of the budget process to the process of bringing the General Assembly, is also a right proportional situation with the form of antidemocratic governance of power over 80 million, so if we want to understand the basic understanding of power, the interpretation of the budget process will be sufficient. Therefore, it would be appropriate not only to discuss the figures here today, but also to discuss the government's economic policy, the isolation policy, the Rojova policy, and to expose this policy. Yes, as our party has repeatedly stressed, considering the social reality of millions, I would like to point out here that the law that has not been done prioritizing this reality is not the law, but rather, the direction of a group, a single political party. Dear lawmakers, I would like to present to you that a law is antidemocratic and not legitimate in the event it's been broken from the public in the process of building, even though it's been removed from the public. It is not justice, but chaos and injustice that is imposed on the people by power as it stands in its present form. In short, because the budget itself is not democratic, it is not a fair, equitable budget, and it certainly isn't. Transparency, righteousness, justice first begins where you think it runs the country. Look, there are millions of laws coming out of this place every day, every week and every month, and while the Legislature is passing these laws, it's not taking any notice of the public, it's not getting any opinion from the NGOs. Our fellow legalists know that not knowing the law is no excuse. The principle is that despite such laws imposed on the people, the people have no knowledge of these laws, and there is no way that they can be. So in our opinion, it's not moral, it's not legal to hold the people accountable for the laws you've brought. Look at this budget process, my dear friends. You sent a truckload of budget manuals to our MPs' rooms. I'd like to ask you, dear friends, who has read these books, the books you've printed on these pages. Look, I know very clearly that you didn't even turn over the page. This is just one, volume 10 and a truckload of these pamphlets were sent to everyone's rooms separately. And what does that mean? Dear friends, this is a jungle massacre, a laborer working day and night all by himself. Dear friends, what does that mean? This means that 599 MPs in parliament are constantly working overtime here for more than a month. What does that mean? This means spending the bread, water, and care of the people whom you have experienced poverty, which means that it is it. So, with all the books, all the overtime, all the work you've done, have you had any effect on this budget process? Guys, the effect is zero, we can't even change a comma. I'm speaking to my people, and I'm speaking to the people of 80 million people: look, if we don't insult this Parliament, we're playing theater here, we're doing theater. Look, we've been working overtime here for over a month, and we haven't moved an ounce in this budget, not even a comma. In the name of the people, despite the public, we haven't made any progress here. And what does that mean? That's self-abuse, dear friends. Let me ask you something. A lot of friends have seen it on the news for two days. How much of this budget concerns the public? Friends, this budget is of no concern to the public, I'm afraid it's not. I'll give you an example. Friends, in Afyon, a mother wanted to warm herself up in a plastic shed, and there was a fire. This mother died in that fire, she died, she died, she died. So, how much did you give that mother of yours in the budget? Dear friends, zero. So, because of this budget, because of your savings, when are you going to get out of this people's misery? In what process are you going to answer for this? This mother has lost her life, she's gone. He lived with his poor, poor son. He burned to death until he brought in a submersible shed and put it in. Well, isn't there a flaw in that, as a result of your savings? That's what I'd like to ask you, dear friends. Look, there was another train accident in Ankara a few days ago. After the train crash happened, this hero immediately came into play -- in the nail -- independent, neutral justice came into play, troubled three workers, and took three workers, and threw them in prison. That's how he got justice, isn't it? Friends, the scissor -- his name is Osman, he's in prison right now -- says: I've come from Samsun on temporary duty. I didn't know how to change the scissors. So I asked my manager, and the manager told me, "It's okay, we'll figure it out." And then I went back, and when I changed these scissors, there was an accident, and he was in charge. Dear friends, I ask you, has the general manager, the director, the Minister, been questioned or questioned by anyone? It wasn't done. This hero is an independent -- within the nail -- the power of the judgment is only for the weak, the poor people, the laborer. Not to the strong, my friends, not to the strong. As of today, this Transport Minister should have resigned. Dear friends, look, I'm going to show you something like a joke. I've made a motion to ask about the rail system in my constituency, Ağrı. The accident occurred at 13/12/2018, and I got an answer a day ago. Look at the answer, a scandal, says: "We are the eighth place in the world, we are the sixth place in Europe. The train speeds, line capacity, and capacity will thus increase the transport of passengers and cargo, making it more comfortable, safer, and faster, increasing its share in transport, and serving 77 percent of the population in 2023. So, how are you going to carry the 77 percent population, and how are you going to ensure their safety, dear friends? Isn't this guy supposed to quit? Only the scissor, the dispatcher and the controller will serve this sentence in prison? We don't accept that. This is an injustice on its own, dear friends. Everyone has a responsibility here. Come, let's have a closed session and investigate the train accidents in this closed session as well. But let's look into one more thing, dear friends -- I'm a lawyer, and I'm ashamed of this issue -- and let's find out that this judgment is so far underground, so far underfoot, that this judgment is independent, that this judgment is neutral. Otherwise, guys, we're all gonna get caught up in this. Turkey has no law, Turkey has no justice, it has fallen below 10 per cent. We can't afford that kind of responsibility. This is what I'm calling the ruling party, all the parties, dear friends, is a very important thing. You arrested these three people, and it's not over, and it's not over. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0383par0087	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0382par0088	Dear friends, I, Minister of Interior Süleyman Nobleman, and Numan, was going to say something else about Salvation, where I was going to move to my own constituency, Ağar. But I'm running out of time, and I'm going to say it very quickly. He says: "I have seen Pain so well, I will not grieve if I die after this. While one huge production site was opened, dear friends, did Solomon see the Pain State Hospital, which only worked as a health clinic? Dear friends, did he see the detentions every day in Ağrı, and the arrests every day in Taşlıçay? Did he see any human rights violations in Patnos Prison? Dear friends, the roof where he shops under the tradesmen has fallen down, and the snow is upon him. Has he seen this about the Pain? Did he see the destruction in East Whiteıt district of Ağrı? The trustee has been destroyed, the trustee has left, and the trustee has been appointed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0384par0092	Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Onursal Adıl Adıl... Here you go, Mr. Nice Name. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0385par0096	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the central management budget of 2019. I salute the General Assembly. I'll make two points first, then I'll tell you my views on the budget. Today is December 19th, a day of shame for Turkey's democracy. December 19, 1978, the first day of the planned Maras massacre, and from here, I remember 111 of our slain lives, and I wish there were no more such massacres in Turkey. And most importantly, I strongly condemn those who condone this massacre, those who commit this massacre, and those who share in this massacre. At the same time, I am glad to remember Ali Tatar, who was subjected to great injustice and was subjected to a plot. Dear lawmakers, we've been gathering for the budget for ten days, and I've been watching, for ten days, the ruling people have been trying to defend the budget without touching the soap. People who have been working the budget for ten days and who have been running the country for sixteen years have unfortunately not offered solutions to the problems of young people in this country, women, children, minimum wagers, citizens, who are the main reason why we're here. When we look at these ten days, opposition lawmakers have repeatedly said: "Don't give the pain bill of the economic crisis to the citizens, who are trying to address the citizens' problems, who are concerned about the citizens' problems. Come together, let's make a budget of quality growth, sustainable development, a budget of rights divided, not of the support box, but of the citizen's pocket. And all opposition MPs are referring to this point, but what are you doing? You're worried about creating a lateral rant. You don't care about the women, the young, the children in this country, or the Genghis, the Genghis, the Colins, and the allies who blaspheme against the citizens. The country is in an economic crisis, with nearly 4 million unemployed friends in this country. How's the inflation coming? Please look at inflation, the citizen's salary in the face of inflation is melting, the pension, the worker's salary is melting, the dollar is $3.7 on New Year's Eve, today's $5, the citizen's back is broken. So, what does our Minister of Finance do, my friends, what does the Minister of Finance say, that he cares too much? No, our finance minister is telling a story, and he's turning around, blaming Gezil, instead of creating integrated solutions to the problem of the citizen, he's blaming Gezil. But he is unaware of one fact, the Tour in Turkey is the struggle for rights, justice and freedom for millions of people. Don't bring up travel events every time you're in a jam, there are more important problems in Turkey, friends, there are more important problems. (CHP clapping in rows) What kind of trouble is there? There are mothers who collect bread from garbage to feed their children, teachers who commit suicide because they can't be assigned. You turn away, and sleep with the Traveler, and rise up with the Traveler. Dear MPs, we've said it over and over again, and we've said that this budget is the budget of the palace, not the public budget. If you're saying this is the budget of budget labor, I'll ask you, when you start thinking about it in the election, we'll give you 3600 indicators. The election's coming up, the citizen's asking us, the officers are asking, what happened, 3600 indicators? I'm asking the Minister of National Education, you were giving good news on November 24th, what happened to 3600 indicators? Remember, you promised not only teachers, but others. I see that it's in the 100-day Plan.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0386par0104	We'll give it to the reporters.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0385par0105	I'd like to go back and ask the Minister of Youth a question again: Mr. Minister of Youth, 1 million college graduates in Turkey, young and unemployed. I don't know if you care, but a million college graduates, young, unemployed. Young people in education and out of employment are 28 percent. Is there a word the Minister of Youth says that will give the unemployed young people hope? Mr. Labour Minister, aren't you the Labour Minister of 52 workers who were killed in the construction of the airport? They were arrested for seeking the rights of third airport workers working in front of millions in the 21st century, under the conditions of the 21st century, which failed to receive their salary. Wasn't it the Labour Minister who was supposed to give them the first arm and wing? Friends, 15-year-old Efekan Arslan, Efekan Arslan, died last week under a truck in his garage, and 2 million children like Efekan are running unsecured today. Well, I'll have to ask our Minister of Labor if he cares. The farmer's in the clear. What's our Minister of Agriculture doing? Our Minister of Agriculture gives us the news of imports every day, my friends. The farmer's crops are left in the field, snow has fallen on them, he doesn't care; they're low on agriculture; he doesn't care; he doesn't care; let me encourage domestic production; he doesn't care. He turns around, and as if not enough, he says to those who ask him questions, to be useful to the hour: "Know ye yourselves! But I can't help but say that you forced Turkey, which is the granary of grain, to import wheat, and I think that shame is enough for you, for all of you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know, our Ministry of Transport has determined as a business: to create capital on the side. You know, there's a transport called the Ministry, and that's how they perceive it: to deliver capital as quickly as possible. How is that possible? It's not just today's budget, it's 30, 40 years' budget. How do they load it? Imagine a giant balloon that you all know about, you know, these mega projects, those mega projects waiting for the needle to touch, those balloons, those giant balloons. Citizen's taxes are being squandered around here, folks. Now, I know, they'll turn around and say, "What if this opposition always opposes our actions?" And we swear by God, we do not object to any of your actions which are beneficial to the people. You know what we're against? Let me tell you, we object to children burying their mothers because of your negligence. You know what we're against? You build an airport without making any feasibility just to make a contractor rich, and you charge minimum wage, pension, civil servant for a passenger who doesn't show up at the airport, and that's what we're against. And then you know what else we object to? When you sold the most radical institutions in Turkey, you sold them without looking back, you loaded the capital into the cat, and you didn't account for anything. And if that's not enough, you've brought the people who did this to the top with special promotions. And I'll tell you about TÜRK TELEKOM, which I told you about in the last budget, Mr. Secretary here -- maybe he's in a meeting, Ahmet Arlen -- there's no mortgager in the BTK budget last semester, he told me. Look at the records, they've made Turkish TELEKOM look after foreigners. The foreign and Lebanese capital did this: He defrauded and fled our banks. So, what happened? So, what happened? People of Turkey are paying the price today for Turkey's non-infrastructure investments. Mr. President, the valued MPs are now sentenced to live under the minimum wage of 1.8 million people in Turkey. 6.7 million minimum wagers are also condemned to live below the age of starvation. At one point in the palace, the government in Ankara said, "This doesn't deserve my brother, my nation, a cup of tea, a glass of bagel." I ask you from here: Do you not see that this nation deserves to live humanely? Why don't you raise the minimum wage? Or don't you want the citizens of this country to live in peace? I'm asking you. When there's a presidential budget, you raise 26 per cent immediately, no problem. We made $2,200 in our own municipalities, minimum wage. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. As of January 1st, the minimum wage in Republican People's Party municipalities is 2,200 lira. But if I push you a little bit more, you'll say that at $1,600, he lives in luxury, people.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0387par0114	We'll give it, we'll give it, we'll give it another $600.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0385par0115	Friends, with this budget, with that understanding, the future of young people in this country cannot be guaranteed. This understanding of governance does not strengthen the sectors that create value; rather the opposite, it creates low added value, so it strengthens the sectors, the concrete, the range, which you love very much.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0388par0117	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0385par0118	There's no name in this budget, there's no innovation in this budget, there's no industry in this budget. Unfortunately, in this budget, there is no solution to the problem of the citizen. This budget brings more poverty, more unemployment, more despair for 80 million. If you want to turn it down...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0389par0119	Tell me about the EZBAN, the EZBAN. Why don't you tell me what you're talking about?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0385par0120	You can come and tell him.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0389par0121	You're not paying for the city workers, they're on strike.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0385par0122	If you want to turn this around, listen to the words of the 600 MPs here, not just by the direction you received from the palace, but by the word of the nation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0390par0123	Where did you get your instructions?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0385par0124	We fear no one but God, neither do we take him from the palace. I'll tell you one last thing. We want this budget to be good for our country, but we're going to say no to the budget because there's no work in this budget, there's no workers in this budget, there's no people in this budget. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0391par0128	Dear friends, I'd like to speak for him now from Çankırı MP Salim İkintcioğlu. Here you go, Mr. İkintcioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0392par0132	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding Article 11 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby pay my respects to the High Council and our precious citizens who are listening to us on their screens. Dear lawmakers, our country is in a geography where security balances change rapidly as far as its roots date, location and location. Looking back on history in terms of technological possibilities, a scenario that we had in 1974 appears again today. After the Cypriot Peace Operation for the safety of our relatives, the arms embargo in our country has shown the importance of independence in providing our defence systems and meeting military communication requirements. As soon as we needed it most, the embargo of what we call friends and allies took place in a way that we can't forget in our social memory. The same scenario is being put on stage again today. In particular, there are difficulties in supplying the defence products needed for the safety of our southern borders, even with our money. The same allies are repeating what they did in 1974, even if they avoid saying "ambargo" in his name this time. Thankfully, today we have ASELSAN, TUSASISH, ROKETSAN, HAVELSAN, TÜBITAK-SAGE, and many other defense companies that I can't name. Our country is among countries on a regional and global level, thanks to the power of its army and the defence industry. Our defense industry has become a source of pride for our economy. In 2002 the number of exports was 250 million dollars, while today our defence industry reached the number of exports approaching $2 billion per year, reaching up to $5 billion per year. The point that came today, without a doubt, is that this success is evident. Our defence industry is at 3.7 billion dollars a year due to RD spending, Turkey's twoth most investments in RD and technology. In the past 15 years, exports of Turkish defence industry's products have increased by about eight times; it has made a big difference in Turkey's Armed Forces' first choice to use military products produced by domestic resources. Our armed forces, one of the best armies in the world, prefer a product, which is an important reference to many friends and allied countries. Our country continues to work with the goal of being fully independent in technology, especially in defence and aviation, as well as one of the best in the world. Our ATAK, Turkey's original helicopter, YAKBEY, the National Ship Project MILGAM, again our drones, and the SIHA (SIHA), our training aircraft, HURKÜRKİ and ANKA, are one of our most important defence projects, the Milli Combat Plane Project, our air defence systems, our HYSAR and SIPER, our guided missiles, KARSARGA, our sniper weapons, our BORA, our above-site targets, and our training aircraft, our ATMs, are one of the first to develop missiles, from our current defenses. Also, along with me, our Deputy Group President Muhammad Emin Akbasoglu Bey's constituency, Chankırı, was the pride of our and the pride of our Chankırı, the air defence weapon, which was produced at the Machine Chemical Industry Agency and offered to use ASELSAN. Mr. President, our defense industry is the largest flag carrier in the world. Examples of recent export activities include remote-controlled weapons systems for 14 countries, communications systems and laser guidance kits for Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), T-72 tank modernisation for Kazakhstan, targeting codes for the logistic support ship to Pakistana and fighter planes, armored vehicles for Indonesia and Qatar Yes, it's possible to extend this list much longer.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0393par0141	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0394par0142	We'd like to hear the full list, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0392par0143	I'm sure a lot of our companies will be contributing to this list shortly with their new products. I want to thank everyone here who says, "I am in the battle of technological independence for our country's safe view of tomorrow." What we do to traitors through Operation Firat Shield and Olive branch against the elements that threaten our country by our southern borders, with the means we have acquired in the defence industry, is our assurance that we will do so to the east of Fırat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute our soldiers, our police, our security forces, the proudest bench in the country, who have vowed to destroy terror within and outside the borders of our country, which they have dug to bury these evil centers, to bury them in tunnels. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a member of the state of the Republic of Turkey, we are honored by the development of our defence industry, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, thanking our ministers, our deputies, our bureaucrats, our engineers, and our employees here, with this feeling and thinking that the central management budget of 2019 should be good for our nation and our state.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0395par0151	Dear friends, negotiations on Article 11 have been completed. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. Treasure guaranteed opportunity and the loan limit of external debt and the commitment limit and the transactions related to debt MADDE 12- (1) in 2019, shall be provided according to the Law on Public Finance and Order of Debt Management No. 4749 dated 28/3/2002; the limit of guaranteed property and external debt cannot exceed 4.5 billion U.S. dollars. (2) The first joke (a) of the 1st article (a) can be exported to 3 per cent of the initial grants specified by the state's private arrangement of the state's internal debt. The Treasury and Finance Minister is authorized to determine the distribution of private state-owned debt bonds between public-owned banks and public-owned institutions, the terms of the bonds, the amount, interest and other conditions. (3) Under Article 8/A of Law No. 4749 in 2019, a commitment to the Treasury and Finance Ministry does not exceed $4.5 billion in US dollars. On behalf of the 12th article, Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin... Here you go, Mr. Sezgin. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0396par0164	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 12th Amendment of the budget law on behalf of the Good Party, but the position is quite different. However, there has just been a heated discussion about Palestine, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to clarify the extent of my knowledge. I asked Mr. Foreign Minister some questions during the Budget Commission, one of which was about Palestine. The question was, have our Palestinian, Gazan brothers and sisters improved in the last 16 years? In the context of the solution to this problem, has Turkey's position -- I mean the power of influence -- improved? Mr. Secretary has been kind enough to answer my question in writing. In response, we have been given information on the same aid, the cash benefits, the amount of wheat, the amount of millions of dollars, and the contribution of TİKA and Turkish Redness, and the value of our assistance to Palestine between 2015-2017 has reached 460 million dollars. Unfortunately, I didn't see an answer to the Palestinian situation when it was actually improved or heavy; I couldn't find an answer to the Palestinian question whether Turkey had the position or the influence. Now, my friends, in the last 16 years, there has been a huge increase in Jewish settlements in occupied lands. The number of settlers in the West Bank has increased dramatically over the past 12 years. Today, there are around 400,000 in 2002. Israel's number of settlers in East Jerusalem also increased in the last decade to around 220 thousand today. In 2014 alone, the Israeli Parliament approved 3,200 new settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. With an increase in the last 15 years, the number of Jewish settlers in the occupied land has exceeded 600,000. These numbers are general trends, of course. Some say 550,000, some say 650,000, but the fact is, in the last ten to fifteen years, that number has increased greatly. What else happened? Israel has exhausted the status of Palestinians, Arabs, and Israeli citizens, by the State Law of the Nation. Also, in this period, unfortunately hundreds of Palestinians were killed, thousands injured; the economic conditions, the living conditions of all Palestinians became very heavy. Now, I come to the decision of the UN General Assembly of December 21, 2017; this was the debate, which was adopted by 128 votes in Jerusalem. Nowhere does Jerusalem say that it is the capital of Palestine. I have the text right here. The text voted for countries of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, many countries of the European Union and other countries. This decision is a tremendously justified response to the United States' decision to recognise Jerusalem as the Israeli capital. But it's not binding, and it's obvious that the previous day, Australia followed Washington's decision. I won't waste time reading the decision to you, but the decision refers to previous UN Security Council decisions. These decisions refer to Palestine as the capital of Palestine in the context of a final solution to the two-state formula on the basis of the 1967 border of East Jerusalem. Of course, the text I'm talking about doesn't make it clear. The UN General Assembly's decision was, of course, a good one. But that is the essence of the decision, whether there is a false perception or not. On the other hand, the increase in trade with Israel is mentioned. Against such criticism, O is business; we can't interfere as a state. This job is between private sectors, he says. Let's stop trading with Israel. I'm not suggesting that, but according to the rules and practices of the World Trade Organization, states have such authority, my friends. You'll remember, after the crash of the Russian plane, Moscow applied for certain provisions, stopping trade with us on the grounds of national interest and security. Such practices, of course, are forceful practices, not useful. The gist of it: Turkey could have followed a policy that would be more helpful and truly protect its interests, with a much more reasonable approach without being consumed by delusions, and could have been a more effective player in solving the Palestinian problem. Screams, delusions, and anger are not appropriate foreign policy tools. The government has been unpoliticized in this regard; rather than trying to cover it up in a roundabout way today, it has to assume its error and think about how it will shape a useful and effective policy. Dear friends, of course, now the time has come to explain our party's views on the 12th article. According to the article, the treasury's commitment to borrowing is set at $4.5 billion, with the guaranteeed opportunity and the limit of the external debt. This system also carries the possibility of putting debt on the citizens and taxpayers' backs by making it possible for companies who can't get the contract and finish the contract to take over the state's foreign debt loads. So, the company that invests has the opportunity to disappear once they get what they're owed from power. It is not possible that this could not be considered an opportunity created for non-compulsive firms. On the other hand, notice that both limits in Article 12 are expressed in U.S. dollars. The government, which has gone to compelling regulations for transition to Turkish lira, envisions tenders in exchange for foreign currency, is a complete contrast to the regulation of the budget law in terms of US dollars. You know, our external debt is piled up like a mountain. As if that wasn't enough, there's also the possibility of taking over the foreign debt of non-companies. Our stockpile of short-term foreign debt is now $140 billion. The gross foreign debt supply was 457 billion dollars as of June. A total of 45 billion $227 million in foreign debt was paid in 2018, with $4.5 billion in interest. Apart from the new debts, there is more than $400 billion in debt in the coming period, about 85 billion in interest. We're also getting new loans from Chinese financial institutions, such as a $3.6 billion loan package. These debts also affect our foreign policy as we mortgage the future of our citizens and our economy. In China, the Uygur Turks, our descendants are openly and heavily exposed to crimes against humanity, over a million of our relatives in prison camps are being treated badly and inhumane; power is silent. Is this silence against the Uygur Turks because of the loans taken, the persecution of the Uygur Turks, or because the Chinese companies are buying the third bridge, the Indian natural gas depot, all the subsidiaries have been directed to the Chinese companies' doors by power? During the EC PARTY administrations, the debt of citizens increased 79 times and increased to $522 billion. The citizen has become unable to breathe in debt. The economy is getting worse. The indicator interest has increased from 15 per cent to 24 per cent in just six months. The interest on the loan from abroad has increased by 2 times the average, so we are able to borrow at twice the cost.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0397par0177	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0396par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. In my previous speech, I told you that no economic understanding that tries to fund by taking revenge on the book and the magazine can survive, and the economy can't improve like this. This decision only determines the present and future of the country. In any country where we try to be involved, books, magazines and VAT are not 18% in the paper. In Italy, 4 per cent is 5.5 per cent in France, while Norway is 0. I consider this decision to be a great shame against education and culture, and I make it clear that the government means "don't read to people." I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0398par0182	Now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Baki Simsek. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0399par0186	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 12 of the Central Management Budget Law of 2019. I salute the nation of St. Turk and the Grand Assembly. Actually, I wanted to make a speech on the budget today, but from the first day of budget talks to these hours, unfortunately, the budget was the least talked about. Every day, from the opening of the House to the closing of the House, a perception management is being created through ethnic identities, through sects. In many parts of Turkey's pre-1980 period, painful events occurred. The National Party of Movement Dursun was killed by communist militants by pumping gas into their lungs with bicycle pumps. Even Republican People's Party (HDP) Minister of Customs and Tekel, the most successful Minister of the Republic of Turkey has been martyred by communist militants. In the pre-1980s of Diyarbakir, they were tortured by both Mamak and Metris, and the leftists were tortured by the countries, but no Turkish nationalist went to the European Court of Human Rights and complained to the European Court of Human Rights. Today there is also poverty in Diyarbakir and poverty in Hakkari. There is also poverty in Şırnak. There is also poverty in Mersin. There is also poverty in Çanakkale Ayvacık. There is poverty in Balıkesir villages today. Our government is trying to take certain services to these areas as far as it can afford. I show you a picture: Silifke Karak, the village of Bağdağ. This picture was taken yesterday, taken on December 17, 2018, by the valued MPs. Look at the village of Silifke, and the mountains of Toros at the foot of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the mountains of Toros; if you see only one tent and smoke smoke, no one will destroy this country. Electricity came to the village of Yörk, which he called Yörk yesterday. I say God bless those who work hard, God bless our state, our nation. The villagers prayed for victory over the electricity that came in December 2018 on land, in the air. Of course there are, there will be. There must be mistakes, but the state doesn't do wrong, it's the people, it's the people, it's the people who do wrong, it's the people who act on certain missions and commit negligence and abuse at the time. As in all parts of Turkey, of course, my constituency, Mersin, has many problems. Every city's MP who comes up here has shared issues with his territory from the Turkish Grand National Assembly bench. So because Kurds live in this region, because Turkmen live, not because Arabs live, but because there are problems all over Turkey, dear friends. There's an airport in Hakkari Yüksekova today, isn't there? You all know it. There's an airport in Ağrı. There's an airport in Bodrum. There's an airport in Dalaman. There's no airport in Mersin. The Mersin airport was unfortunately auctioned off with the do-and-do model, years of disintegration work, project work. The first firm went under, then re-trialed, and the second firm that's currently receiving the tender went under and will be retrialed for Mersin airport. One of the most important projects in Mersin is the Kazanlı tourism region; I attended two groundbreaking ceremonies, including one with the President, but unfortunately there is not a nail stuck except in a way that can't be finished. The ministers of the period told the Mersinites that athletes who come to Mediterranean Games will stay at hotels held there. Mersin is not the city of promises, Mersin is not the city of acts, but has not yet done enough in Mersin. I thank all those who have done so by the way of Mersin-Antalia. Over 50 per cent of the road to Mersin-Antalia was built, about 60 to 70 per cent. There are 13 or 14 of the 28 tunnels completed, but there are still 15 more tunnels that need to be made. I hope this project will be completed as soon as possible and presented to the service of the Mersinites and Antalyans. Again, the Mersin-Mut road does not go as requested, I'm afraid. During the 2015 elections, the Mersinites were promised that these projects would be completed in 2017-2018. And the sturgeons waited curiously to see if anything was going to happen, but unfortunately, all of the road projects are always being delayed. Again, we're on our way to Pineland. During that period, our Minister of Transport, Mr. Lütfü Elvan, Sir Mersin, was nominated for MP and at a meeting -- I was 47 years old in 2015 -- I said that there was a 15km road in about 15 years, and since this road was 60km, it was doubtful if I would ever see it end. At that time, the road will be completed again at 2018-2019. It has been said that the road will be completed. Two years ago, we attended the 100th year of Gulnar, with my deputy Haci Özkan. There is another road to Gülnar-Siliphke, which Hajj Bey said, "We will finish in six months." I said if you finish this road in a year, I'll cut you a camel. We still have Sarikechili, Karakeçi Yörük who lives in tents in Çukurova, but unfortunately, Gülnar Road and Gülnar-Aydük Road... Eight lanes will be made on the road to Adana-Mersin. Really, thank you for the work on the road. In many parts of Turkey, positive work has been done, good roads have been done, but between Adana with a population of 2 million and Mersin with a population of 2 million, there is not a nail on the television screens that has been nailed to this very moment by Adana-Mersin. It's not clear whether this road will be built or not, precious MPs. Unfortunately, between Adana and Mersin again... So Çukurova has the most religious land in the world, the most fertile land. Of the 3,000 crops that grow in the world, 1,800 grow in Çukurova, and there is no other region in the world that grows so much. But unfortunately, there is no natural gas in any of Mersin's districts now, except for Mersin Central and Tarsus. There is natural gas coming to Erzincan Grape, and natural gas projects are being done to Erzincan Tercana, and to Coral. Let it be done, there are 7-8 natural gasses in the district of a city of 2 million people who are worthy of the most beautiful services throughout Turkey, and no one has yet seen or heard a project on when natural gas will come. For him, as an MP of Mersin... we have, again, a number of dams and pond projects that have been built in our region. There's a Cotton Dam in my village, where I was born. Mr. Veysel Eroglu, our former Minister of the Forest, promised our citizens on October 13, 2013 that I would open this dam at 13.13. 2013, 2014; I came out of this chair in 2015. I spoke to Mr. Secretary. He said, "We're going to finish at 2016. I'm going to finish in 2016." He said, "We're going to finish in 2017." He said, "We're going to finish in 2017, I'm going to finish in 2018." It's 2019, right now there's not even a guard at the dam, dear friends, not even a guard at the construction site, it's abandoned. Again, it will change the fate of Çukurova. There's another flood in Mersin today. And it came to pass this day, that the children of Tarsus were floodd again in the city of Peace, and in the house of Yazar, and in the ears, and in many villages, and in the midst of the waters of the greenhouses. The Aksifat Dam, the Millençay Dam; all of these have been laid down, projects have been prepared for them, but unfortunately, the intended funding has not been left, the valued MPs.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0400par0201	Congressman, don't complain about the partner so much.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0399par0202	So I'm sure that during this period you're sending a minister to the government every semester, and the next period, there's no word from that minister. At this time, I am waiting for the solution to these gangrene - related problems in Mersin, which is our natural right. The people of Mersin, the land of the yörüks, the land of the Turkmen, deserve this much. That's what we expect from the 2019 budget. In fact, during budget negotiations, we just don't want to listen to promises here. What we normally expect from the government is that we have 20 billion investments for the next year. We're going to divide 1 billion of this into land roads, we're going to divide 300 of them into Mersin, we're going to divide 200 of them into Niğde, we're going to divide 100 of them into Konya. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0401par0206	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0399par0207	...in order to reassure the Commission and the Commissioner, you're making the ruling MP ask the questions you've prepared your answers to, and I'm watching them carefully from here. The issues prepared to answer are asked from here by the ruling MPs, and from there, you, the Commission, answer these questions. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I wish the budget of 2019 to be a blessing to our government, to bring good luck to our country. But as an MP of Mersin, as a son of Mersin, I wish to make sure that Mersin's problems are resolved, that Mersin be saved from floods and disasters, and that all our citizens get well, and I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0402par0211	Baki, I don't think you're going to Mersin.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0403par0212	Şırnak MP Hasan Özgünş is now on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ozbrik. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0404par0216	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and our people. In the massacre of Kahramanmarash, I salute those who lost their lives in Operation Return to Life, and Mother Taybet, and condemn the massacres. Dear friends, really, Turkey's problems are very heavy. Here, in this House, we need a democratic, liberal and tolerant understanding. The power -- I say it in the nail -- and the chair has a drunken effect, dear friends, it's a general principle.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0405par0219	They're drunk as hell.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0404par0220	The statement of Bakunin (Bakunin) is very important: "Put the crown of power at the head of the democrat, and in 24 hours it becomes its opposite. " It's oligarchy if you switch to democracy with uneducated masses. If it continues, demagogues, or so-called sophists, are born. In our country, education is really inferior. We have scientists who say that Noah spoke on the phone, and they are more useful to the country and to the nation. We have scientists who don't know that there are many citizens who don't know that there is an Ataturk. They are asked on television. A lot of people don't know where D.C. is. What's a pie? College students are asked at Cumhur University, and there's one who can't answer that. There's a college student who doesn't know where the Great Wall is. Thus, dear friends, through such a mass, the power sustains itself. Once upon a time, Ecevit had a very beautiful saying, talking about a politician who could tell a lie like it was true, who could tell a lie the best, like it was true. I can't tell you his name. Dear friends, I'm afraid this is the view in Turkey today. Since Sovereign politics and logic are not scientific, democratic and libertarian, we, no matter what the opposition says, two ears are blocked, one ear goes in, the other comes out. Dear friends, I made a joke to a friend of mine, which makes sense that sheep, goats, rabbits and cats in the garden are all sheep. I couldn't explain it to my friend. In the end, I had to, either you -- in the nail -- you're a terrorist and a traitor." I said, I had to get out of it. Now, there's that logic in Turkey, my friends. So you want to make the Arab, the Circek, the Laz, some of whom I don't know who you want to make a Turk, and that doesn't happen. Now, there is no democracy in Turkey, my friends. In 2016, The Economist magazine ranked Turkey as number 97 in 165 countries. Among the 21 countries in Western Europe, Turkey is the lowest democracy in the country. Why are they like that? Now traditions, culture don't change easily. Now, in Turkey, the May 27 coup, the March 12 coup, the September 12, 1980 coup, the February 28 coup, the April 27 coup, the July 15 coup, and the July 20 coup, as the CHP friends say. Now, can the country of coups, the country of martial law, the country of the State of Emergency be democratic? And we come from a culture like this: we come from an understanding that in the Ottomans, 44 viziers were massacred. III. You all know that Mehmet killed 19 of his brothers for the sake of power. Now, dear friends, of course, it's not very easy to change this understanding, this understanding of coups and traditional culture. I understand that, but we have to convince each other, change each other; otherwise, Turkey's problems will not be solved, and as a matter of fact, problems will be mountain-like. Now, there are five main conflicts in the Middle East: one, between religions and sects; two, between identities; three, between men and women; four, between sovereigns; five, between rich and labourers. These are also Turkey's problems. Now, dear friends, we can solve this on the basis of logic, discussion. There's a French joke. The plane will fall. They ask the Frenchman: "Will you fall down, will you take the horses down?" he says, "Yes. You're not brave, you can't jump. They say, he jumps. They call the Kurd a ban. He says, "If it's illegal, I'll jump." Now, dear friends, neither with the courage of the Turk nor with the stubbornness of the Kurd. We have a joke. There were two young men; one Turkish, one Kurdish. They asked the Kurd, "They're executing you, what do you want?" He said, "I want to see my mother." He said, "Don't let her see. Let's not do it, guys. It's a shame. Now, how do we resolve the conflict between religions and sects? Ninety thousand mosques, so many imams, you give them all money; you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them, you don't pay them. We call secularism, secularism is the separation of religion and state affairs and an equal approach to society, religion, faith. So the secularism we have is a fabricated secularism, the opposite of the original. Now, my dear friends, how many ministries does the religious budget go through? But let's see the others. Men and women's inequality, dear friends, as far as we're concerned, there's no end to trouble in a society where women aren't free. If the family doesn't get free, society doesn't get free, society doesn't get free. In politics, women are limited. Only 104 of the 600 MPs, only 2 of the 16 ministers, and only 4 of the 49 deputy ministers are women. According to some reports and some press agencies, 13.928 women have been killed so far in the last 16 years, yes, in AKP power. Dear friends, 20 million men over 15 years of age. How much is she, 9 million; the difference is 11 million. Therefore, there are no women here. In 144 countries, Turkey is ranked 131, at the rate inequality of women and men. The Sovereigns destroy the ecology, what in the name of the capital, by plundering the air, water, dams, and HESESTs, and their underground resources, and burning our forests. In particular, we have not been left with nearly no forest due to operations in the heavily populated geography of Kurdish people. There's an I.D. battle, guys. Other minorities, especially the Kurdish issue, are not free here. Furthermore, the AKP government has a separate allergy to Kurds. What the President says in his own declaration is that when he reads it, we stopped the independence referendum of the southern Kurdish federation state. The Minister of Interior said the same thing here. So, you know, we want a state in Cyprus, I don't know, we want one in the Balkans, we want one in China, we call them all Turks in China, and we're there for all the oppressed, but this Kurd -- I'm telling you in tongues -- we need to stop being hostile. If the Kurds and Turks unite -- democratic, liberal -- we move forward with other peoples. We've seen it in 1071, we've seen it in 1514, we've seen it in Saladdin Ayyubi, we've seen it in the founding of the republic, we've seen it in all of them. Now, Cemal Abdunnasir is calling Talabani in 1960, saying: "Let's make peace with you and Saddam." What does he say: ▪ Turkey is sending us a delegation, saying: "Don't turn on the radio, Kurdish radio." So, dear friends, let's give it up. In response to the Kurdish language, what President Germany said in Germany was: "Asimulation is a crime of humanity." We agree, it's very true. But Kurdish children, children of other peoples, are subject to assimilation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0406par0239	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0404par0240	Now, we lost 50,000 people because the Kurdish problem couldn't be solved. A AKP MP told me we spent 1.5 trillion dollars, dear friends. Only 84 billion defenses this year. Dear friends, I have one or two more things to say: there is no law in Turkey, 30 per cent of citizens say there is law. Sami Selçuk said that the law is stuck between the wallet and the conscience. Now the law is stuck between the two lips of the court, dear friends. No one in the world really believes in our law. That's what we saw in the reaction to the ECHR decision, both in Brunson's case and in the case of the German journalist. No freedom of the press. The workers pay 63% indirect taxes, 90% of the capital goes to the rich, 10 percent goes to the other people. So, friends, it's not a laborer's budget, it's not a public budget, it's a loan shark's budget. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One last word, dear friends: In order to solve these problems and other problems, we really need a real liberal, democratic, scientific understanding. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0407par0246	What a scientific speech.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0408par0247	Turkey has no Kurdish hostility, PKK hostility.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0409par0248	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0410par0249	I'm the President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0411par0250	Mr. Akbasoglu, is this from your position or from your position according to 60?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0409par0251	Assimilation, allergies to Kurds were mentioned, so such an incriminating statement was made. So I'd like to make a statement from my position.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0411par0252	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0409par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we listened to the preacher, and everyone needs to meet in a unifying language, not in a separative language. According to his own fiction, it's always possible to come to different conclusions with some hypothetical suggestion, but the truth is, in fact, the allegations are different. We certainly don't want to assimilated any society, any community, cultural pluralism, all democratic rights in accordance with the constitutional regime of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll clean it up.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0412par0259	Let's wrap it up in a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0413par0260	I thought you said it wasn't opening, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0409par0261	Well, let's not get ahead of ourselves, but the statement I made when I said it went there, you know, I'm not over a minute. As a result, the forest was burned and so on and so forth, many false statements were made. I'd like to point out that the EC PARTY has been a party that has expanded freedoms for 16 years, multiplying, has been involved in development and social, social justice in order for all of our people to live a prosperous life, and has always obeyed cultural pluralism, but Turkey's governments have not made any compromises in the fight against terrorism, and will never compromise. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0414par0265	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0415par0267	Now, there's something I've always said about politics, and this is the solution, the solution, not the place to scratch the problems. If we scratch our own political interests, political future, and power concerns, we are doing evil to this country and to this nation, what friends call the peoples. Now, Mr. President, what was this government doing in Imra, Kandil, Dolmabahçe, Habur? What was he doing?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0416par0269	To reveal the true nature of the PKK.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0415par0270	Yeah, yeah! The PKK is separate, the Kurdish problem is separate; don't mix it up.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0416par0272	We separated those two. That's different!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0415par0273	Now, look, there's a cry.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0417par0275	Plus one minute, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0415par0276	Like, in the past, there was a meaningless defense for its headdress, and it caused victims, it caused problems, it led to the community, and it camped society, and today, and the day before that, in Turkey, there was an assimilation process for Kurdish culture, for Kurdish identity, yes, friends, we couldn't bury our heads in the sand like an ostrich. In this country, if you don't make the man name Kurdish, if you don't write him a letter in Kurdish, if you don't make him sing in Kurdish, you'll drive him mad, and he'll do his part.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0418par0278	In 16 years?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0417par0279	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0415par0280	They're two different things. Here I am also saying that this problem is where PKK finds blood, and this problem is a serum for the PKK; the PKK feeds on it, and politics feeds on it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0419par0282	Are the representatives of the PKK saying that here?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0415par0283	They're both wrong, that's what I'm saying. So, Mr. President, everyone has their own opinion.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0420par0285	Complete, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0415par0286	I'd like to complete it like this, if you'll excuse me, like a pirate notification. I mean, everybody thinks different, but we're gonna have to put up with it. Turkey's stay is not just the problem of the EC PARTY. As much as Turkey and this nation have a problem with the EC PARTY, the Republican People's Party is the problem with the People's Democratic Party and the National Movement Party as it is with the People's Party.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0421par0288	The question of belonging isn't theirs.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0415par0289	Don't worry, if Turkey actually has a beka problem, all parties here and all parties that don't, we'll be quote-unquote, and we'll call the non-female traitors.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0422par0291	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0423par0292	Mr. President, I couldn't get into the system.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0422par0293	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0423par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Anyone in our group who's Kurdish and a little older knows. When we started elementary school, after drinking and learning, we moved to class after our language turned and began to learn; who spoke Kurdish in the evening at home, and who received this report before starting class. We'd get put on the board, and we'd be lucky if they opened our hands and hit us. You can all imagine the pain when we're struck at the tip of our fingernails, and I'm not being dramatic.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0422par0298	Guys, guys, guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0423par0299	Listen to me... Mayor, if there's any noise, I won't continue. I want to use my time.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0422par0301	Guys... wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0424par0303	You ate less, I wish you'd eaten more.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0425par0304	Shut up!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0426par0305	You shut up!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0427par0307	Guys, please, let's just give it a rest.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0428par0308	Speech!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0426par0309	Show some respect!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0427par0310	Friends, I promised Mr. Survivor. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0429par0311	Don't be rude.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0427par0312	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0430par0313	You took the beating for other reasons. Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0431par0314	This is the members of the group, so please stay out of this.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0432par0315	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0430par0316	They're being disrespectful.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0432par0317	Just give me a second, just give me a second.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0430par0318	We're done. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0432par0319	Wait a minute... don't interfere. Guys, okay, just a second...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0433par0321	Your people say, "Don't talk!" That's what they say.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0434par0322	No, I'm glad you got beat up. What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0432par0323	Please, okay, turn around.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0435par0324	Okay, guys... Mr. Survivor, please. Friends, if you won't even accept this, what more can you accept? I'm here to tell you a fact, a fact. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Without bringing it up as much as possible, without giving it away, we're on something else. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0436par0330	But we're starting again, Mayor, because I couldn't talk, I couldn't take my time.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0435par0331	Okay.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0436par0332	It was a torture we saw every morning. "Happy is the one who says, "Happy is the Turk! "We have learned Turkish all the time with this oath, and with your mother in the evening, because you spoke not a word of Turkish with your mother, and because you were speaking Kurdish in the morning. Now, no asymlation. It's called. A single Azadiya Welat newspaper has been shut down. We still advocate the right to learn Kurdish, Kurdish in its native language. Like it or not, we Kurds want to protect our native language as a guarantee of our existence, our future. To bring it into the future, to teach our children, to teach it in the language of teaching...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0437par0334	There are more Kurds in the AK PARTY than you! Why are you their representative?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0438par0335	Let's finish it. Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0439par0337	We want it to be a teaching language; we want it to be secured, and we want it to be rewarded in our Constitution.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0440par0338	Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0439par0339	There's assimilation, unfortunately there's assimilation in our country. Even here, you will not say anything about Kurdish geography. In fact, you have reduced it to such a degree that you will not even use the class that Erdogan once apologized to. You said, "You will not use the class." And you all know the history of how to make the name Tunceli, and you have even denied it. That's why we're saying don't delay facing it. Together, for the future of this country, the democratic solution to this problem is essential. Come, I'm calling for our blessings. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0441par0343	Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0442par0345	Mr. President, we didn't have to take any promises under normal circumstances, but... now, we're talking about Turkey, the state of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0443par0346	That's a shame. You're being racist.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0444par0347	What's wrong? This is the deputy leader of the group.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0445par0348	Folks, this is your group president speaking, please... Mr. Nightingale, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0446par0350	Excuse me. Now, as the Nationalist Action Party of the Republic of Turkey, when it comes to discussing what kind of state the Republic of Turkey is, we would like to say that we have never accepted the statements of both the deputy leader of the Republican People's Party and the deputy head of the HDP-member group, and especially the expression of "assimilation" and the assessments made in that sense. The state of the Republic of Turkey still exists in its founding phase, east, west, north, south, in this country...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0445par0353	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0446par0354	...in the common will of all our people, all of our people, the Republic of Turkey was founded as the state of the Republic of Turkey, and in those years, the expression came to this day, being understood in a way that would not disturb anyone in the east of Turkey. There is nothing acceptable about the use of this work as a means of abuse and the fact that there are some racist perceptions from the expression "Happy Turk" in Turkey. If an assessment of the Turkish nation is made, I can make it clear that if there's only one nation in the world that doesn't know racism, it's the Turkish nation. There is no other nation in the world whose heart is as wide as the Turkish nation, full of love and conversation as the Turkish nation, except for itself, and who are not like him, and who look at them with love and conversation, even though they are not at all, and want to be there for them in their hard time. I'm betting on it. These statements of ours...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0445par0356	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0446par0357	That's why we say we're Turkish nationalists. Praise be to God, for there is nothing to be ashamed of at that point, because there is no moment of shame in this nation's past, we do this nation's nationalism with great pride and pride. Ataturk didn't build this country with that kind of understanding, racist understanding. This country, along with all its elements, has been blessed. But the Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group has to make a statement on these matters. See, you said "assimilation," and then the HDP took the word, saying, "Happy is the Turk!" and saying, "Our oath is with him and with Dersim. Well, I now want Mr. Altay to answer as the party of Ataturk, against HDP's statement concerning the matter of our Andiz, and also to answer to the one who says, "Happy Turk!," and to answer to the statement of Ataturk's health of Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0445par0359	Let's finish, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0446par0360	I want him to make it clear whether they're standing on the side of Seyit Reza, or on the side of Ataturk. (MHP and AK PARTY) The last time Mr. Onur Öymen said it was from the bench, he stood beside Ataturk, and since then there has been no news of Mr. Onur Öymen.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0447par0361	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0448par0362	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0446par0363	Make your position clear at this point. Whether or not you will maintain the founding values of the state of the Republic of Turkey, present a clear attitude. The HDP's statement is clear, and the Republican People's Party will clarify itself.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0449par0365	There you go, there you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0450par0366	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0446par0367	It's not us, it's you. Come in.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0451par0368	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0452par0369	Mayor, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0451par0370	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0452par0371	It's an insult, an insult, and I want a promise.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0453par0372	I didn't insult you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0451par0373	Okay, okay, wait a minute. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0453par0375	I didn't insult you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0454par0376	It's insulting, it's insulting.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0455par0377	Tell me, the word belongs to Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0454par0378	I'm not gonna learn from you where I stand.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0456par0379	Is it up to you? Is it up to you?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0455par0380	Tell me. Tell him it belongs to Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0457par0381	Guys... okay, we promise everyone.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0458par0382	If Ataturk were alive, he would have asked you for it, Engin Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0457par0383	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0459par0385	Tonight, as members of the group's chair, we decided that the tired assembly would immediately be able to recover these things, but unfortunately, we had a little difficulty following that decision. I, first, want to tell you about assimilation. In 1912, in the Balkan War, in the Balkan Balkan Balkan Balkans, 85 per cent of the population were Turkish and Muslim, the population dropped to 4 per cent over the past 100 years. If you want to see assimilation, I want you to look at the Balkans, where the Turks and Muslims are assimilated. If the Kurdish population in 1912, the Kurdish presence... if our citizens in the east, southeast, who have the right to live in Turkey, have representatives in the same Parliament today...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0457par0388	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0459par0389	It's called the will to live together, not the assimilation. So, to say that the Kurds were assimilated in this country is to hide behind the facts, to say the least. I just want to say that we don't agree to this. I've just said, if you want to see assimilation, please look at the Balkans, the Rumelia, where the Turks and Muslims have been assimilated in a hundred years, the real assimilation is there.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0460par0390	Fake assimilation!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0459par0391	So let's keep the House away from a bench where everything but the budget has been discussed since the beginning of the budget talks, and I beg of you. Things are always discussed, they're always discussed. I'm not in favor of limiting the issues that people talk about, but I'm in favor of expressing the facts. I'm opposed to ignoring the facts and bringing up a matter that doesn't exist here and keeping the House occupied. I want to express it. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0461par0395	Mr. Altay, from the stand?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0462par0396	On the stand, if you'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0463par0397	Sir, what in God's name did I say to speak from the stand?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0461par0398	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0462par0399	What didn't you say? What didn't you say?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0461par0400	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0464par0401	Make a statement, make a statement.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0465par0402	Answer these three matters for God's sake.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0466par0403	You answer three questions.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0467par0404	I stand by everything I say.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0468par0405	Mr. Altay, come and sing from here.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0469par0406	Answer these three matters, our oath, who says, "Happy is the Turk!" and answer the matter of my lesson, for God's sake.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0467par0407	You don't have the scales of my nationalism, my patriotism, you understand?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0468par0408	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0469par0409	Answer this class, for God's sake.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0470par0410	Answer three questions.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0468par0411	Guys, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0469par0412	Explain this lesson to us, and let us know if you are on the side of Seyit Reza, whether you are on the side of Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0471par0413	You promised the bench, didn't you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0468par0414	On the stand, please. Mr. Altay, we're waiting for your experience. Let's wrap this up. Please don't make trouble again.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0471par0418	Now, the end of politics is frustration, afraid to face reality. I'll tell you something, I'll give you a reminder. It could be before the 2002 elections. Mehmet Agar -- his ears are ringing, and his son is now here -- mentioned something about the Kurdish problem, and the people on the mountain said, "Put down the gun, and do politics on the plain." In 2002 and Mehmet Agar was lynched in Turkish politics. Where have we come from? There have been a number of developments in the Kurdish issue, including TRT Kurd, over some mistakes in the past. Friends, something, transformation, change, process, anyone who interferes with progress, if the process is right, it gets in the way. Turkey, who lynched Mehmet Agar, who said, "Do politics on the plains." Tent courts have been set up.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0472par0421	Answer this lesson, my son, my son, my son, my son!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0471par0422	What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0473par0423	Guys, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0472par0424	The clock is ticking, the clock is ticking.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0471par0425	Do I have to answer to you?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0473par0426	Please don't interfere.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0472par0427	The one who says, "Happy is the Turk! ▪ Assimilation?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0471par0428	Do I have to answer to you?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0472par0429	You answer it, you answer it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0474par0430	Mustafa Kemalci are waiting for you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0471par0431	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0475par0432	Guys, there's a preacher on the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0471par0433	What's wrong with you? From the way I look at you!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0476par0434	Answer the assimilation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0471par0435	I will, if you're patient.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0476par0436	Okay, I'll hold.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0477par0437	He listened to you, why don't you listen to him?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0478par0438	Don't shout, don't scream.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0479par0439	Come to HDP.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0480par0440	Friends, let's not interfere with the witness on the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0481par0441	HDP is a legal party, they come and say their opinion here. [[Between CHP and MHP rows, exchanges of speech, noise]] Mr. President, they won't let me speak, friends of a warning.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0480par0444	Guys, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0482par0445	Look at the party of Ataturk!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0480par0447	Guys, the speaker on the stand, we promised a friend of ours, the vice president of the group, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0483par0448	If I'm not mistaken, the five parties in this House are Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0484par0449	I'm saying it's got a name, it's got a name, it's got a name.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0483par0450	Aren't you Ataturk? Oh, come on.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0485par0452	It's called because it's a party founded by Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0483par0453	The party, Turkey's state-building party, is all of our party.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0486par0454	Are you saying you're a happy Turk or not?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0487par0455	Guys, why don't we just... There's no such thing as a negotiation. There's a preacher on the stand, he's talking. Let's add a minute, you've taken a minute, Mr. Altay. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0488par0459	Yes, Mr. President, now, I'll take turns answering. This is our oath, and the one who says, "Happy Turkish!," it's not even a job for you to talk about.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0489par0462	You tell me! Say it, say it once!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0488par0463	First, make an agreement with the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0464	It's called "Asymulation."
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0488par0465	Assimilation has happened in the past, brother, whatever you say.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0466	He says, "Happy is the Turk! They have assimilated us." He says, "Come, for God's sake."
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0491par0467	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0488par0468	In the matter of our oath, take one tongue with you, with your partner, with the Cumhur Alliance, and we will obey you. We will obey you, don't worry.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0469	Tell me about my class as the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0488par0470	Am I supposed to ask you what I'm gonna tell you? Mayor, you're being rude, you're acting group president.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0471	Tell me my lesson. Are you with Seyit Reza, and are you with Ataturk?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0488par0472	You're not gonna teach me what to say.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0473	I'm curious.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0492par0474	Guys... Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0476	I'm curious, I want to know.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0492par0477	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0493par0478	Tell me about this oath of ours. Come here.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0479	Are you with Seyit Reza in my class, and explain to me whether you are on the side of Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0492par0480	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0481	Explain, explain...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0492par0482	Mr. Nightingale, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0494par0483	Come here, come here, tell us about an oath. Come, and tell us what you say to the one who says, "I am a happy Turk!"
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0485	I'll tell you, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0494par0486	Convince your alliance, and we'll be right behind you as CHP.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0487	Explain this to me, whether you are in favor of Seyit Reza, and whether you are in favor of Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0494par0488	Shame on you, as a group of vice presidents.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0490par0489	Explain.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0494par0490	We're on our side, we're on our way.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0495par0491	What?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0496par0492	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0494par0493	We're on our side, we're on our way, got it?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0495par0495	It's unclear.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0497par0496	We don't know, but your president is singing Seyit Reza, and Onur Öymen is saying "Ataturk."
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0494par0497	That's a shame, that's a shame, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0495par0498	Tell me, what a happy Turk you are!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0498par0499	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0494par0500	You've got to be kidding me.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0499par0501	Come out and enlighten us, for God's sake.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0494par0502	You're on a new mission, you don't look like a provocateur, Mayor, you don't look like a provocateur.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0500par0503	Guys... Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0501par0505	Don't tease, don't tease, answer.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0502par0506	Enlighten us, enlighten us.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0503par0507	Yeah, last sentence: look...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0504par0508	All right, let's say hello to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0503par0509	The president, they didn't make me talk... And you're standing by.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0504par0510	No, I'm interfering, you see.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0503par0511	The last sentence... Where did this come from? I'm getting somewhere.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0504par0513	Friends, let's give Mr. Altay a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0503par0514	Let me finish.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0504par0515	Let's complete it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0503par0516	This country's been through some very strange things, including the state sitting at the table with the terrorist organization. These were impossible things. If this happened, there's a problem in the middle. By feeding on this problem, the martyrs will not die, nor will the country be divided.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0505par0517	Blessed is he who says he's a Turk!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0503par0518	It happens to our martyr, it happens to the mother of the martyr, it happens to the father of the martyr. Whoever does politics and feeds on it does the worst in this country. (CHP cheers) In this country, it's wrong to make politics out of blood, skull, race, instead of living in unity.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0505par0521	You can't say "I'm a happy Turk!" You can't say "Look," you can't say "I'm a Turk." Oh, and, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0503par0522	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0506par0523	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0503par0524	Now I want word on the bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0506par0525	No, why don't you take a seat?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0507par0526	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0506par0527	Let's see what he has to say.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0508par0528	Mr. President, if he picks on you on the road, you have to promise me again.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0509par0529	No, you're afraid to say, "Happy Turk!," he says, "Don't tease me." That's what he told a congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0506par0530	Did he just say that? I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0510par0531	Just a minute, sir...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0509par0532	Oh, yeah? You didn't tell him?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0510par0533	Who, me?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0509par0534	Didn't you tell Mr. Kamil?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0511par0535	If I say what you say, you can't sit there.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0509par0536	You can't say "I'm a happy Turk." He said "I'm a good Turk."
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0512par0537	Wait a minute... you take over. Let's see what he has to say. Okay, it happens again, it doesn't end, we don't close.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0538	Sir, you picked on me, so... give me a break.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0509par0539	No, no, I didn't...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0512par0540	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0541	Now, sir, I'm the one accused of provocation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0509par0542	Yeah, you're a provocateur. That's a shame.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0544	Yeah, okay, you did. Because of the provocation, I think that if the group has given the deputy president the right to a bench, then let's give it to us. At this point, I want to talk about the bench.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0514par0545	Mr. Nightingale, yes, I can, but I mean, this isn't supposed to come to this.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0546	Sir, I wish he hadn't come. I want to talk about the bench.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0514par0547	At first, you, our group presidents... please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0548	I wish he hadn't come. Sir, I want to speak of the bench.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0514par0549	I can give it to you, or it could be your place.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0550	Sir, I'll be on the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0514par0551	Okay, go ahead, fine.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0554	Mr. President, under the roof of this parliament, every political party can have its own opinions, its own opinion, its worldview, its challenges in Turkey, its different views on the solution of social, economic problems; we respect all of them. As long as it stays on legitimate ground and within the limits of the law, it's all a crown of honor. Now, we're asking for a clear line of statements to be used while we're talking about things here, and we're not saying anything else. I've been hurt by the testimony of Mr. Altay. Yes, there has been an assimilation in Turkey from the mouth of a member of the Republican People's Party who prides himself on being an Ataturk's party. When it is said... Assimilation is a very grave expression, there will be other consequences. In Turkey today's political sense of Kurdishism, separatists, or other targets for Turkey, using such an expression that they did not drop from yesterday to today, it is very grave to be expressed by the Republic of Turkey's People's Party that we have a policy of assimilation before any of this has been expressed, without any of it being expressed.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0515par0556	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0557	Then, after saying "Assimilation" in the statement of HDP's deputy group, you are aware that the assimilation was filled in this way by HDP. It was said that we were subjected to great torments by the expression of those who said: "Happy is the Turk." So we've had a lot of difficulties, and that's not acceptable. This is how the assimilation is described.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0516par0558	You're flexing.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0517par0559	He didn't say that, he didn't even say that!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0560	Again, in what he referred to as class rebellion, he referred to the period as an extension of an assimilation policy.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0518par0562	Let's finish, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0563	Now, I'm asking you with great right: what is your opinion of the People's Party of the Republic? From here, Onur Öymen of the Holy Assembly where I stand said earlier: "We know the reaction from the mouth of Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who is now the leader of the Republican People's Party, in the riots of Sheikh Sait, in the riots, in the Dersim riots, we have oppressed and oppressed this republic. Now I say, is the Republican People's Party now with the HDP against Seyit Reza, or against Seyit Reza, along with Ataturk? [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] The one who says, "Happy Turk." Does he think it's assimilation? Or does the one who says, "Happy Turkish. " Does his expression mean that Turkey is a uniting, complementary element? However, I say, does our Andiz think that the HDP is an assimilation tool, as the HDP said, or is it an issue that unites and integrates this country? [[Noises from CHP rows]] Leave the MHP or something, and explain how you feel about these three things as CHP, nothing more. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0519par0573	You haven't figured it out yet, with the facts in the open, you don't see what the people you're partnering with are doing.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0574	I asked the questions, three questions...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0520par0575	Guys, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0521par0576	Mr. Vice President, I would like to respond to a very heavy challenge by accusing us of being offended by the oath and the one who said, "Happy Turk!"
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0577	I asked if it was assimilation or not.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0521par0578	I'll tell you, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0513par0579	And I'd appreciate it if you'd explain my lesson to me.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0521par0580	Yeah, what am I gonna explain to you?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0522par0581	We know the lesson, we know the heromarash. Come on!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0523par0582	Mr. President, I'd like a word after that.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0524par0583	Guys, let's not make a big deal out of this. I'll take a break, but I'd like to make it up to you, and you're the one who's going to do it, Mr. Presidents. Please... Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0525par0586	Now, in our politics, we don't answer to anyone but the nation and our organization, but to the General Assembly and to your knowledge, Mr. Deputy President of the Group, this is an offer of law, which is given its first signature as Engin Altay in 10/10/2013, and its contents are related to adding a clause to the National Education Basic Law, and its contents are related to the composition of the National Education Act. Do you understand?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0526par0588	I say, answer him.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0525par0589	And by assimilation, I mean... once we ask, what's the assimilation?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0527par0590	Melt, destroy.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0525par0591	It's the melting of the cultures of ethnic elements in the dominant tissue culture. If you forbid the Kurdish song, the Kurdish song, the Kurdish song, the Kurdish name, it's called -- no matter what the nation says -- assimilation, I say this.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0528par0592	Explain it to the one who says, "Happy is my Turk."
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0525par0593	Why do you forbid it?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0529par0595	You forbid it, CHP forbids it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0525par0596	You didn't forbid it, you didn't forbid it, that's what happened in the past. Look, I gave you an example, I told you about a historical process, I told you about Mehmet Agar. I told you about the lynching, I told you where we came from. We don't have a secret business in politics. What happened in my class is sad and painful, okay? But if I don't get between the Nationalist Movement Party and the late Alparslan Turkesh, you'll never get between the Republican People's Party and Ataturk. You can't go in, it's none of your business, it's none of your business. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Finally, I'm asking a question now: what about our oath, brother? The judge has a decision to make. What will happen to him who says he's a happy Turk? As the Cumhur Alliance...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0530par0600	It's exactly like that.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0525par0601	Look, the point is, I think the base of the National Movement Party is uncomfortable with the alliance with the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0531par0603	Guys... Mr. Altay, let's wrap this up, please, let's not mess around.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0532par0605	Never mind. Tell me about yourself.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0533par0606	The members of the National Movement Party, their executives, may want to develop this condition on the ground, to cover the base's discomfort, and we're not going into that debate. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0532par0609	Blessed is he who says he's a Turk!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit04spe0534par0610	Guys, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0534par0001	I open the Fifth Session of Turkey's 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the advisory board on Wednesday (19/12/2018), it was appropriate that the General Assembly continue its talks on Article 14/12/2018, and the proposal to continue its work until the completion of Article 13 (including Article 13) of Article 13/12/2018, until the completion of the Article 13 of the Central Executive Account Act in the Union on Thursday. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Engin Altay Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Fatma Survivor Mohammed Levent Nightingale GOOD PARTY Group Vice President Friends, I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. We now resume negotiations with Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019. Commission? He's in position. On the 12th article, İstanbul MP Fethi Açel is in charge of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Openel. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0535par0031	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute our High Council and our fellow citizens who are watching us on TV. Dear lawmakers, the budget talks we're discussing are on the verge of an economic straitlock that we face as a result of some 17 years of Turkey's bad governance. The budget debates of 2019 force Turkey to prefer civilization, prosperity, development, rights and law to a regime that demands waste, inefficiency, pleasure and luxury. Precious lawmakers believe that Turkey can rule without constitution, without institution, without bureaucracy, without integrity, today, unfortunately, without budget, as well. There's no people in this budget, there's not enough investment, but there's a lot of interest payments, guaranteed public-private cooperation and commitments. Mr. President, in his speech on behalf of our group on the budget of 2019, Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu has revealed a very fundamental fact about this budget in all its dimensions. This is not a budget to address the problems of citizens in the crisis environment that we've been through. This budget is not the public budget. In this budget, there are no six million 700,000 minimum wage living on a minimum wage of $1,603. In this budget, there are 1,800,000 workers paid under minimum wage, no more than 2 million construction workers, 3600 additional indicators, no teachers, no security guards, no health workers, no subcontractors. In this budget, there is no room for paid teachers, no contract teachers; there are no non-assigned teachers; there are no four million pensioners looking for jobs because they can't get along. We don't have over 700,000 pensioners in this budget who can't get their pensions even though they deserve it. There are no farmers in this budget who can't produce anymore because they don't get the support they deserve. In this budget, we don't have a tradesman who can't pay his rent, his mortgage, we don't have a citizen who's in debt, we don't have students who have dorms and scholarship demands, we don't have martyr relatives and veterans who are treated like second-class citizens. Dear lawmakers, where we come from today, public investments are downgraded to 65 billion euros in the budget of 2019, when the stake in investments was 88 billion in 2008. With dozens of pencils to save in the budget, reputation spending, waste spending, waste spending continue, and investments are being saved. Investment is, in its simplest terms, to allocate resources in order to benefit or benefit. To cut back on investments means to neglect future generations. Mr. Minister explains the decline in investments: (especially our infrastructure investments have been satisfied.) Dear lawmakers, we are still a country trying to complete its development as part of certain sectors. Compared to Southeast Asian countries and rapidly growing countries, our investment spending is not sufficient; it is less than 7 per cent. Now, I'm asking you, are these countries full of investments and we don't? The Minister has another claim: investments in 2019 are important to support the private sector's innovative and productive investments. Dear lawmakers, can innovation and productivity be reduced without education, without education? In 2002, the national education investments were divided into 22 per cent, while in 2019, the rate was reduced to 10 per cent. In 2002, the national education budget was divided into education investments by 17 per cent, while in 2009 the rate was reduced to 5 per cent. Since 2003, the number of students in higher education has increased by 80 per cent. However, the share of my higher education has been reduced by about 40 per cent compared to the previous year. The investment budget of the Credit and Housing Institution has been reduced by 25 per cent. Even the budget of the General Directorate of Innovation and Education Technologies, which produced projects such as the FATHIH Project, which was born dead and caused a huge waste, has been reduced by 78 per cent. Dear lawmakers, we see that the budget has not been invested in innovation and productivity as it is claimed, and there is not enough interest in science, education, culture, agriculture, social security and assistance. The budget does not include any measures that encourage employment, pave the way for qualified growth, preventing brain migration. The best indication of how wrongly investment budgets have been used during his 17 years of power is where we are today. AKP investments do not provide quality and sustainable growth, high added value production. The average growth in the AKP period was 4.9 per cent, while the average growth in multi-party living during the pre-AKP period was 5.1 per cent. The income per capita in our country has dropped under $7,000. Turkey is moving behind even the mid-income trap. Its income, its democracy, its labor force, is trying to create a mediocre Turkey. The injustice of income is rapidly increasing. The poverty rate has almost never gone below 20 percent. Growth pauses and regresses. We don't have enough jobs growing up. Unemployment is near 12 per cent and 4 million people. Non-agricultural unemployment is around 13%. With those who have lost hope of finding a job, the real number of unemployed is close to 6 million. The growth of young unemployment is much more dramatic, and the young unemployment rate is 21 percent. The quality of all public services, especially education and health, is falling, inequality is increasing. We've come across a sense of government that can't raise a qualified labor force or a healthy generation. Dear lawmakers, the survival of our country and the establishment of our republic have been very difficult. Our young republic, led by Ataturk and his comrades, has taken over a broken, poor, downsized, laggarded country, exhausted after many years of war. In agriculture, modernisation, agriculture institutes, agricultural equipment institutions, the Office of TEKEL and Earth Mahullares, the sugar factories, the Kayseri Plane and Motor Factory, the cement factories, the Sumerbank String and Bez Factory, the Bursa Milk Dust Factory, the Bottle and Glass Factory, the Anthrat Factory, the Karabuk Iron Steel and Pipe Factory in very difficult conditions, in the early years of our republic. The port of Haydarpaşa is bought from foreigners. The Etibank Institute for Mine Study, Divrik Iron Mines, Turkish oil companies were founded. Industrial and Maadin Bank, Business Bank, Real Estate and Eytam Bank, Turkey's Central Bank, People's Bank and Denizbank were built for nothing. Moreover, with all these achievements being achieved, the debt from the Ottomans was paid back to the last penny. In comparison to all these institutional constructions, economic development in the early years of our republic, the AKP governments have privatised our governments, PETCIM, TEPRAS, TEKEL, Sumer Holdings, TÜRK TELEKOM, SEKA, sugar companies, electrical distribution companies, shipyards and port businesses and mines. However, investments have been reduced, and public-private co-operation projects have failed to produce the desired results. The total contract value of public-private co-operation projects exceeds 135 billion dollars, but the amount of these contracts is around 61 billion dollars. In short, the state is giving up nearly 75 billion dollars in revenues in 20 years in exchange for the private sector's $61 billion investment. Even if citizens do not use them, they pay for bridges, hospitals, roads, tunnels; citizens cannot prevent their taxes from being squandered. Pointing out, almost all of the contracts continue to increase the debt burden of the treasure over currency, every penny of the currency. Dear lawmakers, if we can't digest Turkey's unconstitutional, lawless, unorganized, unresolved, non-responsive governance, if we don't want a budget with no people in it, and if we don't accept a budget with only interest and rant in it, let's say, come to this budget together for labour, for justice, for social justice, for social justice.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0536par0043	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0535par0044	Let's say no, not just because my party calls it the Republican People's Party, but because of the interests of our people. Dear lawmakers, I remind you that when we reject this budget together, when we say no to this budget, regardless of the party's distinction, we have nothing to lose but interest and rant, the interests of an 81 million people stand before us. With respect, I salute our great coven and citizens with these thoughts.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0536par0047	Now, on behalf of the person, Mr. Bursa MP Mustafa Esgin. Here you go, Mr. Esgin. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0537par0051	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 12 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. As part of Law 4749, the Treasury is defined as a guarantee of repayment, public economic initiatives, public banks, development and investment banks, city municipalities, other municipalities and organisations provided by these organisations from the foreign financing source. The potential impacts of the risks of debt, sustainability of debt and fiscal discipline are measured through scenario analysis and tools, which can be attributed to treasury guarantees and commitments to debt, are closely monitored by our Treasury and Finance Ministry. We, in our crazy projects, are looking for the maximum public interest by conducting a very detailed work in the planning process. We regard public goods as the trust of future generations, and we show maximum sensitivity to the exponential. The budgets we have prepared as EC PARTI governments have always been transparent, manageable, accountable, efficient and financially viable budgets. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, we've re-educated the largest share of the budget in this period. Our reforms in the field of education will continue so that our generations who will build our future can grow more educated. Not only will we improve physical conditions in education but we will continue to produce policies that can be applied to quality education and education. Besides, we have made significant investments in health, defence industry, transportation and tourism, and we will continue to do so. Again, in our medical work, we have made significant improvements to health care and health care costs in the world. While serving our citizens with high levels of satisfaction in health care, we have also become a center for health tourism by reaching a country that foreigners prefer. Thanks to 18 hospitals in our 16 years of power, my constituency was also granted to the AK PARTY authorities. In almost every ten months, we gave one hospital to Bursa. In the next year, we hope to open the 1,355-bed city hospital and 1,000-bed Ali Osman Sönmez State Hospital to the service of our citizens. We've developed a system where all our citizens can benefit from these opportunities by building modern airports and providing cheap air travel. The airline was the way of the public during the AK PARTY administrations. Dear lawmakers, a nation cannot tender its own safety. With that understanding, we've developed our domestic production defense industry products. Trust in our drones, our SIHAs, our Altay tanks, our ATAK helicopters, our friends, and fear of the enemy. In addition, we will reduce our dependency last week with our local helicopter, Gökbümbey....and hopefully, with our fast-working Indian Automobile Project coming to life. Mr. President, my fellow public defenders, the budget of 2019 is the 17th budget drafted by the EC PARTY governments, and is also the first budget of our presidential government system. If our nation is tasking 17 consecutive budgets in multi-party terms to the AK PARTY governments, it is also a sign of our people's trust in us. We have never abused our nation's trust in us. Praise be to God, we have always stood before our people, with our heads held high. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of 2019 to be a blessing, thanking all my friends who have worked so hard to prepare the budget, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0538par0064	Now, Giresun MP Necati will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Mumble. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0539par0068	Mr. President, when we look at the written and visual media, there's an impression in Congress that the citizens' budget is being discussed, although it's not. For one thing, everyone should know that it's not a budgetary budget, it's a budget for people who put their backs on the court regime, no matter where you look at this budget. This budget is not the budget of the teacher Ersin Turhan, who committed suicide because he couldn't buy his son clothes and committed suicide because there was no appointment. This is not the budget of workers arrested for demanding their wages in the construction of the AKP. This budget is not the budget of pensioners, 3,600 additional indicators waiting, minimum wage and nut producers. If the grant of the dianetin is higher than 10 billion dollars in this budget, if the funding of science and industry is down $2 billion in savings, if the share of the university is in place, don't these three examples show that even the budget is unfairly distributed within itself? This budget is a budget of money from privatisations, insurance funds, cost-effective military and zoning peace, provided by gold trays to the secondary capital. This budget is a budget from tax peace to the palace regime of income from the asset fund. Because of the crisis you caused our country because of the economic mistakes you caused, you showered the citizen with a raise, and then you went out and said, "There is no crisis, it's the game of the outside forces." If there's no crisis in the country, then why is the budget called savings budget? Of course you have to save money. Instead of millions of dollars spent on court reign, you did it for patients waiting on the operating table waiting for a scalpel. You did the savings for $10 from the teacher who committed suicide because he couldn't be appointed instead of the public's millions of vehicles. You did it on the minimum wage salary, on the 3600 additional indicators, on the pensioners, on the pensioners, on the pensioners, on the nut makers, on the farmers, on the workers, on the teachers. In short, you've earned the rights of an orphan, a woman, and a worker by doing so over the rights of citizens. You have done the rights of Turkan Saylan, Ali Tatar, and Kuddusi Okır. You have earned the right to our future, our children who own this land and have not been born. Precious surrogates, I'm going to do a very simple math account: a family of four, parents get minimum wage; $1,603 plus $1,603, the amount that goes into the house is $3,206. If he wanted to buy onions with all of them, he could get 610 kilos of onions. Of course, you know, there's a payment on the house, 800 lira rent, 800 lira bills, natural gas, electricity, water, Internet, phones... then there's $1,606 left in the pocket. You know, living with the AKP is a very expensive way of life. Kids have school expenses, notebooks, pencils, nutrition, 500 lira a month. It's not over yet, your husband and wife have a fare, and that's $480; that's another $980. And when we drop it at $1,606, all you get is $626. If he still wants to buy onions, he can get 120 kilos of onions. Family size, every meal, every meal, every morning and evening, eating bagels, drinking tea, costs $400 a month. When you're left with 226 liras per person, that's $56.5 per person, so it's under $2.00 per day. My citizen will either buy a bagel for $2 or get three onions or cry over this budget. As a result, we said human rights, you said they did. We said those who were old in retirement, you said they were young. We called him the nut maker, and you laughed and applauded. We said women's murders, you said they're being abused. We said "work killings, train accidents, resignation" you said "fitrat." We said child abuse, the Ensar Foundation, you said once. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0540par0074	Of course. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0539par0076	And in the end, you have brought this country to justice and law. In short, this budget, built on corruption, poverty, and lies, is of no use to the nation. On behalf of my party, my group, the people who sent me here, I don't accept this budget, I say no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0541par0079	You don't know anything but no.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0542par0080	Dear friends, talks on Article 12 have been completed. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. Other provisions concerning income and expenses ADADDE 13- (1) 22/2/2005 loans to the first article (f) of Article 51 of the State Special Administration Law (f) dated 3/7/2005 and the first joke (f) of Article 5393 of the City Code 5393 (f) shall be accounted for under the account of the interest of the state private administrations and municipalities which require advanced technology and large-sized infrastructure investments and projects adopted by the President (d) of Article 51 (d) and Article 5393 of the First Article 51 of the Law (d). However, loans to finance projects supported by its private administrations, municipalities and companies with more than 50 per cent of its capital are not required by companies supported by the European Union within the framework of pre-accession fiscal co-operation, by multilateral investment and development banks and loans directly from foreign state institutions or through the County Bank Anonim Corporation and loans from the County Bank Anonim Corporation for jobs under SDUAP. (2) The Treasury and Finance Minister, the Treasury and Finance Minister, who are responsible for the State accounts of the Bank's political risk, and the Bank's operational profits, which correspond to the Treasury's collections, and all of its outstanding reserve statements, or some of its outstanding benchmarks, rather than the Bank's political risk, are entitled to record them into the budget, according to the nature of the Bank's transactions. (3) The institutional revenues specified in the legislation of the Law No. 5018 and the general budget of those covered before 2006 are collected as general budget revenues. (4) All revenues from the age of the operating rights of resources and facilities are recorded in the general budget as part of the Law on Electric Production, Transport, Distribution and Trade of Institutions outside Turkey's Electricity Agency No. 4/12/1984. Anthalya MP Feridun Bahshi on behalf of the 13th article's Good PARTY Group. Here you are, Mr. Bahshi. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0543par0092	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the good PARTI regarding the 13th article of the income budget. I hereby salute the great Turkish nation and our Veterans Assembly. Dear lawmakers are values such as justice, law, rule of law, human rights, democracy, freedom of speech, religious belief and freedom of opinion, which are very closely related, which affect each other, which make the existence of one another essential to the existence of the other. It is the duty of democracy not to face administrative and criminal prosecution due to testimony and criticism. What's our country's report card for freedom of the press? Let's take a look at the freedom of the press. A total of 348 journalists worldwide are under arrest, according to the 2018 Annual Bilanço for Freedom of Press, prepared by Journalists Without Borders. More than half of the arrested journalists are in five countries, including Turkey. Turkey is the top of the world in terms of the number of arrested professional journalists in prison. In fact, Turkey's despot regime continued its title in the report to imprison the most professional journalists in the world. Our country is troubled not only for arrested journalists, but also for other employees. Consider two cases: The first has been indicted on charges of being a member of the organization they have been fighting since last week, in the 2000s, and have been known to be the authors of the Speaker newspaper. Everyone in Turkey knows that the journalists mentioned have been fighting this damn organization since day one. The second is FOX TV Main News anchored by the President himself, who was accused of instigating the previous day. What did the President say at the election rally, let's remember one more time: someone's out, oranges, tangerines, citrus, or citrus. If you don't know your place, this nation will blow your neck out if you don't know your place. Can you talk about freedom of the press in the country where everyone should be President after they've been elected? It's sad to even remind you that Mr. Akşener, our President, said, but the President is also the President of those who criticize him, and he can't target the President's citizen. Precious lawmakers are expected to pay 65 billion dollars for investments and $117 billion for interest payments when the budget figures are examined. According to this, the interest in interest is nearly twice as much as your share in investment. For years, those who have blamed the interest lobby on everything have surrendered to the interest lobby, international loan sharks. According to these figures, is there hope in this budget? Of course not. The economic crisis continues in a very intense way. Rather than investing in new investments, what else can I sell? Unemployment is growing, economic recession continues. Growth rates reaching 21 per cent during the Ataturk period are estimated at 4 per 10,000 per cent in 2019, according to the IMF Economic View Report. It's 2018 years we're in, so these are better days. In 2019, Turkey is expected by almost a storm, a hurricane. You know, the famous IMF says, "Did the worst come?" You know, the IMF says, "Yes, 2019 is the worst for Turkey." The most important indicator of the country's level of economic development and social development in this country is the employment structure and the size of unemployment. In September 2018, the number of unemployed across Turkey increased by 330,000 in the same period last year to 11.4 per cent. The situation of our young is more severe. One out of three youths are unemployed. The country faces an army of young unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, unemployment is in this situation, over. In this case, does unemployment feel like our employees are in better shape, especially the minimum wage situation? The minimum wage is the only source of income for millions today. He can't make a living on minimum wage, the workers you hire from subcontractors to municipal companies can't get along. Look at the raise that the EC PARTY, which has persecuted employees with increased indirect taxes and raises every year, has set for minimum wage, a complete comedy. The AK PARTY mentality considers minimum wagers to be modern slaves. Today's minimum wage is a full price of misery. There must be a pattern for those who work at minimum wage that can provide a life that is suitable for the honor of mankind with their family. The minimum wage should be for the labor of the worker. The minimum wage must not be taxed. The minimum wage must be above the hunger limit. The minimum wage workers are in debt due to severe income shortages. According to the Central Bank reports, 50 per cent of consumer loan users are paid employees and more than half the amount of consumer credit belongs to them. According to Turkish Union of Banks data, the number of individuals who have not paid the individual credit and credit card debt in Turkey is 3,330,317. The citizen owes $11.4 billion from consumer loans, 6.2 billion from individual credit cards. These figures show how the EC PARTY makes the minimum wagers, civil servants, workers, pensioners, and fixed incomes in debt, and how it drags them down. Dear lawmakers, again, the state of our pensioners is the angle of the interior. It must be one of the most important and priority tasks of the state to ensure that pensioners live an honorable life after years of service, but the entire pensioner is under the age of starvation. AK PARTY gives pensioners an allowance instead of a salary increase. He also discriminates between pensioners when he makes allowances. In this double standard, this bilateral application must be terminated, and pensioners must be considered a whole. Dear lawmakers, the state is obliged to set up a social security system that includes equal rights and obligations for everyone. Many of our citizens, however, are suffering from injury. We have millions of citizens who live in retirement, who are eligible for the number of days in retirement, who can't count the period of training and training for retirement, so we expect equality and justice in retirement. There's no reason why this injustice can't be dealt with, and there's no right to not be given the rights that have been earned. O government, that's enough, don't be so cold-hearted, hear the voice of those who live in retirement. And then there's the third airport. The airport opened on October 29th was recently flooded, and it was only able to swim in. Yesterday, we found out that the move was postponed until March. No, this airport's never gonna open, not in March or after, because the ground's collapsed.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0544par0105	Here you are, Mr. Bahshi. Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0543par0107	Yes, sir. The collapsed ground will continue to bring down the falling Turkish economy for good. For these reasons, we will vote no for the budget that does not benefit our nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0545par0111	Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Aksaray MP Ramazan Kashlı. Here you go, Mr. Eyebrows. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0546par0115	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the other provisions concerning income and expenses, which are the 13th Article of the Central Management Act of 2017, and the Central Management Act of 2017. At the beginning of my words, I salute your delegation, the General Assembly, our fellow citizens, and my fellow citizens from Aksaray, who are watching us on their screens. In this part of the budget talks, I will address the borrow of municipalities, including the special administrations of the 13th Article (1) of the municipality and the province, the 68th Article of Law 5393, and the Article of Law 5302, as required. The biggest problem with local governments is that they can't act on their local resources and they can't use the available resources at the desired level. They go into debt due to rapid population growth, income-goer imbalance, the need for funding of large investments and the failure to meet obligations to public administration. In this context, the laws 5393, 5302 and 4749 were regulated as legal basis for the use of foreign resources. Foreign debt is one of the sources of financing for municipalities from the Bank of Provinces, using investment loans and cash loans, bond exports and domestic debt. The important thing to be careful of here is the use of external resources. When municipalities fail to meet their obligations due to foreign project loans in particular, the Treasury assumes those obligations. The treasure is the treasure of the people's rights to serve the people. The national projects that will benefit the people long-term, will benefit the public, should be supported without the benefit of the party, and will be helped to overcome the obstacles that are actually in the public interest of color, language, religion, race, regardless of the difference. Mr. President, the budget we're discussing is the first budget of the presidential government system, following our support for the Republican Movement Party in both the referendum and the Republican Alliance in the election. Therefore, it is vital for us to use this authority accurately because of our support. Especially as our leader, Mr. State Gardener, who has recently been accepted as the security of the state of the Republic of Turkey by a large part of society, stated that the budget should be the hope of our unemployed youth on the street, our teacher, our underpaid, our workers, our farmer, our pensioner, our tradesman, our employer, our student, our student, the free profession owners, our 81 million citizens. The Constitutional amendment, which we supported as the National Movement Party on 16 April 2017, came into force on July 9, 2018, with a public vote. He is the head of the new system, Mr. President. The National Movement Party is sensitive to the fact that the presidential system is placed on a healthy ground with all its institutions and rules and that the system operates with all its elements. We believe that as long as the Turkish nation is one body against global attacks, it will overcome these problems. We too strive to do our part by the power we receive from the nation. If we can overcome these problems as a Turkish nation, we will build confidence in the Turkish economy in both national and international markets, and our economy will become more stable. Mr. President, after the budget doesn't provide solutions to socioeconomic issues, no matter how well we budget it, no matter how well we set goals, if our peace and quiet is lost, if the will to live with the beka is at risk, the fancy words will mean nothing. Turkey was hit by an economic attack, aimed at Turkey's collapse through the economy. These initiatives have been set up by measures taken, but the threat to economic security remains. In order to prevent this threat permanently and quickly address the elements that have made the economy fragile, we can sum up our proposal as the National Movement Party with nine articles: 1) The lack of coordination between economic institutions must be removed. 2) In accordance with the principle of giving the trust to its owners, it must be taken care of. 3) Law must be preferred under the quality of management. 4) We have to reduce our dependence on foreign finance and ensure economic security. 5) We need to make economic growth stable and sustainable. 6) We need to produce and commercialize technology and prevent brain migration by focusing on RD studies. 7) We must ensure financial discipline and tax justice. 8) We need to stabilize the price and bring inflation down. 9) We must immediately draw down the unemployment rate declared 11.4 by the TİK. As Turkish nationalists, we declare that we are on the side of our national economy and state as we point out, and the presidency finds the first budget of the government system positive, and we wish it to be good for our nation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as we approach the end of our budget talks, I'd like to bring up an important proposal for our hometown of the saintly city of Aksaray. Comments and analyses following the traitorous attempt on July 15th revealed very clearly how risky the positions of the areas of the military units in Ankara, our capital, are. In this context, I know that the work is going on to move military areas out of Ankara, and I say again that this is important for the safety of our country. From Aksaray (Aksaray), our capital border with Ankara, which is an hour and a half away from its location, it is easy to reach all parts of Turkey 24 hours a day at the intersection of E90 roads connecting the north to the south and the west to the east. We demand that the mountain commando brigade be brought to the foot of Aksaray Hasandağ, as an example of the mountain commando brigades in our country's beautiful cities, Kayseri, Bolu and Isparta. Where I'm talking about, we have 10 football fields the size of a football field. With the availability of the land and the mountain structure, this area is quite suitable for mountain commando training. The area is about 20 or 30 kilometers from the region's village and is 35 km from Aksaray. For our citizens outside the settlement... who are about to come to the oath ceremony and military visits... it is possible to transport by land every hour. Also, the removal of 10,000 available military troops outside large cities will improve Anatolia's economy, creating jobs in many areas and reducing migration to major cities. Our Aksaray (Aksaray) will provide a serious population flow from the permission of the privates to attend their families' swearing-ins. Sectors such as accommodation, food, beverages, souvenirs will grow in chains, which will create new jobs, and will increase tax revenues. My Aksaray people, who supported the Cumhur Alliance with 76 per cent, expect this news from our Minister of National Defence and Mr. President, as we are about to discuss his budget in 2019. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the other thing I'd like to point out is that our Aksaray football team is playing in a stadium with the top of the honor bleacher, with 2,000 to 5,000 viewers in Aksaray. This stadium, unfortunately, does not have the status of the city and cannot meet the need of our Aksaray. We need to build a new football stadium similar to the Manisa Akhisar Stadium. We know that about six years ago in Aksaray Province, an international football stadium was earmarked for 125 acres of land on the road to Aksaray-Konia from the national Realty. However, since no investment programme has been put into place so far, no transactions have been made, we find it necessary to bring it up. Speaking of which, lastly...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0547par0139	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0546par0140	The games are being played on our Aksarayspor, which finished the first circuit as leader in the Toto Regional Lig 5th group. Last week, last weekend, the events of the Silifke Mayor's game have upset the Aksaray community. I hereby declare that we are always with our black and white community. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly, as the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019 is a blessing to the public, to our country, and to our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0547par0143	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Muş MP Gülüstan Kılıç Koçyiğit. Here you are, Mr. Sword Coachygit. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0548par0148	Mr. President, dear friends, I respectfully salute you all on behalf of my party and group. So I made a promise on my 13th amendment party. Before we get into the context of my speech, I'd like to briefly say a few words to the arguments in the 12th article in the previous article. Of course, it's not about opening up a new polemic or becoming a subject of a new bullying, it's just to let everyone under the roof of this House understand once again that there's no assimilation. You know, there's assimilation. We have systematically assimilated Kurds for years, but you have not only assimilated Kurds, but all the differences that live in this country, the Circissians, the Pomaks, the Lazes, and the Armenians and all the other peoples who are from this country's ancient communities.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0549par0151	You're a separatist, you're a separatist!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0548par0152	You're also assimiting the Arab people. You're not just assimilate ethnic groups, but you've also assimilated the Alevi faith, different beliefs, all of which have been going on for years as a systematic state policy. Nothing goes away just because you say there isn't.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0550par0153	You don't exist when you say you do!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0551par0154	Mr. Tamer, please calm down.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0548par0155	Why did you give TRT Shesh (TRT Shesh), good news, good news, and good news?)
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0552par0156	We gave it to the Kurds to let them know.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0548par0157	You know, if there's no assimilation, if the Kurds are so free, why did you introduce the opening of courses in the native language, the opening of private courses, to Turkey, like a new invention of the world? If it's allowed to speak native language, why have prisoners and prisoners so far been unable to speak Kurdish with their mothers? Because of us, in the AKP government, you said?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0552par0158	AK PARTY solved it!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0548par0159	If there was no assimilation, if the Kurds were free, why are you bragging about it? And a lot of them aren't real, that's another thing. Dear friends, the history of this country is unfortunately history of massacres. One of those dates is December 19th. What happened on December 19th?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0552par0161	AK PARTY solves problems in this country.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0548par0162	On December 19th, the Alevi Kurdish people of this country suffered a genocide, a massacre, dear friends. What did they do? The method we know is that the intelligence guys went there first, under the image of the National Lottery.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0553par0164	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0554par0165	Yeah, just listen. Just put up with it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0553par0166	Listen, that's enough. Go out there and talk. Go out there and talk. You've been yelling all morning.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0554par0167	Just hear me out. Don't talk. You're talking, too.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0555par0168	26 national lotteryers were sent to the city, and what did they do? A movie was bombed. There was a rumor that the people who did this bombing were Alevis, leftists, communists. Two left-wing teachers were massacred when it could have been handled very quickly, when it was possible to prevent events. Not enough, the people who went to his funeral were stoned by pre-organized paramilitary forces from the roofs. But that was not enough, my dear friends, nor was it enough, that, on the 23rd of the month, all of the Marashan were slain, especially the houses that had been hit before. How? I'd like to tell you about Ali Sharsh. Ali Sharsh. How was he slaughtered, dear friends? He was brutally slaughtered, his arms and body separated and boiled in his own blood.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0556par0169	There's no such thing as slander.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0554par0170	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0555par0171	If you say that didn't happen, you can go first to the MET archives and then to the public archives.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0554par0172	Well, if you don't believe me, then look at the indictment.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0555par0173	If the Maraş massacre had been faced, there would have been no stock in this country. If the stock had been confronted, it would not have been Sivas. If Sivas had been confronted with the Veteran massacre, we wouldn't have had to remember what we had lost here in that massacre.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0557par0175	What happened in the chieftains? Sing the chieftains.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0555par0176	As I said, it doesn't matter what you say. The facts are not covered with sun or clay. Dear friends, one more thing: today is December 19th, and my friends told me at the entrance. There was also an operation called a return-to-life operation, but two of them were soldiers and 32 people were killed. Why, I'm asking you. What did those people want? They wanted to improve the prison conditions. In prison conditions, they demanded an honorable treatment. What was done in return? What happened on the negotiating committee is still under the roof of this House. Before the talks ended, the button was pressed and the operation was carried out. In the end, two soldiers were killed by bullets from their own military weapon, but 30 people were killed by the burns, bullets, beatings of unknown chemicals. This has also been determined by reports from the Human Rights Review Commission. Those who want to look at this report in the Parliamentary archives can also look at this report at the time. Dear friends, were these the first operations? History has always shed its tears, its slaughter, its suffering, on the part of opponents in this country. Because here's the thing...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0558par0179	What about the chiefs, the chiefs?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0555par0180	You think this government is yours alone. You're an acceptable citizen, and we Kurds, we Alevis, us women, the leftists, the dissidents, you think they've never lived in this country. But...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0559par0181	You can't talk like that!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0560par0182	Make up your mind which one you are.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0555par0183	Mr. President, will you shut him up?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0561par0184	Listen to the messenger, listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0562par0185	Let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0561par0186	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0563par0187	You can't speak for the women of all Turkey!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0564par0188	Will you shut him up?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0565par0189	President, but when you interfere with our security, you say nothing.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0566par0190	If you'll excuse me, I'll decide where to step in, okay?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0567par0191	It's a good thing you didn't pick on me from here!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0568par0192	Don't insult these people. Speak without insulting this nation.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0569par0193	What massacre are you talking about, the PKK is doing the massacre?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0570par0194	No, no, they won't shut up.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0571par0195	E, okay, I'm interfering, but there's something wrong with this one, like in elementary school, where you don't have the peace of mind you want. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0572par0197	But you have to intervene.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0571par0198	There's no such thing here. I'm interfering. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0573par0201	Yeah, well, the truth hurts, the truth hurts.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0574par0202	You're talking about this people's stand.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0571par0203	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0573par0204	The truth hurts so much...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0574par0205	This is the people's stand, not the party's.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0571par0206	Guys, whoever I promised is talking to. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0575par0208	Yes, this is the nation's bench, and we're telling the nation what they've done, the massacres on the citizens of this country. These people were citizens of this country, they were taxing this country, but as citizens of this country, unfortunately, they lost their lives in prisons, in Marash, in Çorum, in Sivas.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0576par0209	Don't interfere with Sivas.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0575par0210	Isn't that the past? Closer, dear friends. What's closer?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0577par0211	The chieftains...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0578par0212	There's the PKK, the PKK.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0579par0213	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0580par0214	In the meantime, I'd like to show you all this officially. Take a good look at this picture of Mrs. Hacer when she went from prison to hospital during the December 19th operation. You know what he says? They threw such a substance at us that our clothes weren't burning, but our skins were running. Can you imagine? Our skins were flowing. It's still not explained what was the chemical used, what was in it, dear friends?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0581par0215	No lies, no court reports, no chemicals.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0582par0216	It's all a lie. It's all a lie.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0580par0217	You'll look at the House transcripts, you'll look at the transcripts of the House Research Commission, the review committee, dear friends. Let's get to the near term. So, are we done with this massacre? I'm afraid it's not over. In the blockades, which began on December 14th and lasted for months, people were shot again in the middle of the street, in the courtyard of his house, while some were praying, while others were reading the Quran, while others were going to the side to get what was left of his neighbor. One of them was Mother Taybet, and Mother Taybet was a mother of 11 children, and her seven-day funeral failed to be taken off the street due to the blocking of law enforcement forces controlled by the AKP government. There Mother Taybet didn't die, there the conscience of this country died, her conscience.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0583par0219	You put a bomb in there, a bomb.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0580par0220	The human values of this country died there.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0583par0221	It wasn't taken because you put a bomb in there.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0580par0222	So each one of us has to have these human values.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0583par0223	There was a bomb, a bomb.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0580par0224	You can't distort the facts by competing with the pain, saying, "People, Sakarya" in the slightest matter. There's a fact, yes, there's a Kurdish problem, there's a problem with Alevi...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0584par0226	PKK problem, PKK problem; Turkey's PKK problem; Kurds have PKK problem in this country. THE PKK is a result...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0585par0228	Tell me about it...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0586par0229	Guys, I'm gonna take a break, please... look, please... let's just keep this conversation going, whoever I promise, please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0587par0230	Now, if you could at least follow your own political line, right now, you would know that the President, your own President, has a Kurdish problem, the Kurdish problem is this country's problem, but it's my problem in the first place.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0588par0231	You don't talk about Kurds.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0587par0232	You would also know that the Kurdish problem is a result...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0589par0233	Not PE-Ke-Ke-Ke, but PE-Ka-Ka.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0587par0234	You probably know why it's the mother language, the discrimination, the lack of constitutional equality. But I think you've forgotten about it. Nisyan, which means that memory loss is a big deal, of course, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0590par0236	You too have forgotten the massacres of the PKK, Ma'am, you have amnesia.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0591par0237	Let's finish it. I'm going to wrap it up, Mr. President. I want to finish by saying one more thing: Now, what is overlooked in the budget pens that are too large to fit on the calculator screens? What do those old coins, the quadrillions that we can't see, get in exchange for the millions that are now? This picture falls to his share.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0592par0241	The governor's office has made a statement that he's aiding...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0591par0242	Guys, I'm gonna have to call in some of the mouth-to-mouth guys, give you half an hour.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0593par0243	The picture of the boy going to school with a backpack made out of an old blanket falls on his share. Do you know what happened to that painting? He got fired from his job. Selvan Teacher lost his job sharing this picture and asking for help from his student. A little conscience, a little conscience, dear friends. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0594par0246	You're eating the bread of this country, talking like that. It's so wrong, so wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0596par0248	You'd be ashamed of what you've done. Disrespectful!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0597par0249	I don't think you've said enough. You haven't said enough.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0598par0251	Mr. Akbasoglu, are you on the stand or are you on the stand?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0252	I'd like a word on my behalf for an explanation, yes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0598par0253	Please, your time is one minute.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0256	Mr. President, thank you. We've just listened carefully to the words of the speaker on the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0599par0258	Did you hear that? You didn't listen!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0259	They don't reveal the truth. In Turkey, all our citizens are equal before the law, and there is no discrimination.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0599par0260	Some are more equal than others!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0600par0261	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0262	Turk, Kurd, Çerkek, Alevi, Sunni, whatever status, ethnicity, religious faith, wherever it comes from, everyone is equal to the law. There is no assimilation in Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0600par0263	Bollocks, bollocks, bollocks!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0264	In the form of cultural pluralism, in our cultural policy, all kinds of freedoms to learn their own language, to live their own culture were made during our rule of power. There's nothing wrong with that.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0600par0265	There are people here who have those problems, Mr. President, people.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0266	Turkey has a PKK problem, and its head is crushed.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0600par0268	You're talking, Afaki!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0269	However, about the Marasian incident and the Sivas incident... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just finishing up, I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0601par0272	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0273	What did CHP do in their transition to the events of Maraş and the events of Sivas?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0602par0274	Remember Roboski!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0275	The CHP representatives are here.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0603par0276	Look at the mind, look at the mindset, look at the mindset of those who do it!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0595par0277	They can answer for themselves. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0604par0279	Of course, I promise them now, without picking on them.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0605par0280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0604par0281	Mr. Altay was waiting for him. Mr. Altay, your position, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0605par0283	Nay, but an eye which the blind desire, Allah hath given them two eyes. So Sivas and Maras are connected to us.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0606par0284	No teasing, just a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0605par0285	Oh!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0606par0286	No teasing, no teasing, no explanation. Sir, Maras and Sivas have made a statement about the incident, and I want CHP to explain it, that's it, it's over.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0607par0288	Okay, he'll explain, but where is he? On the stand or on the stand?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0606par0289	No teasing, no teasing!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0608par0290	Everyone who followed Mr. Akbasoğlu understood that he had linked the events of Sivas and Maras to CHP. Don't tease me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0606par0292	It happened when you took over.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0608par0293	I mean, two minutes from here...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0609par0294	Here, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0608par0296	Thank you. I am automatically entering the system, Mr. Akbasoglu, in accordance with the rules and the reciprocity. Now, first, let's say that as of this moment, you disagree with Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I'll explain, calm down. There's an explanation for Mr. Erdogan... which I've already said on the stand that, based on Mehmet Aghar, in the past, it's been much more intense to ignore culture, language, color, art, and now it's gone. Mr. Erdogan says, "What does that mean? What does that mean? The policy of assimilation is no longer implemented. It means, historically, his word. I mean, you're jumping around here, but Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan says that the date is 11/9/2012...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0610par0299	There are no applications during the time of ▪CHP. It means that there are no applications.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0608par0300	Sir, let me finish. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who announced that by 11/9/2012 the policy of assimilation has been implemented in Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0610par0303	Lies!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0611par0304	That's not true, that's not true.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0608par0305	Well, here's what it says. Oh, Recep Tayyip Erdogan is lying, he's wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0611par0307	No, you're not telling the truth, you are.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0608par0308	That's a shame.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0611par0309	You're deflecting.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0608par0310	Mr. President, it would be inappropriate for me to twist the President's words.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0611par0311	You're deflecting.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0608par0312	Those are the words of the motamot president.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0612par0313	Mr. Altay, I'm going to turn on your microphone. Let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0608par0314	As for Maras, Sivas, Çorum, etc.... on this land, sometimes it's the communists-fascists, sometimes it's the Armenians-Turks, sometimes it's the imperial games called Alevis-Sunnis... that I feel the sadness, I live. And before 1980... a friend of ours just told me that the communists had been massacred... something or other. I didn't say this: I didn't say that we would call it that -- we would call it -- the fascist massacres, the Gardenhouse massacres, because I believe that they were all designed from a command table. Yesterday, I meet with the intellectual who called me "fascist", who calls me "communist", and now I discuss Turkey every week. I wish we could have done that in the past. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0612par0317	Thank you. Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0613par0319	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement since he said something to my name.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0614par0320	No, I said Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0613par0321	You said "Akbasoğlu" and also referred to Erdogan. I'm just going to make a statement. I'd like a moment's notice about me and what you said about our President.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0615par0322	Picking on the president?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0616par0323	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0617par0326	What I'm saying is that during the events of Maraş and Sivas, the CHP was in power, and I said, "Can you explain your thoughts about this?"
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0618par0327	I said it, I said it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0617par0328	Secondly, it is necessary not to take the President's word out of context by twisting it, breaking it out of its meaning and context. What is it?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0618par0329	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0619par0330	Mr. Altay, calm down.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0617par0331	Assimilation is never at stake. As for all our Bosniak brothers, Kurdish brothers, Podak brothers, Çerkek, Roman brothers and sisters, as part of cultural rights in Turkey. There are approaches and regulations for integration of cultural pluralism, complementary, state-nationalization. That's what we're saying. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These are the regulations of freedoms that our President says. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0620par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0621par0336	I promise. Dear friends, I have something to say. Of course, in order for our program to work here, we need our group presidents to show some sensitivity. Our MPs show that sensitivity. For this reason: Look, I have promised no friend according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0622par0338	Mr. President, that's not fair.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0621par0339	So let's not just turn this into a game between the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0340	Don't turn, yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0621par0341	But we need to show this sensitivity together. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0342	No, I'll tell you what I'm saying, maybe you won't.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0621par0343	Wait a minute... Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0346	Mr. Akbasoglu teased me, saying that I twisted the President's words.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0624par0347	No, not at all. No, no teasing.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0348	But I'm here again...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0624par0349	Without breaking the context...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0350	I'll take it from here if you want.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0625par0351	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0352	It's like...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0626par0353	I'll pick on you if you want.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0354	Brother Satas!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0626par0355	I mean, if you want me to pick on you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0356	Satat! I'm reading this statement from the President's statement: we're making a call with the National Union and Brotherhood Project, and we're saying, "Let everyone spill what's on their skirts." It could be called the National Union and Brotherhood Project, it could be another name; it doesn't matter. The point is, there's a case. Solving this is a thing called Kurdish, and I don't accept it anymore. Turkey is now Kurd...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0626par0358	Yes, there is no Kurdish issue; yes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0359	Just hear me out! Listen to me! Listen to the end.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0626par0360	Yes, there is no Kurdish issue.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0361	It's here now, it's important now.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0626par0362	It's a matter of terrorism.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0363	Hey, listen to me! There is no more Kurdish issue in Turkey, it is over.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0626par0365	Yes, the Kurdish issue has been overcome and there is no assimilation, there are cultural rights.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0366	Yeah, hear me out!
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0626par0367	There's unity, unity, integrity.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0627par0369	Here, wait a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0370	Now, yes... ..now a terror in Turkey.......
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0628par0372	Why are you trying to cause trouble?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0373	Yeah, I'm reading the President's statement! Don't you have the patience to listen to the president's statement? [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] There is a terror problem in Turkey -- which I agree with -- Turkey currently has PKK problems, Turkey currently has political Kurdishism.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0628par0376	We say the same words, the same words. There's a problem with the PKK.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0377	I praise the other Kurdish brothers. In a process like this, we continue this struggle and we will continue it to the end. No one's... I mean, it's important right now.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0628par0378	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0379	Hey, listen! No one can say "rejection policies in Turkey" right now, no one can say "industrial policies are being implemented," no one can say "assimilation policies are being implemented" anymore. Because..
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0628par0381	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0382	Stop, stop, sit down! Because I call my Kurdish brother my brother. I don't put it aside, I don't push, I don't push. I serve in the ministry.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0628par0386	That's it, that's it.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0629par0387	It's the first time the two groups have allied, applauding each other.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0623par0388	The exact name of this is Erdogan, who says there was assimilation up to me, not after me. That's exactly what he says.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0630par0389	Mr. President, stop this tuluata! I swear it's like a tuluata. What is this?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0629par0390	Guys, please, let's not have an argument between two groups of vice presidents anymore.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0631par0391	Just for the record.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0632par0392	There was assimilation up to me. He said, "Edogan."
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0633par0393	Mr. President, please stop this. If so, Mr. President, we want a word.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0631par0394	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0633par0395	Mr. President, what is this?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit05spe0634par0396	Okay, I'll take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0634par0001	I open the Sixth Session of Turkey's 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019. The commission is in place. İstanbul MP Ahmet Ünal Çiviçüşçüş is now in charge of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Quickie. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0635par0012	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the 13th amendment of the Central Government budget proposal in 2019, and I hereby salute the High Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I begin my remarks, I would like to express my criticism of the talks on the budget of one man. We've been talking about the budget in the Turkish Grand National Assembly all week, but the executive office to use the budget is not in parliament. We face a process that clearly contradicts the historical development of democracy and the pluralistic system in our country. The principle that the budget is the essence of the right to law is abandoned, and the key to the state's vault is given to the one man. I would like to point out that this budget, which single man has determined and completely ignored the principle of social justice, will not cure the economic crisis that Turkey is facing, the minimum wage, pensioners and the narrow income, the problem of living, the problem of violence for women, the abuse of animal rights, the policy of education away from positive mind, the tightness of foreign policy. Precious lawmakers have been considered by NATO PA as the first non-free country in history, as if Turkey's Idlib and Menbic were not trapped in its budgetary goals, and the European Union progress reports did not call for talks to be halted, the Libyan Conference was not an unwanted country, and for the first time it was considered a non-privileged country, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, as if there had never been problems in the field of energy. The AKP's foreign policy never promised peace, peace, prosperity and stability. The principle of peace in the country, peace in the world. Today is completely removed from Turkey's foreign policy. Military operations are being carried out in the elections to win votes, but Turkey is like a windpipe in a single man's regime. There's no integrity or stability left in the diplomacy. The single man's regime increases polarisation within the country, while the region produces tension, conflict, dissolution and poverty. The structure of the new system, which is based on the one-man implementation of the June 24th 2018 elections, deepens our country's vulnerability and vulnerability in foreign policy with its organisation that increases institutional dissolution. Turkey, which has had an F35 crisis with the United States against the promise of purchase of Russian S400 missiles, has now approved the sale of 80 Patriot-type GEM-T missiles and 60 other missiles worth $3.5 billion. What balance will Turkey have for the approval of this sale? Has a new technology been developed that we don't know about so that both the S400s and the Patriots can have air defenses together? Or are Russia and America chosen to choose Turkey's skies to clash with each other? The AKP, which is quickly moving away from European Union membership, describes the power as 1.2 billion euros by the European Court of the Union, can't even explain where the EU's aid for Syrian refugees has gone. The AKP, which came to power in 2002, created a debris that poses a great danger to our future in all areas of foreign policy, and today there are no goals to address the wreckage it has created. Turkey's foreign policy today has been ripped from its basic principles and deflected. So he's lost his neutrality, credibility, and credibility. The chain of mistakes has destroyed Turkey's ability to be considered the most reliable actor in the region and to have a higher mind to address problems with its credibility. Since Turkey lacks the ability to be an impartial region in the Middle East, it has been made a scene of Middle East ideological disputes. The lack of diplomatic representation in many countries today is that we have lost that neutrality. Turkey was maintaining and improving its interests in foreign policy before the AKP's rule, both East and West. Our relations with the Western world were also conducted in a line that balances Russia and the Middle East. Multidirection was the main line of Turkey's traditional foreign policy. Today, our foreign policy, which cannot be described as multi-directional and lacks a balanced perspective, prevents our country from being able to land on different grounds on a regional and international scale. Until a few years ago, however, Turkey boasted of its desire to become a founding country in the Middle East. At this point, we are now an irregular country, not in the Middle East, but in the Eastern Mediterranean. You know, the East Mediterranean is now focused on routes outside of Turkey in terms of extracting energy sources and transferring them to Europe. Israel, Greece, Cyprus have sped up efforts to establish this line with a trilateral co-operation. But they all know that the most economic route for a pipeline is through Turkey. Would it not be necessary to speak to Israel, or even Egypt, now to have a say in this energy competition? Of course, it should be, but the high-value lawmakers, the whims that dominate foreign policy, do not allow for a holistic foreign policy that protects our national interests. We have no ambassador in Israel, nor in Egypt. See what else we do not have ambassadors in Israel? The 9th article was discussed, and there was a confusion in the concept today. He said that the United Nations knew Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine. In fact, one by one, let me explain to you what happened: the leaders of the Islamic countries gathered in Istanbul, after the United States recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and East Jerusalem declared Palestine the capital of Palestine. Later, the United Nations General Assembly met to vote on the decision of US President Donald Trump. The resolution that criticised Jerusalem's decision was adopted in the United Nations General Assembly by 128 votes. This vote does not include the decision to adopt Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine by the United Nations. The UN General Assembly's decision, dated December 19, 2017 (10/22), was called to refrain from forming a diplomatic mission in Jerusalem. The statements in the bill are as follows: ▪ Taking into consideration the special status of the holy city of Jerusalem, especially the need for the protection of the city's spiritual, religious and cultural dimensions, as stated in the United Nations decisions; Stressing that the final status of Jerusalem must be decided as a result of negotiations under UN decisions; Reconfirming that the decisions that intend to change the status, character, or demographic structure of the holy city of Jerusalem have no legal effect, are invalid and must be annulled according to the decisions of the Security Council; It invites all states to refrain from forming diplomatic missions in Jerusalem under UN Security Council Resolution 478; All states demand that the United Nations Security Council act in accordance with the holy city of Jerusalem's decisions and not recognize any action or measures against these decisions; In the Middle East, the Madrid Convention, including UN decisions and land rights, repeats its call to speed up international and regional efforts, aimed at reaching a comprehensive, fair and lasting peace map based on the Arab Peace Initiative and the Middle East Four Road Map. It is our duty to inform the public correctly. Let the record show that we were deceived again. I'm giving them to your knowledge so that they don't say, but I'd like to tell you about something far more dire. By the time the decision was passed by the General Assembly, it was claimed that Turkey would soon appoint ambassadors to Palestine. We need to know the truth; we have a consulate in East Jerusalem, where we had a diplomat with a title. His mission was to represent our country in Palestine, but our diplomat has not been in Jerusalem for six months. Since we cannot have ambassadors in Tel Aviv, we cannot send our consul general to Jerusalem. What happens after all? In Palestine, we are depriving ourselves of the opportunities to represent ourselves. Those who rise in anger sit in harm. Congressmans, as we think about it, if we withdraw our ambassador from that country, this country, the result will lead to foreign policy weakness. This is the situation where one man's foreign policy brings the country to this day is weak, and even in the most important Middle Eastern policy, breaches have been opened. Mr. President, I'd like to make a final note that every time the Syrian President's name changes, so does our Syrian policy. Ten months ago, according to the records of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, there are still those who say, "Let's get together with Esed. " What would you do with a murderer who killed 1 million people? In December 2018, the name of Esad (Esad) has been renamed again, and we can consider working with Minister of Foreign Affairs Mevlüt Sargeglu (Esad). There is a saying, "This is not fasting, this is sauerkraut!" I think the best example of this is Turkey's changing Syrian policies. Let's stress this conflict on this occasion and present to your knowledge that we will not approve such a budget of contradictions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0636par0035	Now, on behalf of him, Tripoli MP Bahar Ayvazoglu. Here you are, Mr. Ayvazoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0637par0039	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 13 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. While our budget wishes to bring blessings to our state and nation, my city, which is the 1st in the LGS ranking of Turkey, congratulates its precious educator, guardian and students, and I salute our beloved nation as we share that pride with you. There's no question that we've been under a major attack in recent years, trying to manipulate the future of our country. They set terror organizations on us, put bombs in the middle of our cities, attacked our airports, our borders were forced. What is called civil war has been tried to serve our country through Syria. The travel plot, the pie of December 17-25, the shares of diplomatic terrorism and economic blockades were not enough, but also a coup attempt. We've been through a rough patch, they've hurt us a lot. A hundred years from now, we have avoided the shields with our great nation to make us pay for our decision to be an independent state of the world again. Forty years later, we were truly victorious in the fight against terrorism. We stopped waiting for the PKK and chased the DEAS in front of us. In light of the developments, the possibility that the Islamic world and all the oppressed geography would be consolidated on the axis of Turkey has changed from a dissertation to reality. It doesn't matter if someone's still in there didn't notice, progress is giving us the signs of a new pole. The world now bears witness to the problems of global forces more than its powers. In contrast, Turkey is much more than Turkey if people are staring into their ears and looking into explanations from Turkey in all the troubled geography that bleed from Gaza to Aleppo, West Thracea, Jerusalem, Somalia, Ethiopia, Arakana, Yemen, and Yemen. Now all the rest of the world is ready to accept Turkey's patronage, and we're the only country in the world that has a loud appeal to the world order established on their behalf. How many July 15ths are there in the history of politics in the world? They'll be writing the history of this country in the days to come. And don't forget these are the days when deep and parallel structures within the state, such as the end of the military custody regime, have been ripped out of the state. Turkey's going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and We've come to a country that lends money from a country that owes money door-to-door and is three years in a row the most generous country in the world, and builds its independence with drones and SIHA, and goes to its source to get rid of terrorism. At this point, at a time like this, no one should be stuck on artificial agendas with cheap rhetoric that has to carry the burden of being on the brakes to the resurrection. Because the situation you're worried about depicts discipline in the form of your will. It's the same with rebellion. The dress of the spirit of your action contains an elaborate elegance or purposeful impropriety based on the subject it is intended for. So if you're not concerned about your nation's common values and you're not going to rebel for the same purpose, your ideological consciousness deserves to be properly exposed from the council bench. It's clear that in this resurrection process, we have to use our human strength, our resources, learn from crises, work harder, and develop systematically. Turkey is now a real world state in a political and economic sense. To continue to believe in our country and stand by it is the nature of our existence. We must have our greatest strength, unity and unity. The Founder's mind is back. Turkey now draws its own road map both inside and outside with Recep Tayyip Erdogan's revolutions. That's exactly why the budget divides a significant portion of it into the defence industry. Because you don't get to a certain point in the defense industry without freedom, without freedom, you don't have anything to say. You can't say in the streets that my body is my decision, nor can you come up to this stand, no matter what your religion, whatever it is that you're in, and you're not afraid, and you're able to coagulate all sorts of things. If only after the first steps of our republic had been achieved in the past 16 years, we would be talking about a different kind of Turkey. So you can't be in the country, having broken the backs of terror, combining geopolitics and geocultureal balances, combining with the evil will of those who can't come from the mountain and drive off the vineyard, or you're caught up in the modern fairy tales of the age...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0638par0046	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0637par0047	...or you can simply follow Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who received a genuine note of world history by establishing justice and nobility in the new world order. Not if you're weak enough to trade fear and human values for evil fiction, but in the face of a leader you can't scare with authority, not even death. Your profession is exhausted seeking help from the outside, and his strength is sharpened by his love for his people. Of course, there are hard times in the state and the nations, and what's important is that at times like these, you can be with the government and your nation, and you can unite in the common denominator of the country, and you can say, "My highest value is my homeland." Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0638par0050	Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş will now speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Goldstone. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0639par0054	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise against Article 13 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I'm afraid my speech won't be as delicious as it was before, but I'll try to be realistic. Sometimes the truth can be bitter and tasteless. In the (1) article of this article, the amount of domestic and external debt, including the municipal, municipal private administration and the interest of its member organisations, is said to be insurmountable. The stockpile of this debt included a large amount of financial funds accepted by the President. At first glance, it seems reasonable because it's a preventative substance. Still, I'd like to point out two things. First, limiting debts means the government has given up its unlimited debt policy for 16 years. In a sense, it's clear that they've seen the wrong consequences of their own actions. The second point is that the country's decision-making mechanisms are linked to one man, as the country's major resources-needed projects are expressed by the President. It is not difficult to predict that the president, who is also the president of a political party, will use his powers, especially on the eve of local elections, in favor of which municipalities these days, against which municipalities. Another concern is the vague expression of material resources in the matter. The vagueness of this definition means giving the president the authority to define. We know that in major projects that have been done so far, the interests of the public and the state are not well looked after, the projects have no serious feasibility reports. We want you to show us if there are feasibility reports for investments such as the New Istanbul Airport, Osmangazi, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, city hospitals. You have a freak project like Channel Istanbul. Turkey may be described as the greatest betrayal of Istanbul and Istanbul. Is there a feasibility to this project that can cause serious damage to nature, environment, transportation, quality of life? Will it have a strategic effect on our country? Or is the land speculation being targeted as it has been done before? In the sequel of the first joke, exceptions have been explained that this debt limit will not be applied. It is true that debt from the European Union and foreign states is an exception. The loans under SDUAP are also excluded from the scope. The vital importance of water, sewers, infrastructure, is to keep these projects out of the picture. In the article (2), the Turkish Export Credit Bank's collections under political risk are authorized to save revenues from the Treasury and Finance Minister for extraordinary backups. He is also authorized to spend these revenues as he wishes. It's almost like getting oiled out of a fly to find income in the budget. The promise of the economic situation is accepted by placing hands on the bank's extraordinary benchmarks. The increase of VAT to 18 per cent in the book and newspaper to a presidential decree published today is an important evidence of the economic situation. In Article (3) and (4), the budget of some other institutions also shows that the budget needs income. If we look at the overall budget, we can say that it doesn't give the citizens hope, it's called austerity, shrinking, and debt payment budget. The budget 2019 envisions an overall 14 per cent increase in 2018. Based on the inflation that's happening, it's a reduction. In dollars, according to December 18th, the budget is down from 198 billion dollars to 164 billion dollars. The interest payments increased from 73 billion euros to 117 billion euros, so they increased by 60 percent. As my friends have noted earlier, this budget brings the farmer, the worker, the pensioner, the officer austerity, poverty, and recession, and the investments are in order. In short, it states that I will not vote positively for this budget, and in particular, which does not give citizens hope, predicts at least 20 percent poverty, gives them significant funding for interest payments, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0640par0068	Thank you. The only speaker who speaks on matter...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0641par0070	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0640par0071	Sir?
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0641par0072	I'd like to make a statement to your honor's question, "Does Kanal İstanbul have feasibility?"
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0640par0073	I mean, he asked the general, didn't ask you. That's why I'm going to...
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0642par0074	He didn't ask for an explanation. He didn't ask you for an explanation; the execution is here, the execution will answer.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0641par0075	There's a feasibility and a CED report, and it's a big project.
tbmm-2018-12-19sit06spe0640par0076	Talks on Article 13 have been completed. I submit the article to your votes: those who accept Article 13... those who do not accept Article 13... Article 13 is accepted. Congressmans, today's talks have been completed according to our schedule. According to the programme, it is Thursday (December 20, 2018) 11 p.m. to vote on the unvoted articles of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019 and the Articles of the 2017 Central Management Bill of the Instrument Act. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
