tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're going on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0002par0005	Mr. President, I'd like a word on the procedure, sir.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0001par0006	Dear Islam, here you go.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0002par0009	Thank you, sir. The first incident is that even though I am running for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Parliament television, which belongs to you, has not mentioned my name. I want this situation corrected immediately, and I want all MPs and all our citizens to know about it. The second issue, sir, is that we've been working together for about a week here.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0003par0012	Can't hear it. Please...
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0002par0013	Can you put it in the microphone, sir?
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0003par0014	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. The first incident was that even though I was running for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Parliament television in your presidency did not mention my name as a candidate. I demand that this be corrected immediately, and I demand that the election be passed after this. Second incident: We've been here for about a week with other members, and I've seen almost 80 percent of them for the first time. I'm sure it's the first time they've seen me or any other candidate. My request is that you start a process, a tradition. Let the candidates come out here at least ten minutes to introduce themselves, and it's clear who our members are voting for here. My compliments to all of you, and good luck to my other candidate friends. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0004par0020	Dear Islam, thank you. The corrective correction has been made regarding the first issue, and the document will arrive shortly. As for your second request, the House does not have such a challenge, so I'd like to continue with the Oagelen team. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0005par0024	Every mission has its beginning, Mr. President, and I say you start it.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0006par0025	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0004par0026	Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0006par0028	And I salute the General Assembly. Of course, the procedural debate is yours, and I don't mean to interrupt, but in our view, the dignity of this Parliament is undoubtedly meaningful, it is valuable, and it is expected that there should be no will above the will of the voter. Unfortunately, our Hakkari MP, Leyla Güven, was elected, but is not here today. Despite the need for an evacuation, the practices in the past have been known, neither Leyla Güven nor Enis Berberoglu are on the General Assembly today. We would like to bring this to the attention of the public, especially to your attention, because there is no weakness, no lack of representation in Parliament, as the will to choose democracy's dignity, credibility comes out of the chest. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0007par0031	It's Mr. Engin Altay who wants a word. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0008par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a request to present two issues before the election of Speaker of Parliament to the discretion of the General Assembly, thank you for that, sir. The first is that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has completed the oath ceremony of the 27th term, has been restored, with a democratic election to elect the President of Parliament today. But as Mr. Ayhan Bey has just said, the fact that two members have failed to take the oath is also unpleasant for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that they are not able to vote in the presidential election today. Parliaments such as these are called Parliamentary Parliaments. In this regard, I personally benefit from your presidency's public opinion on this matter. The second issue, sir, is that the Supreme Assembly of the National Palaces of Turkey and various palaces, mansions, brawns, including the hospitality of our MPs, as it is known. The purpose of giving national palaces to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is because of the writing on the back of your seat; that is, the republic and its sovereignty were stripped of its sovereignty, given to the people, to the nation. With this decree, the transfer of the national palaces back to the palace, the position, the opinion, interpretation, opinion, interpretation, opinion, opinion, opinion, and interpretation of the First Assembly's Justice and Development Party -- then the People's Democratic Party, then the National Party of Action, then the People's Garden, then the position of Mr. State Garden, then the PARTI. The court, which constitutes the House of 600 members of the People's Council, gives them the will of the nation. The national will has to prove today whether or not he will surrender the will to the court on the day the court is taken. The system has changed, that's it, that's it.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0009par0038	Who elected the president?
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0008par0039	But it's a shame, a shame, a lie, that this House binds the national palaces to Fivepe. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0010par0042	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, you asked for a promise.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0011par0044	Mr. President, with the new legislature, I'd like to share with all lawmakers here in front of the Parliament a shame where Mr. Naci Cinisli, a member of the PTA, lives. Mr. Naci Cinisli resides at the TEDAŞ guesthouse by making reservations. When he went to the guesthouse on the night we were sworn in at the House, he was told he couldn't stay there anymore and needed to clear the room. I have a reservation, and I have nowhere else to go. I'll stay here. Upon his insistence, he didn't get the key to the room. Later, he had to wait in the car when he said the matter was settled after we announced it on social media, because he was not given the key to the door of his room, and his belongings were not allowed to be removed from his room. When he asked why, he was first informed that Mr. General Manager of TEDAS, who did not answer, could not remain there. When he asked, "Is it just a good party?," all opposition MPs will not be staying at the TEDAŞ guesthouse. He has received the answer. Is that possible, sir, when our congressman presented the situation when he was waiting in the car at ten o'clock at night waiting for the minister to leave? No way... take care of it when you're with the head of TEDAS. Our congressman goes up to his room, this time the officer who comes in says we're going to change your room. It's 12 o'clock at night. What room will you leave it in? We haven't found it yet, but we'll put you in a room where we found it. Get out of here. He says. Under the circumstances, our congressman was forced to leave his room and was thrown out of the TEDA Hospital with his belongings. The law has passed those who will stay in the guesthouses. What right have we to have our congressman thrown out in the middle of the night? I have not received an answer from Mahir Ünal, vice president of the Justice and Development Party that I have reached, but I would like to present to you here that we would like to be a public and parliamentary followers of this matter, as well as to the resignation of the president-in-chief of TDAŞ, who has done so. My respects.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0012par0048	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0013par0050	Mr. President, we are gathered today with a special agenda. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has parliamentary elections on its agenda. So we don't find it very right to argue about anything else, and I have to express it. But I do find it helpful to express our opinion on a couple of issues that have been said and discussed here. The first issue is the matter of national palaces. Now, members of the lawmakers, all the unmovables in Turkey that are in the saving of the public, belong to the treasury, so the area here, the land, where this Parliament building is, and the entire area within the General Assembly, belongs to the treasury, and the location of the Ashliye is to the treasury, and all the other public institutions belong to the treasury treasure. So it's all about the government, the nation. Periodically, various arrangements can be made regarding their allocation. The people own the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the people own the Külliye, and the people own the presidency. Sir, the palaces belonged to the Parliament, and now they're bound by Ashli. We think it's not right to bring this to a different discussion as an AK PARTY. The arrangements are made in accordance with the need, period after period, and period after period review. So these are issues that are taking place in life and Turkey according to developments. In other words, the matter of the oath. We would like all MPs to be sworn in by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. At this point, it is not our defense that a congressman or two MPs do not swear here. But the point is that Turkey is a state of law and is running law in Turkey.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0014par0053	Is there a law? Which law? Don't tell stories.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0013par0054	According to legal requirements, according to legal grounds, Turkey's Grand National Assembly and -- as of now you're running it -- the decisions you've made, and the decisions that will be made after that -- are made according to this rule of law, based on the law. There can be no savings on this, nor any other party's savings. Turkey must act on the requirements of the law, and the judiciary has practices at this point. That's the way it is at this point, tomorrow, there will be legal developments, there will be different developments, then there will be no problem with their oaths, they'll take their income vows. So our approach to the issue is within the framework of the law, and none of us should ever miss this: Turkey is a state of law and all practices are carried out within the framework of the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0015par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0016par0057	Mr. Engin, come in.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0017par0058	Let's take a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0015par0059	Mr. Turan, you can manage from there! But please let's not go too far with this. Here you go. Mr. President, Mehmet Mush has made a mockery of my speech from my position, and if you appreciate it, you have to promise me from there or I have to explain my position.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0018par0063	Please talk from here and let's move on.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0015par0064	Okay.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0018par0065	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0015par0067	I'd like to point out that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the lawmaker, the legislature, the place where laws are made. It is I, I am convinced that a member of this Assembly, as well as a member of the 1st party's deputy leader of the group, has made it clear that the amendment to the Constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be associated with the state of the law, as usual, as well as the Grand General Assembly. Yes, I understand your commitment to the leader, with the party's belonging, to defend the savings of the leader, but please, have a little understanding of the people's savings. This nation has given us, all of us, as legislatures, Mr. President, not to give your authority to one man. The other jobs are done, the thing about running, this is, I'm not saying anything, people have an appreciation in the middle. But again, I'm also interested in the opinion of other political parties in the House of Parliament about the commitment of national palaces to the President, and I'm sure it's public opinion. So silence comes from a plea. If other political parties aren't making an assessment of this, I'm confirming and agreeing to the savings. Let me tell you something else. When both lawmakers in prison applied for parliamentary candidacy, the republic's prosecutors gave them documents saying, "Yes, you have a license to run." With that document, the YSK has accepted these friends as deputy candidates. Again, I'd like to express my regret that my dear colleague has presented this as a very natural thing. Where two members of a House cannot be sworn in, there is no mention of the state of law. I do, sir.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0019par0072	Congressmans, Mr. Ayhan has asked for a promise, and for the last time, I promise him, and then I'll be on the agenda. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0020par0075	Mr. President, of course, it's imperative that the terms of the statement be interpreted as calm, naturally, in the name of our party, or the public will have a false perception. In law states, the hierarchy of norms is very clear. At the top comes the constitution, then the laws, then the decrees and other regulations. The amendment of constitutional institutions with a decree is never a state of law, even if it is authorized to act, requires a constitutional amendment. Thus, not only is it the subject of palaces, but many other matters have been changed by decrees for several days. This is clearly an anti-law attitude, an approach; we don't think it's right, our party rejects this approach.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit01spe0019par0079	Congressmans, this is the anniversary of the genocide in Srebrenica, Bosnia and Herzegovina, on July 11, 1995, 23 years ago. The pain of killing the woman, the elderly, the young, the child, at least 8,372 Bosniak ▪ without being identified by the Republika Srpska army remains fresh in our memories. Since this genocide took place in this region, which has been declared a safe zone by the United Nations and has been established as a peacekeeping force, I would like to point out that there are lessons to be learned by international organisations and states worldwide. I pray for God's mercy to those who have lost their lives in the Holocaust, and curse the perpetrators of the genocide. I wish such genocide would never happen again. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 12/07/2018 on Thursday (today), the following proposals have been approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. On Thursday (July 12, 2018) the Grand National Assembly continued its work until it was elected president of TBMM, and on Friday (July 13th 2018) on Friday (July 2018). It has been suggested that the work on the agenda be discussed by meeting at 00. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. According to our agenda, we will choose the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are motions to run for president, and I'm putting it through the application order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to run for president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the first half of the 27th term under Article 10 of the 94th and TBM Council of the Constitution. I'll give you what you need with my right hand. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 94, and Article 10 of the Constitutional Court of Turkey, the first quarter of the 27th period is the nomination and the candidacy of İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım, who is running for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With all due respect. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Müş Bült Turan Özlem Rich Cahit Özkan Mehmet Mehdi Eker Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Mustafa Elitaş Serkan Bayram Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our presidential candidate for the election of the President of Turkey's Grand National Assembly in the first legislature of the 27th term is İstanbul MP Şurktin Nuhoğlu. For your information. With all due respect. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I want to run for the first half of the 27th period, under Article 10 of the 94th and 10th amendment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With all due respect, it's the right thing to do. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Articles 10 of Constitution 94, I am running for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the first quarter of the 27th period. I'll give you what you need. Yours truly. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Articles 10 of the Constitution's 94th and TBM Council, the first quarter of the 27th period is the nomination of İstanbul MP Erdogan Ürtü Ürtüm in the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We demand and demand what we need. With all due respect. Engin Altay Free Engin Özkoç Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Article 10 of the 94th and TBM Council of the Constitution, the first quarter of the 27th term is the nomination and the candidacy of Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş, who is running for President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With all due respect. Fatma Survivan Ayhan Bilgen Ayşe Acar Başaran Garo Paylan Ridvan Turan Kemal Peköz Murat Çepni Hakı Saruhan Oluç Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Suryet Dilan Taşdemir [[Applause from HDP rows]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Mr. Nazır Jahangir, MP of İstanbul, I nominate Islam to be President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With all due respect, I do. It has been presented to your knowledge. I'm reading the candidate names for the Speakership as they appear on the sealed ballot according to the alphabetic order of the electoral circles: [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Siirt]] Members of parliament, under the fourth joke of Article 94 of the Constitution, the election of the President will be held by a secret vote. In order to be elected president, the first two votes will require at least two-thirds of the total number of members -- at least 400 votes -- and the third vote will call for at least 301 votes. If the third vote cannot hold a majority, the fourth vote will be held for the two candidates who won the most votes, and the most eligible candidate in the fourth vote will be the President. I propose how the secret vote will be held: the clerks during the Commission to the right of the Diva, starting from Adana to Denizli, including the sea, and from Diyarbakır to İstanbul, including Istanbul -- from İzmir to Mardin, and from Mersin to Zonguldak -- will sign the names of the MPs with a sealed ballot, and will mark the names of the MPs from the book. The MP who will use the vote will enter the voting booth after receiving the sealed ballot and the envelope, whichever candidates on the ballot will vote for, mark the square in front of the candidate's name with a cross sign and place the ballot in the envelope in the cabin, and then throw it in the ballots placed in front of the Presidential Court stand. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to show the necessary sensitivity at the point of the vote's secrecy. I would like to point out what the members of the vote will be paying attention to: when voting, the square will be marked in front of only one of the candidates on the ballot. The ballots marked by multiple candidates will be invalid. Same color pens are placed in the cabins. The members will use these pens. The vote will be invalidated if there are any signs, signatures or doodles on the ballot, except for the square in front of the candidates' names. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Let the sealed ballots and envelopes be delivered to the members of the clerks. Congressmans, I'm detecting a five-man commission with a name drawn up for the count and transcript of the vote. The members of the draft commission will take their place in the commissions after the vote is completed. Mr. Hawk Tin, Denizli? Here. Mr. Aytun Çıray, İzmir? Here. Mr. Utku Cakirözer, Eskişehir? No. Mr. Ahmet Berat Çonkar, Istanbul? No. Mr Muhammad Naci Cinisli, Erzurum? Here. Dear Metin Bulut, Elizığ? Here. Mr Muhammad Mufit Aydın, Bursa? Here. And after we've set up the commission... Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any lawmakers who don't use the game? The vote is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. Rereading the names of the members of the Commission: Şahin Tin, Denizli; Aytun Çıray, İzmir; Muhammad Naci Cinisli, Erzurum; Metin Bulut, Elazığ; Muhammad Müfit Aydın, Bursa. [[The selection of votes has begun.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've taken names for the formation of the Commission for Accounting, and we've seen that one of the names is here, but it's not here right now. So I'm going to try to complete it by taking a name -- let's hope it's here -- one member is missing. Huda Kaya, Istanbul. [[The split of the votes continued]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 581 members participated in the first round of the first round of voting for the first legislature of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The distribution of the votes used is shown below. It's presented with respect. Falcon Tin Huda Kaya Muhammad Naci Cinisli Metin Bulut Muhammad Mufit Aydın İstanbul MP Nazır Jahangir İslam : 4 İstanbul MP İştin Nuhoğlu : 43 İstanbul MP Erdogan Ürk : 134 İzmir MP Bali Yıldırım : 331 Siirt MP Meril Danış Beştaş : 65 Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, the first round of the election of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was not held with a majority of two-thirds of the vote envisioned in the Constitution. Members of parliament, we will now begin the second round of voting for the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this vote, the total number of members will be two-thirds, or at least 400 votes. Members of parliament, I made the rules regarding the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote in the first vote. I believe the necessary sensitivity will be shown. Now, I'm going to draw up a name for the count and transcript of the vote, and I'm going to identify a five-man Commission. The members of the Commission will take their place in the commission's ranks after the vote is completed. Osman Nuri Gülaçar, Van? No. Cevdet Yilmaz, Bingöl? No. Sevda Erdan Kılıç, İzmir? No. The children of Hathim, the children of Tulay? Orç, Adana? No. Hope Dikbayr, Sakarya? No. What's missing, Igdir? No. Tuba Vural Multinal, Antalya? No. Baha Celebrity, Osmaniye? Here. Orhan Erdem, Iconya? No. Oğuzhan Kaya, Çorum? No. Desire Erdem, Istanbul? Here. Cemal Taşar, Bitlis? No. Zahra Taşkesenlioğlu, Erzurum? No. Vital Printer, Rize? No. Tacettin Bayır, İzmir? Here. Sibel Özdemir, İstanbul? Here. Volcano Bozır, Istanbul? Here. With ad shoot, the Commission of Accounts is complete. Congressmans, please give envelopes and sealed ballots to the clerk members for the second vote. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is over. Let's raise the ballots, please. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I am rereading the names of the members of the Commission: Baha Güçlü, Osmaniye; Arzu Erdem, İstanbul; Tacettin Bayır, İzmir; Sibel Özdemir, İstanbul; Volcano Bozır, İstanbul. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first half of the 27th Legislature was shown below by 584 members who participated in the 2nd round of voting for Turkey's Grand National Assembly. It's presented with respect. Baha Celebrity Desire Virtue Tacettin Bair İstanbul MP Nazır Jahangir İslam : 4 İstanbul MP İşktin Nuhoğlu : 42 İstanbul MP Erdogan Üç Üç: 131 İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım : 336 Siirt MP Meril Danış Beştaş : 65 According to this result, two-thirds of the vote envisioned by the Constitution have not been found in the second round of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's election. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit02spe0019par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the election of President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, we will now begin the third vote in the election of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If the third vote cannot be met with a majority, the 4th vote will be held for the two candidates who have received the most votes from this vote and will be the most elected candidate in the 4th vote. Members of parliament, I made the rules regarding the vote and the necessary explanations for the secrecy of the vote in the first vote. I believe the necessary sensitivity will be shown. Now, I'm going to draw up a name for the count and transcript of the vote, and I'm going to identify a five-man Commission. The members of the Commission will take their place in the commission's ranks after the vote is completed. Yücel Cloud, Slap? No. Mustafa Demir, Istanbul? No. Inspiration Özcan Aygun, Tekirdağ? No. Kenan Sofuoğlu, Sakarya? Here. Yasar Kharpınar, İzmir? Here. Transport Karasu, Sivas? Here. Hüseyin doesn't run, Şırnak? Here. Ahmet Çolakoğlu, Zonguldak? Here. Five members complete. Congressmans, please submit envelopes and sealed ballots for the third vote to the clerk members. Congressmans, we will now begin the vote in Adana province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Is there a member who can't use the game? No. The vote is over. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I'm rereading the names of the members of the Commission for Accounting: Collection Commission: Ahmet Çolakoğlu, Zonguldak; Çalat Karasu, Sivas; Kenan Sofuoğlu, Sakarya; Yaşar Kırpınar, İzmir; Hüseyin Koşmaz, Şırnak. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of the Council, the Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 584 members participated in the third round of voting for the first half of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the distribution of the votes used was shown below. It's presented with respect. Ahmet Çolakoğlu Çalaş Karasu Kenan Sofuoğlu İstanbul MP Nazır Jahangir İslam : 5 İstanbul MP İşktin Nuhoğlu : 40 İstanbul MP Erdogan Üç: 135 İzmir MP Bazili Yıldırım : 335 [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Siirt MP Meril Danış Beştaş : 63 Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, Smyrna MP Mr. Buli Yıldırım has secured the estimated majority of the Constitutional Assembly and has been elected President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by 335 votes; congratulations and congratulations on their success. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Mr. President would like a word of thanks. Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit02spe0021par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I pray that our 27th term legislature will be good for our nation, for our country. I want to thank you all for choosing me as the 28th President of our Veteran Assembly. At the beginning of my words, the First Assembly members of the First Assembly, who have allowed the national will to rise up in the spirit of independence and sovereignty, in many trials and impossibility, and I say to them, "Let their souls be blessed and their places be paradise, especially the first President of the Turkish National Assembly, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our Veteran Assembly has been given important duties and responsibilities during this period. As you know, with the June 24th elections, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is starting legislation along with its new management system. At this time, the duties of the High Council have increased much more. With legislatures and audit duties, our House will also implement the laws our country needs, while it will evaluate the legal demands of our country, which allow the president and his cabinet to make it more effective and efficient. The New Age Assembly has been able to further develop its culture of reconciliation in light of the constitutional amendment. Because almost all of our voting citizens have been able to represent themselves under this great House of Assembly. The new era has brought justice to the legislature in its implementation of trust and stability, as well as to the legislature. As it is known, the new era does not have the authority to send a bill to parliament outside the budget bill. In other words, the authority to make laws will be entirely owned by the Parliament and our valued MPs. This makes the legislature much more important. It will be possible to effectively implement mechanisms such as parliamentary research, parliamentary investigation, written question motions, general assessment in the new era. In my term of duty, I want you to know that I will fulfill my responsibility for legislature and auditing activities that meet our nation's expectations, and for the demands of our lawmakers towards their districts, to keep their problems on the agenda, and to keep them active in the eyes of the government. In our work, our guide will be the will of our nation, our Constitution, and the Civil Law. I would like to thank all lawmakers who have contributed to my election, of course, to the AK PARTY Group, the National Movement Party Group, which has clearly expressed its support, its will. I'd like to be known that I'm going to be president of all lawmakers who vote or don't, and I'd like to salute you all. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I want to thank our Parliament Speaker, Ismail Kahraman, who served in the Supreme Assembly during the previous legislature. Also, as the oldest member of the 27th century, I wish immediate healing to Mr. Deniz Baykal of Antalya MP, who is expected to conduct these mergers, but is unable to comply due to his alibi. I thank Mr. Durmus Yilmaz, who was the oldest member of the Legislative Assembly from the very first moment of the legislature, as the oldest member of the House, to whom a fine Parliament governs; and on behalf of all the MPs and our nation, I thank him. (EC PARTY AND GOOD PARTY) I'd also like to thank our Deputy Village Congressman Hakkı.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit02spe0022par0064	To the arrested MPs...
tbmm-2018-07-12sit02spe0021par0065	Sir?
tbmm-2018-07-12sit02spe0022par0066	Do you have a message for the arrested MPs, Mayor?
tbmm-2018-07-12sit02spe0021par0067	If you'll bear with me, Tanal, we've said more in the name of God. You've begun to dive! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, of course, in the new era, no doubt all members of the High Assembly, all MPs, will strive to serve in the best way that our country, our nation's expectations. Our goal -- our valued lawmakers -- will be to oversee the interests of the country and the nation under this lofty roof, to make arrangements that are needed for the administration to do its tasks more effectively, and also to manage it on behalf of the national will. So I'd like to thank all of my deputies in advance for their contribution at this time. Of course, a public vote on April 16th was passed from the parliamentary system of our 90-year-old republic to the presidential system. As the last Prime Minister of the Parliamentary system, as the first Speaker of the new system, I wish you all the best of luck in your duties to Mr. President and Cabinet, who began as a result of the June 24th elections. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our coming to this day has been active in many matters. This Parliament is where the foundations of the republic are laid. This Congress is where the republic was founded. This Parliament is the great roof of our lawmakers, who bravely resist the coups. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On the night of the 15th of July, no party saw the difference, this Parliament stood open. Despite the bombings, this Parliament has managed to resist the coups without compromise, without prejudice, without prejudice, that sovereignty belongs to the nation. We'll reminisce on Sunday, the 2nd year of July 15th. To all our martyrs who willingly gave their lives for the unity of our country and for the unbreakable integrity of our nation, I pray to God for our martyrs on the 15th of July, their place will be paradise, and all our veterans have a good life. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank my wife, Ms. Semiha, and all the family members who have contributed to many sacrifices in my coming to this day. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute you all with love and respect. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-07-12sit02spe0023par0080	[[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY rows, applauses from MHP and GOOD PARTY rows]] It's Friday, July 13, 2018, 15 p.m., to discuss business on the agenda. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
