tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We will begin negotiations with the Executive Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and with the Computational Accounting Bill of the 2017 Centre Management Act. Commission? He's in position. Congressmans, the Commission Reports have been suppressed and distributed by 10 and 11 rows. We're going to talk now.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have a statement to make.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0001par0012	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0002par0013	In accordance with Article 59 of the Civil Code, I demand an off-the-book statement.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0001par0014	Dear friends, today we have started our meeting with the special agenda of budget talks, so I did not approve your request for an off-the-tops word. We continue our meeting.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, your discretion may not be made under your authority, but in this case, I have the right to...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0003par0017	Let's move on, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0002par0018	I'd like to open a debate on the procedure according to Article 63.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0004par0019	Yeah, we're moving on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0002par0020	Mr. President, I'd like to start an argument about the procedure.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0004par0021	Now, on behalf of the administration, we're about to make a budget presentation...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0002par0022	Mr. President, we have a request for a speech on the procedure, and you're going to have to open up a formal debate.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0004par0023	I give my word to Treasure and Finance Minister, Mr. Berat Colonel.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0002par0024	Mr. President, you're going to have to open up a legal debate.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0004par0025	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0005par0027	Mr. President, I salute your esteemed deputies, your grand delegation, and our great nation who listens to us on the screen. The 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the Talks on the Plan and Budget Commission of 2017's Final Account Law, you know, were finally completed. First of all, I would like to thank the esteemed president and members of the Plan and Budget Commission for all their work, my fellow ministers, and representatives of the public administration who have contributed greatly to this process. Today's speech will consist of macroeconomic developments, the final account of central management in 2017, the central management budget in 2018, the central management budget in 2019, public financing, income policies and practices. Mr. President and the valued deputies, first of all, I'd like to share with you my assessment of macroeconomic developments. He performed strongly in the global economy, production, investment and international trade in 2017. Economic activity has also made a strong start in the year 2018, but has suffered a relative loss of momentum from mid-year to the apparent short-term risks. This loss of momentum is particularly due to growth performances that differ in developing countries. While the United States and Japan economies have shown a positive outlook, concerns about the budget deficit and public debt stock in Italy, uncertainty from Brexit, and concerns about implementation of customs tariffs from the United States and economic growth in the eurozone could slow down at this point. International organisations, such as the IMF, OECD and the World Bank, have revised global growth projections in 2019, as well as geopolitical risks and tightening financial conditions. With increasing protection speech, international trade is losing speed. In 2017, 5.2 per cent global trade volume is expected to expand by 4.2 per cent in 2018, while in 2019 it is expected to expand by 4 per cent. Increased employment in developed countries, tax reductions in the United States and financial conditions, which are still supportive, have a positive impact on economic activity. Advanced economies are expected to grow 2.4 per cent in 2018, while 2.1 per cent in 2019. The U.S. economy divides positively between the growth performance and the developed countries. The US economy is estimated to grow by 2.9 per cent in 2018 and 2.5 per cent in 2019. In the eurozone, economic growth reached its highest level in the last decade by 2.4 per cent in 2017 is expected to grow by 2.9 per cent in 2018, in 2019. Financial conditions, which are tightened due to restrictions on global trade and the rise in interest, are expected to negatively affect developing countries. Therefore, the growth performance of developing countries in 2018 shows dissolution based on their financial vulnerability. Recent oil prices will also negatively affect oil exporters in particular. In 2017, growing 4.7 per cent, developing countries are expected to grow at the same rate in 2018 and 2019, due to strong domestic and external demand that balances low-profile risks. China is expected to perform a more moderate growth performance, depending on the commercial tension with the United States and the structural transformation process in the economy. The Chinese economy is expected to grow 6.6 per cent in 2018, while 6.2 per cent in 2019. Since 2016, oil prices have risen to the level of $85/varil year-on-year due to increased demand, geopolitical risks, production restrictions and sanctions for some oil exporters countries. In recent times, the slowdown in the global oil demand and the US grants temporary exemptions to eight countries including Turkey, including the sanctions related to Iran's oil exports have been effective in reducing the oil to 60 dollars. After the first quarter of 2018, the growing global trade tension, the tightening monetary policy of the Central Bank Fed, and capital currents for developing countries have lost momentum with the strengthening of the dollar. In the coming period, economic growth is expected to slow down, commercial tensions decrease, and the European Central Bank and the Central Bank of Japan are expected to extend monetary normalisation to time. This framework predicts that capital currents for developing countries will continue but will take place under the last few years. As for the coming period, trade tension, increase in financial fluctuations and rising debt costs are the risk factors that will put pressure on the global economic outlook. With increased risk perception in financial markets, favourable financial conditions will gradually continue to tighten. In the middle term, low risk factors in terms of the global economy maintain weight. Mr. President, the precious representatives, the internal and external shocks we've had over the past few years have affected our macroeconomic stability. In 2017, we received 7.4 per cent of the growth performance, due to the fiscal measures we put in place to stimulate these shocks, supporting macro-preservation policies, loans provided through the KGF and positive external conjuncture. With this growth performance, Turkey has become the fastest growing country among the G20 countries. In the first half of 2018, Turkey's economy grew by 6.2 per cent and continued its strong course despite many uncertainties on the global and local scale. In the first half of the year, strong contributions from consumption and investment channel have been decisive in continuing positive outlook on the growth side. From the second quarter of 2018, international capital currents have slowed down with the decline of risk perception for developing countries and the FED's interest increases. In addition to our need for foreign financing in the process, the country's risk premium has been raised as a result of speculative attacks on Turkey's economy and Turkish lira, and Turkish lira has lost value. With the aim of reducing these fluctuations observed in financial markets, fixing liquidity congestion, supporting financial stability and ensuring the effective functioning of markets, necessary measures have been taken for Turkish lira and currency liquidity. In this scope, several important steps have been taken, such as bringing 25 per cent of equity limits to banks' transactions, setting up blocking rates in deposit accounts, bringing export prices into the country and drafting contracts as exchanges in dollars. The effects of these measures on financial markets have been seen in a positive light. In the third quarter of the year, domestic demand has lost momentum, as foreign financing has declined, along with the surges in currency and interest. But with the measures we've taken and the balance policies we've implemented, we've minimized the negatives in the economy. We've balanced the recession in domestic demand with exports and a strong performance in tourism. According to our new Economic Programme, strict monetary and financial policies will be implemented, effectively managing the stabilisation process in the economy, minimising our risks due to inflation, current transactions and external financing. In this direction, we predict growth to be 3.8 percent in 2018 and 2.3 percent in 2019. In addition to strong growth in our economy, we have achieved a pretty good performance in employment under the influence of supporting labour force policies. The average annual increase in employment during January-August 2018 was 836,000 people. Thus, as of August 2018, the number of people employed reached 29 million. In this period, our incentives and policies for the labour market continued to contribute to employment increases. In turn, however, there has been some increase in unemployment rates as well as increased labor. As of August 2018, the headline unemployment rate was 11.1 per cent. Throughout the year 2018, we predict that the unemployment rate will increase to 11.3 per cent, due to the continued increase in labour market supply, the apparent economic stabilisation and the slowing domestic demand. Despite the slowdown in economic activity in the coming period, the improvements and policies we implement will continue to support the labour market and the economy. Energy and import prices, especially the increase in exchange rate in inflation since 2016, have been a determinant of strong demand growth with unprocessed food prices. In the second quarter of 2018, in particular, consumer and producer inflation has increased rapidly. The latest inflation figures have demonstrated the success of steps against high inflation and the All-Battle Programme for Inflation. The stabilisation process after the new Economic Programme has also begun to take effect in inflation indicators after the settlement and interest. As of November, consumer inflation was reduced by 3.62 points year-on-year to 21.62 per cent compared to the previous month. We will continue to support this process with a strong stance in our money and finance policies. We believe we will be able to achieve a strong performance in the fight against inflation, due to the lack of VAT discounts and an increase in energy prices, which will continue in December after November. In addition, the formation will sit on a more stable pathway, and the decline in oil prices will support the deflation process. Thus, we predict that we will be able to capture our goal in the year 2018 in YEP. The economy's stabilisation process is much more positive than we expected for foreign demand. In 2017, our annual exports rose to 157 billion dollars, despite growing protection and geopolitical risks in foreign trade, continued to increase in 2018, reaching its highest value in November, with $168.1 billion year-on-year, and hopefully, at the end of the year, it will also catch the $170 billion target. As of the first ten months of 2018, exports to our largest export market, the European Union economy, have increased by 15.5 per cent, creating 50.3 per cent of our total exports. The recovery of tourism has been effective in the fall of the current deficit. There have been significant increases in tourism revenues, depending on the increasing number of tourists. The number of foreigners visited our country reached record levels of 38.9 million people year-on-year in October 2018. Our tourism revenues reached $24.9 billion year-on-year in September. We believe that our country, which has become a center of attraction in its region, will move these figures much higher in the coming period. From May 2018, we see a very serious improvement in current balance. We will soon see that we will give more in October and November, after the overtime in August and September. Apart from gold and energy, which is described as a core current balance, the balance has continued to exceed this trend as of June 2018, and in September it rose to $5.1 billion. At the end of 2018 years, we expect the current deficit to drop below the $36 billion we predicted with the New Economic Programme. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have continued to support financial stability and the real economy, despite recent financial market fluctuations, the banking sector has maintained its healthy and strong structure. In addition, the framework we set up in the New Economy Programme is closely monitored the financial structures and active quality of banks and a comprehensive policy set to strengthen the sector's financial structure. The transformation rate is 3.5 per cent as of October 2018th, following loans that are one of the most important indicators of the active quality of the banking sector and show the sector's risk of credit. The capital efficiency rate was 18.2% at the same time. That is more than 12 per cent of the target ratio, more than 2 per cent of the legal limit. Given the risks and the slowing growth climate in the global economy, preventing Turkey's economy from being vulnerable to rapid changes in capital currents and geopolitical risks, this whole framework, strong stance is of enormous importance. In this framework, we take and continue to take steps to reduce high debt costs in the economic stabilisation process, to boost investors and consumer confidence, and to ensure the exchange rate dry stability. In this process, financial policies, budget discipline and increasing public savings are of great importance to strengthening macroeconomic foundations. Turkey has become a country on a global scale modeled in public finance with its fiscal discipline and cautious macroeconomic policies since 2002. We've reduced budget deficits and debt supplies to very low levels, thanks to reforms we've made in public finance since 2002. For the past 14 years, the overall state deficit has been less than 3 per cent of the unofficial domestic product rate, Maastricht Kriter, except for 2009, when the global crisis took place. Similarly, our public debt burden is at the lowest levels in history. The public debt stock, which was 72.1 per cent in 2002, was 28.3 per cent in 2017. In 2018, we supported public finance, financial space and the fight against inflation, while maintaining structural, conjunctural and social needs. During this period, important provisions to increase public revenues were implemented, decisions to save money in public costs have been made, contributing to fighting inflation with tax regulations. Meanwhile, investment, production, employment and exports have been provided with cash and tax incentives, strengthening revenue distribution and social justice. Economic and social incentives have created a certain amount of cost on financial balances. In the new Economy Programme, we have determined fiscal discipline as the basis of economic policy. We will lower the GDP rate by less than 2 per cent during the programme period, especially savings, with structural measures to implement, and the GDP deficit of central management. In this framework, we predict that the central management budget deficit, which took place at 1.5 per cent in 2017, would be 1.9 per cent in 2018 and 1.8% in 2019. Depending on that, in 2017, we intended the general state deficit, which was 1.8%, to be 2.4 per cent in 2018, and 1.6% in 2019. These are well below Maastricht Criters, 3%, and very low compared to the budget deficits of developed and developing countries. Similarly, the public debt burden is relatively low on the global scale. Over the past nine years, the GDP of public debt has averaged an average of 108 per cent in OECD countries, while an average of 42.3 per cent in developing countries at 88.2% in the eurozone. According to this, the public debt burden in Turkey is about one-quarter above the developed country's average, and about 11 points lower than the average of developing countries. Central administration final account in 2017: Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to share with you some of the sizes of the Final Account Bill of 2017. In 2017, budget costs amounted to $678.3 billion, GDP, $21.8 per cent; budget revenues amounted to $630.5 billion; foreign domestic revenues, 20.3 per cent; budget deficits of 47.8 billion; in the same way, GDP per cent; extra 8.9 billion non-interest; domestic product rate was 0.3%.3 per cent. The budget costs in 2017 increased by 5.1 per cent, according to the initial budget forecast, by 0.7 per cent, according to the forecast for the end of the year. Our budget revenues, however, have increased by 5.4 per cent, according to the initial budget forecast, by 3 per cent, according to the forecast for the end of the year. The deficit, which was originally estimated at $47.8 billion in 2017, was worth over $928m, but was under $13.9 billion in the year-end forecast. When we look at the budget of central management in 2018, our expectation of the year's end of this budget is: in 2018, we estimate that the central management budget costs will be $821.8 billion, budget revenues will be $749.6 billion, budget deficits will be 72.1 billion, and non-interest balance will be $4.3 billion. At the end of 2018 years, we estimate the budget deficit will be worth over $6.2 billion, with 72.1 billion euros. We estimate that this deficit is going to be 1.9 percent. If you look at the details of the budget costs, in 2018, we expect that the costs of personnel will be $200.3 billion, state premiums to social security institutions will be $34.4 billion, property and service costs of $69.3 billion, current transactions will be $323.1 billion, capital costs of $78.7 billion, capital transfers will be $17.3 billion, interest costs of $22.2 billion, interest costs of 76.4 billion.4 billion. When we look at the central management budget of 2019, we have prepared a budget that will be in line with the economic, financial and social goals announced by the New Economic Programme, which I shared with you earlier in my speech on the central management budget proposal. When we look at our budget budget in 2019, budget costs are $691 billion, costs out of interest, costs of $843.7 billion, budget revenues of $880.4 billion, tax revenues of $756.5 billion, budget deficits of 80.6 billion, extra 36.7 billion. Budget funds in 2019 increase by 26 per cent compared to 2018. This increase corresponds to about 198 billion TL. The increase in other pencils and reductions aside, the increase in only 4 pencils corresponds to 197 billion TL, which we can call the entire increase. One of these pens is staff costs, which are 30.6 per cent of the total budget spending. The cost of personnel increased by 35.6 per cent from last year to 216 billion 570m euros to 293 billion 678 million euros, due to the payment of the inflation difference to personnel in 2018, due to the payment of subcontractors. The second pen is a transfer to Social Security, which is 19.3% of the total budget costs. Transfers to the Social Security Agency increased by 36.5 per cent due to holiday bonuses, including an inflation gap for pensions and pensions in 2019, and increased from 135 billion to 684m euros to 185 billion to 160m euros. The third is the share of the income, which is 11.9% of the total budget costs. Due to the increase in revenues, revenues have increased by 27.2 per cent, increasing from 89 billion to 860 million TL to 114 billion 344m euros. The fourth is interest costs, which are 12.2% in total budget costs. The interest costs increased by 63.6 per cent compared to 2018 to 117.3 billion euros, due to the increase in interest costs and foreign debt interest payments due to the increase in interest rates and the increase in the exchange rate. The distribution of budget costs in 2019 according to economic classification is: personnel costs of $2247.3 billion, state premiums to social security institutions are $43.4 billion, goods and services purchase costs of $67.6 billion, capital costs of 54.4 billion, capital transfers of $10 billion, deposit costs of $10.7 billion, reserve funds of $7.9 billion, interest costs of $117.3 billion. Central management budget revenues will increase by 17.4 per cent to 880.4 billion euros; tax revenues will increase by 20 per cent to 756.5 billion euros, while non-tax revenues will increase by 4 per cent to 123.9 billion euros. When we look at the lower pencils of tax revenues in 2019, income tax was estimated at $171.9 billion, corporate tax of 74.2 billion, VAT 70.7 billion, private consumption tax of 162.6 billion, importing VAT 165.8 billion, stamp tax of $20.8 billion, tuition of 27.7 billion, bank and insurance services tax of $19 billion, motor transportation tax of $16 billion, other taxes of $26.8.8 billion. Mr. President, when we look at the basic properties of the budget of 2019, this budget will be the most fundamental supporter of the balancing process in the New Economic Programme. Finance policy, co-directed by monetary policy, will be governed in line with current and growing goals, especially inflation. One of the most important features of our budget for 2019 in line with the goals we set in the New Economic Programme is the savings budget. Especially since our infrastructure investments have reached its fullest, this is our primary savings area. On the one hand, savings prevented public resources from turning to inefficient areas, while protecting the rights of our officer, our worker, our pensioner. As in the previous years, we continued in the 2019 budget by increasing the resources we provided for women, children, young people, elderly people and disabled people. On the other hand, exports, technology production and tourism resources have not been fundamentally cut. As we announced in the New Economy Programme, starting with the budget of 2019, we will channel our resources to investments that will primarily increase exports, produce technological products, and reduce current deficits. In this scope, our earlier budget discipline and strict finance policy approach will continue to be implemented in 2019 without compromise. We didn't predict a one-time income-enhancing measure on the income side in this budget. One-time applications during the period will positively affect our budget. The most important feature of our budget is that it will contribute greatly to the economic stabilisation process that we desire with an average reduction of 20 per cent in capital costs. On the basis of one-time incomes, we did not include permanent expenses in our budget, and we again gave the largest part of our budget to education. Today, education is the prerequisite of qualified human power, scientific and technological development. AS THE EC PARTY governments did in the previous years, in 2019, we also devote the largest share of our budget to education. In 2019, we raise our education resources to 161 billion dollars. In this way, about 17 per cent of the budget costs are divided into direct education. In other words, we will have spent 21 percent of the tax revenues collected in 2019 on education. We care about health. With our reforms in the field of health, we improve the quality of health care we offer to our citizens and make it accessible to each of our citizens. In this regard, we also increased our health care expenses for the growth of spiritually and physically healthy generations. For this purpose, in 2019, we earmarked about 157 billion dollars in health from our budget. In 2002, we raised $11.3 per cent of health spending to 16.3 per cent in the budget in 2019. In 2019, we focus on investments to support the private sector's innovative and productive investments. In 2019, we allocate $65.1 billion to invest in the budget. During the time of our governments, we put more emphasis on local governments. In the presentation of public services, we have provided more tasks and responsibilities to local governments, making it more effective and efficient at the location of many services from the centre. As a result of this importance to local governments, the amount of funding for local governments has also been increased during our time in power. In this case, we increase our resources to $23.6 billion, increasing to 28.4 per cent from our major cities and other municipalities to our city's private administrations. Social benefits continue without slowing down. In the time of our governments, we've helped each and every social part of our country get a share of our prosperity growth through economic growth. We've implemented a lot of new practices that we can call reforms in the field of benefits, diversify social aid programmes. In this case, we've raised our social spending budget for 2019 to $62.1 billion. This amount corresponds to 6.5 percent of the budget for 2019. In 2002, however, it was only 1.3 per cent of the budget of that day, alone, and the share of the source was only 1.6 billion TL. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We continue to support agriculture. In 2019, the amount of resources we spent on agriculture, including investment funds from our budget, is 26.5 billion euros, and we're saving $5.1 billion for agricultural support programmes, $5.1 billion for agricultural sector investment payments, agricultural loan subsidies, investment buys, agricultural KCE funding, export supports and other agricultural benefits. We continue to support the Real sector. In 2019, we continue our growth strategy under the leadership of the private sector, and in this context, we spend 32.8 billion dollars on real-estate support from our budget. We continue to encourage domestic savings. Increased domestic savings is one of the key components of our government's economic policy. We aim to ensure sustainable high growth through increasing domestic savings. As you know, one of the steps we've taken to this goal is the direct state-of-the-art contribution system in the Individual Retirement System, where we've been transitioning as of 2013. In 2019, we earmarked $4.1 billion from our budget for a state contribution as part of the Individual Retirement System. At the end of 2019, the total state contribution from the budget would have reached $19.4 billion, and as of today, the number of participants in the Individual Retirement System has approached 7 million people and 87 billion euros in government contributions. We've improved the financial and social rights of our employees. Since the end of 2002, we have made serious improvements in the financial and social rights of our public officials, raised their living standards, and we will continue to improve them. During November 2002-2018, we increased our public officials' monthly and wages considerably over inflation. As a matter of fact, the lowest civil servant's salary, including family allowance, was raised to $392 in December 2002, while in November 2018, it was raised to $3,133 euros, and increased to 699 per cent. The average officer's salary, including family allowance, was raised from $578 in December 2002 to $3,806 in November 2018, reaching 559 per cent. The Mukhtar monthly was raised from $97 in December 2002 to $1,726 in November 2018, and the increase reached 1.673 per cent. The security guards' fees were raised to $236 in December 2002, while in November 2018, the increase increased to $1,727 TL to 631 per cent, and when we looked at inflation in the same period, it was 349.5%. As we look at the developments in the 2018 cash and debt management, the public's debt burden has been reduced to very low, thanks to financial discipline in our country over the past 16 years. The GDP rate of EU-defined general management debt is 72.1 per cent at the end of 2002, while the second quarter of 2018 is down to 29.2 per cent, at 81.5 per cent in the European Union Region, as of the first quarter of 2018. On the other hand, not only has the burden of debt been reduced during this period, but the debt is extended and the structure of the debt stock has been improved. The share of variable interest bonds in the central management gross debt stock has been significantly reduced from 51.1 per cent in 2002 to 23.8 per cent in August 2018th. Due to cautious macroeconomic policies implemented, the need for treasure debt has been reduced. It is planned to take place at 95 per cent, despite all financial attacks, at 110 per cent in the Treasury Finance Programme, which was announced for 2018. We distributed the negative air that was meant to be created by the powerful action steps we took against the speculative attacks against our country. The strong coordination and synergy that we've established with all of our institutions and institutions within economic management has been the main reason for success this period. With the measures we've taken against the Speculative attacks, we've managed to ensure that all of our shareholders get out of the process with minimal damage. Besides, we've broken down the negative trajectory of the indicators, and given more than a month, we've been the country that's come up with a positive dissolution of currency and CDS premiums among developing countries. At the end of this process, in the last October of the capital markets, we did a very successful bond export in dollars after six months. We've encountered more than three times the amount of export. At a time when the fluctuations in the global financial system are so high, this demand is more than three times the export rate is crucial to show the markets and investors' trust in our country's economic foundations. After this export, we again performed a rather successful bond export in euros in November. In this export, more than 200 ▪ investors have demanded more than three times the export amount. Finally, as part of the strategy for developing and deepening capital markets, we carried out the first and largest asset-based property export of Turkey last week. A total of 2.43 times of demand from 118 different investors, led by 4 banks, and a very important new financial liquidity infrastructure was created for 4 banks. Securities based on exported assets have been assessed by JCR Eurasia in the category, and its long-term rating has been identified as AAA. These successful bond exports, the steps taken and the New Economy Programme have shown how strongly our global financial environments respond. We've taken very strict and serious measures against temporary market fluctuation by reducing the amount of debt due to the market under effective debt management, reducing the amount of debt due to debt and revising the types of bonds according to market conditions. Within 2018, efforts for individual investors to expand the investment base and diversify investment instruments have been given speed, including exporting gold bonds and gold-based rent certificates within the country, and in the next very short time, another gold bond guaranteed rent certificate will be carried out. We believe that our citizens will be much stronger at these exports, which provide them with both interest and interest-free investments, which are guaranteed by the state. The Single Treasure Institutions Account, which will single-handedly take over the financial resources of public institutions, has been implemented on October 17th, and will be managed much more effectively and efficiently through the one account, with a single account of public cash resources and the Single Treasure Account, which will be expanded in the coming period, with a step-by-step increase of institutions. In this way, public debt and cash management will increase activities, lower public debt costs. A minimum savings of between $3 and $4 billion a year will be achieved because the only available cash reserves will be distilled with the most suitable financial tools. We've limited the limits set in the Central Management Budget Law and the risks that could be caused by Treasury guarantees and loan-taking commitments. Given the loan demands and projects envisioned in 2019 in the Budget Law, the Treasury guarantees and external debt agreement limit is 4.5 billion dollars and the commitment limit is also set at $4.5 billion. I've already committed to a loan of $15.4 billion for the 7 transport project. As of late June 2018, the treasury is now at the level of $14.1 billion. The potential impacts of the risks under the guarantees of the treasury and the commitments to debt are measured and closely monitored by various scenario analysis and tools, as well as the possible impacts of debt supply, sustainability and fiscal discipline. In 2018, projects in the annual Investment Programme of our public institutions and enterprises continued and our foreign financing efforts to finance the private sector through the banking sector. In this framework, the rest of the year 2018 provided a total of $1 billion,887 million, under the guarantee of repayment, and a total of $2 billion,70 million, which our ministry owes. When we look at income policies and practices, we've implemented a lot of regulations in the tax sector, especially in terms of the implementation of all of these frameworks and our basic policy priorities in recent years, especially for the incentive of production and production activities. We provided additional institutional tax and VAT support for investments in the manufacturing sector in 2017 and 2018. For these investments, we've increased the rate of investment by 15 points, we've managed to reduce the total amount of investment from other earnings, we've reduced the rate of discounted institutions to zero, allowing the VAT, which has been paid for construction spending, to be returned faster. The bill proposed by the Plan and Budget Commission also envisions the implementation of the above incentives for manufacturing industry investments in 2019. We support machine and equipment investments more strongly, and in this case, in manufacturing industry, we've made exceptions to VAT by the end of 2019 to new machinery and equipment purchases. We've excluded new machines and equipment purchases from VAT in RD, innovation and design activities. And again, in the manufacturing industry, in RD and design activities, and in new investment incentives, we've cut the amortisation period of machinery and equipment to be used. In an effort to contribute to economic resilience, we have reduced the VAT rate in housing and workplace deliveries to 8 per cent, 3 per cent of non-moving transactions, and we have extended the reductions, along with the reduction of the two, by the end of the year. By the end of the year, we've reduced the VAT rate of 18 per cent of furniture to 8 per cent, 6.7% of white furniture to zero. To be implemented by the end of the year, we have reduced 15 points per cent of the OTV rates of vehicles below 1,600 ccs per year, reducing the VAT rate for commercial vehicles as 18 per cent to 1 per cent. We've made very important arrangements to contribute to the employment policies we're implementing and reduce unemployment. For every worker hired in 2018-2020, we receive all SGK bonuses and taxes on minimum wage for 12 months as a state. The woman's young and disabled employment benefits for 18 months. For those to be employed in the manufacturing and IT sector, SGK bonus support can be increased to 2.029.5 TL. For every young employee who will be first employed in the manufacturing sector in 2018, the total costs of $883 euro tax and premiums are covered by our state, including $1,603 TL, and the total cost of $2.486 Turkish lira is covered by our state. Mr. President, Dear Regents, we've made some very important arrangements to strengthen our taxpayers' voluntary fitness to the tax, and to show that we're with you in their difficult days as a state. We have given our taxpayers a 5 per cent reduction of the calculated income and institutional tax. In order to support our tax-compatible taxpayers, we have the opportunity to pay taxes by up to 60 months and low interest rates. We continue to support social and environmental policies with tax policies that we are implementing. So, in this context, we have permanently prevented the net minimum wage from falling below the amount set at the beginning of the term because of the tax rate. We made exceptions to the income tax of day care services provided to women's services by employers. In cases where there was no day care, we exempted half the monthly minimum wage from income tax. By disintegrating their second-hand vehicle at the age of 16, and above, by the end of 2019, we've given the owners of the car pulling out of traffic a discount of up to $10,000 in buying new cars from home. We've made it possible for domestic commercial transport vehicles and cargo transport vehicles to be renewed without paying special consumption tax until June 30, 2019. We continue to fight effectively with the off-the-books economy. We continue our planned struggle to reduce the off-the-book economy. We're setting up a new data and risk analysis centre within the Ministry of the IRS in order to increase the level of integration of the taxpayers and prevent unfair competition against the compatible taxpayers and encourage the registered economy. This centre will detect possible risk areas in taxation, with information from different data sources being obtained, as well as through the analysis of activities groups and sectors. We will continue our efforts to fight the informal economy even more strongly in the framework of a new action plan we intend to complete this year. Besides, we continue to promote electronic applications. We've made sure that almost all of our tax laws, including tax returns, collections, books, and documents, can now be carried out through electronic applications. In addition, we've moved our administrative procedures to electronics. With the e-contamination system we've built, we've delivered about 30 million notification documents electronically and saved about $300 million. We've put the book statement system into practice. In particular, we've implemented the book statement system, which allows the record of the taxpayers who keep books on the basis of the business account and the records of the taxpayers who are doing simple procedures to be kept electronically. In this scope, we aim to keep about 2.1 million in revenues and expense records electronically stored through the portal, and to fill them through user-friendly interfaces. So we reduce the cost of our small-scale taxpayers to fit in with the tax. We're making sure that our added value tax taxpayers quickly conclude their extradition demands. So in this context, we're putting together a lot of work to ensure that VAT returns can be done quickly and correctly. In addition to the services we've done before, we're starting a system that requires that 50 per cent of the VAT returns from VAT, which the sworn financial advisors have filed with the approval report, be returned without guarantees within the first ten work days, and the remaining amount be extradited by further control. We're activating the Center for Collective Services. We're restructuring the Customer Services Centre to further increase tax awareness and voluntary harmony through the understanding of tax issues, the information of the taxpayers about rights and homework. We're expanding the scope of the interactive tax office. We were able to move a lot of transactions, such as starting work by going to the tax office, into electronic media, and thus provide ease, speed and activity in tax transactions. According to the World Bank's report, Turkey rose 17 digits in the Doing Business Index in 2018 to 43rd place in the 60th place in the previous year between 190 countries. Turkey is among the countries making the most progress in terms of the ease of doing business, the report said. Mr. President, valuable deputies, we're increasing the number of agreements to avoid double taxation. We sign agreements to ensure that Turkish entrepreneurs continue their business, professional activities and invest in all kinds of investments without the risk of double taxing in other countries in a taxable and regulated environment; likewise, to prevent double taxation in order to ensure that foreign entrepreneurs and investors come to our country safely under the same conditions. The number of agreements signed within this scope has reached 90. 85 of them are in effect, while the approval process of other agreements continues. We will continue to implement our income policies in 2019, providing the necessary financial space to support the macroeconomic stabilisation process; in 2020 and 2021, we will continue to implement the need for public expenditures; in terms of providing financing, strengthening socioeconomic development and justice, boosting the economy's competitiveness at international levels and contributing to domestic savings. As part of our goals for income policies in the new Economy Programme, the precision protection of fiscal discipline in the coming period will be the primary goal of our economic policies. We will continue our work on a simpler, more efficient, broader-based and fairer structure and simplification of tax legislation with much faster and stronger steps. We will gradually remove the exceptions, exemptions, and discounts without the event, and we will not bring new exceptions, exemptions and discounts unless we have to. We will strengthen our taxpayers' level of tax compliance and speed up the transition to the registered economy. In terms of our income policies and an export-based and technology-based production model, we will further develop our economy's competitiveness by supporting qualified investments, added value production, employment and export-based growth. Mr. President, we have strongly supported investment, production, employment and exports with the economic policies we've conducted since 2002. By prioritizing growth and development in the economy, we have always observed the welfare of our citizens and the future of our country. In particular, we have managed to overcome a lot of internal and external shocks, particularly the July 15th traitorous coup attempt, thanks to the right steps we've taken in public finance and in banking, against fluctuations. After the stabilisation of the economy during this period, structural reform policies will continue to promote Turkey to a group of high-income countries, supporting its progress towards becoming a global power. In the 2019 budget, we will also have a basic principle of fiscal discipline, balancing will be the most fundamental supporter of this process. Our savings policy will be made permanent by structural changes. We've determined our most basic goals in public finance are goods and services, capital, investment and current transfers and reducing interest costs and increasing public revenues. In a different political structure or conjunctural, maybe it will last a few years, we have survived this period in about three or four months, God willing. With great performance, we've reached the indicators prior to the speculative attacks. In the last two months, we've been the most positively divided country in the world, with the advances we've made at CDS bonuses, interest rates. As a result of the speculative courtship attacks, we were able to pull back to 5.14 levels with the growing process of normalisation of the wolf up to 7,20. By the end of the year, we've been largely in the way of negative volatility. In two years' interest, we have reduced to less than 20 per cent of the 26 per cent of the 26 per cent, to 16 to 17 per cent of the five-year paper, and to 15 to 16 per cent of the ten-year paper. We've broken the rise to 45 per cent in loan interest, and we've come to a process that is now below 25 per cent in interest. The stabilisation process continues strongly in the direction of our goals. For 16 years, we've given this country huge services, huge reforms, and we've raised our economy more than four times as big. Turkey has grown up in a very strong performance in the last 16 years. Our exports of $36 billion in 2002 reach 170 billion by the end of 2018. Our GDP went from $236 billion to $851 billion. WHEN we look at the economic report card of the EC PARTY, we see this picture very clearly. Despite all these attacks on the conditions of the day, the AK PARTY authorities have always tried to reveal the best of what needs to be done, and in the end, it has always been in our nation's favor. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey must review and update everything from politics to economics to economics, economic production and consumption habits during this period when the paradigms of the global ecosystem change. That's why we've made the emphasis on change with our economic goals. We know very well where the global financial system has evolved and we're closely monitoring it, and when we looked at the last five years from May 2013, we saw from May 2013 that the policy rates were at the lowest in the history of the republic with 4.52 per cent, and we saw that these rates, especially at 70 per cent of them, have been reduced to those rates during the AK PARTI rule. All financial and macroeconomic indicators showed the best levels in the history of Turkey. He was going through a more convenient period of investment than ever before for industrial breakthroughs. He had a great path ahead of him, big goals. What has Turkey been through for the past five years in the framework of the plan and these plans that were launched in those days? The expedition, the 17-25 conspiracy, the attacks that ended the solution process, the terrorist state that was intended to be located just below our border, was created to disrupt the peace in the Middle East, with several attempts by the DEAS, and July 15th. We've tried to save this nation's freedom, this country's democracy, and we've worked much harder to make our economy strong, to get out of the process without being affected. So, to make this photo clearer, these interest rates, starting at 4.54, increased almost twice from 4.5 to 8.5, to 11 percent in the 17-25 coup attempt that immediately came into play. Turkey has fought against both three terrorist organisations simultaneously and has lit the fuse of the fight for economic independence on every front. AS AK PARTI rulings, as the Republic of Turkey's state, this fight will continue, and we will win it one way or another, and we will have our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0006par0132	Mr. Secretary, you have one minute.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0005par0133	In this struggle, as always, we believe only and only in the support of our nation. We've been through similar processes for the past four months. We've learned a lot from what we've been through in the last five years, but more importantly, our nation has had a great experience. These people are analyzing whoever said it or said it. We will continue to believe in our nation, to work for our nation, to fight for our nation, by continuing to perform a performance that the world's leading financial institutions bite fingers and cannot believe. And finally, I want to talk about the growth figures that were announced today. Turkey has entered the Stagflation. We've heard a lot of things like that. Despite such harsh processes in the global economy, Turkey has grown despite its 11,1,, base effect in the previous quarter, even during its history's largest courtship attack. According to data released by TÜİK today, Turkey's economy has grown by 1.6 in the third quarter of 2018 in reality compared to the same period of the previous year. Positive growth, recorded year-on-year during a time when we experienced negativity in the domestic and external conjuncture, shows that our confidence-building policy decisions are effective and that Turkey's economy remains stable. In the economy, the balancing process, which began in the second quarter of 2018, continues to be evident in the third quarter. In such harsh processes, Turkey has shown that it can provide soft transitions in the economy, that it can take a controlled path, and that the final domestic demand in this period has contributed to limited growth, while the strong appearance of exports and tourism revenues and poor imports contributed strongly to net external demand growth. The recent positive developments in financial markets and relative improvements in preliminary indicators clearly show that growth in the coming period will follow a sustainable path, as we predicted in YEP. As we have announced in the New Economic Programme, we maintain our policies uncompromising the total struggle with inflation, the reduction of discipline and the current deficit in public finance to sustainable levels. In order to increase the competitiveness of innovation and efficiency, we continue to edit our economic policies to support it, and by means of the economic stabilisation, discipline and sustainable growth that we will achieve through the process of change, we will increase the prosperity of all our citizens permanently, and a stronger Turkey will reach our final goal as soon as possible, and we will continue to move forward with much larger, much more strategic and structural steps. Finally, I have a debt of gratitude to the President and the Plan and Budget Commission, all of our ministers and our public administrations, who have contributed to the creation of the budget proposal. I want to thank you all for your hard work and your patience to listen. I salute your grand delegation, wishing that our budget of 2019 would be a blessing.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0007par0138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, budget talks will be held within the framework of the programme, which has been printed and distributed in accordance with the decision made in the 25th Union of the General Assembly, dated 4/12/2018. Initially, the talks on the entire budget will be promised 60 minutes by political party groups and by Article 62 of the Interior Charter, to express their opinion at will, which can be used by more than one speaker. Subjects will be talking in ten minutes. I now read the names of those who took the words on behalf of political party groups, executive and individuals all over the budget: Co-Chairs İstanbul MP Pervin Buldan and Van MP Mr. Sezai Temelli on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Chair of Chair and MP of İzmir Mr. Kemal Kildaroglu on behalf of the People's Movement Group; Group Chairs Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Mr. Muhammad Levent Bülbul on behalf of the Party of the Republican People's Party; Deputy Chair and Mr. Lütfkan Kılıçdaroğlu on behalf of the Turkish Party; Deputy Chairs of the Parliament on behalf of the Parliament; Deputy Chair of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of Parliament and the Parliament on behalf of the People's Party (CHP), Mr. Now, before I make the first promise on behalf of the groups, I promise Mr. Erkan Basak, the chairman of the Turkish Labour Party, to make a statement in place. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0008par0146	Thank you. Dear friends, of course, running the House is the most important task of all of us, and we are all trying to contribute, most effectively, to the people who chose us, to the work they have given us. We're having a budget meeting, and we all agree that this is an important title, since it's taken interest beyond the usual agenda of the House. In this title, we would like to express on behalf of our party the view of the budget of paid workers, workers, civil servants, unemployed, pensioners, pensioners, and pensioners, who make up 90 per cent of the society in Turkey. In this regard, we didn't just request a statement here, let's make it clear that after our General Assembly made this decision, Mr. President, we applied for a petition on behalf of the party. It's a very simple account, dear friends, this Parliament for the first time... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0009par0151	Please complete your statement, Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0008par0152	Thank you. There is something unique about our parliament this time, many parties and independent lawmakers without a group are represented in this parliament. Thus, the conditions for our friends to represent the masses, the opinions, the opinions of our people, were needed to be created here. Of course, the broader Civil Code requires a change, but the existing Civil Code can also be interpreted in this regard. Talks on behalf of individuals may give independent lawmakers and non-group parties a priority. Mr. President, my request for non-responsibility was primarily related to this work. You have the right to refuse, according to the Civil Code. He says he can promise. So you may not, but I have to respect that. However, according to Article 63, I have requested that the General Assembly discuss your attitude in accordance with Article 63. You have no initiative here for me. The charter says you need to open this discussion. So I'd like you to start arguing over the procedure and promise me three minutes against your attitude.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0010par0155	Yes, thank you. Dear friends, yes, there may be a request for a procedural debate, but Parliament Speakers have a decision dated April 7, 2016 to ensure unity in implementation. I read this decision: ▪ Demands for a procedural debate that will not be met in the presidential manner The requirements for a procedure debate on whether or not the regulations of the Civil Charter are clearly organised or established, will not be met by the presidential office. In this frame, I promised you a brief explanation, and now we're moving on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0011par0162	Mr. President, for the record, look, I've asked you to open a formal discussion, not a formal discussion. I think it's against the Civil Code. Also, I'm bringing this up again as a formal discussion of whether or not you open it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0010par0163	Thank you. Your speech is on the record. The first word for the groups now belongs to Peoples' Democratic Party Group Co-Chair and İstanbul MP Mr. Pervin Buldan. Here you go, Mr. Buldan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0012par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express our views as the People's Democratic Party on the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute you and everyone who watches us on the screen with respect and love. Before I speak, I would like to make a special note that Parliament has been met with one less because it is the chosen will of the people of Haqkari that Dear Leyla Güven is being held hostage in prison against the law. From here, I respectfully greet our beloved deputy Leyla Güven, Selim Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, Selma Irmak, Sebahat Tuncel, Çağlar Demirel, Gülser Yıldırım, Burcu Çelik, İdris Balikeni, Sırrı Sırrıyya Leader, Farhat Encu, Abdullah Zeydan, Gültan Kışanak, and all my friends who are held hostage. [[Applause from HDP rows]] On the wall behind us is the unconditionalness of the nation. Unfortunately, the fact that the chosen ones who should be in and out of this parliament today are being held hostage illegally in prisons shows that the sovereignty is not in the hands of the people, but in the hands of the powerful. Today the government system of the presidency, which is called the government system, is founded on denial and denial of differences. He's monotheist, centralist, nationalist, authoritarian and oppressive. It is based on the imposition of one man, not on democratic participation and plurality. He's not a liberal, he's a security guard, he's not acting on the rule of law, he's acting on the power of political justice that works on court orders. This regime aims to purge an ineffective parliamentary system and democratic politics. Only those who pledge allegiance to power have rights in the new regime. The Kurds, the ancient peoples of this land, the Alevis, the Armenians, the Suryans, the Oppressians, all faith and identity; women, young men, workers, and oppressed ones have no rights. Everyone will be equal in paying taxes, but when it comes to rights, there will be discrimination against identities and beliefs; that is the greatest injustice. The effect of authority on social, political, economic life is literally fascism. The regime strives to sustain its existence with fear, digestion, kneeling and polarization. Society is wanted to be accustomed to living with fascism. A society that doesn't answer, doesn't make demands, approves everything with a silent acceptance. Those who object, those who raise their voice, are between four walls, unemployment, poverty. Society is divided in emotion, in pain, in joy. Dissolution and polarization are moving towards dangerous dimensions. If one side rejoices in the pain of the other, it is the work of power. A racist attack on Aysel Tuğluk's mother's grave is just one example of the size of the other. Hope and longing for peace, freedom, justice are being tried to consume one hand of power, to bring down the community spiritually. Unfortunately, you can't see a single person on the street looking forward to the future. How can you talk about a good future in a geography where people stand at the door of the police, whose job, his bread, his job is taken away from him, every day a woman is murdered, young people are buried in the war, mothers cry, children are orphaned, justice is only on the walls, new prisons are built instead of factories, free media is silenced? Yes, AKP power is destroying hopes, dreams, joys, expectations, love and respect in this country. Imagine, 20,000 investigations have been launched against the President due to criticism. That's the number of a government that fears its own people. Can justice be expected from a 7-year-old child and the understanding that put 78-year-old Sise mother in prison? The peasants of Roboski, the workers of Soma, the workers of Sivas, the Alevis in Gazi, the women of Gezi, the women of the streets; a system of judgment that did not answer to the perpetrators of Sivas, the Berkins, the Ali Ismails, the Kemal Kurkuts, the Şenyurts, Suruç, and the perpetrators of Gar. The president's hundreds of fleets of vehicles were formed, as well as the judge's fleet. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the budget of the palace is being discussed here today, not by the people. The country painting may appear from the light windows of the palace to dust, but the picture of the people is pathetic. On one hand is poverty, unemployment, poverty, and poverty, and on the other hand, a sense of government that's squandering all the power and resources of the state. I ask you, if the Kurd is not as strong as the Turk, and Alevi is as Sunni as the woman, and the worker as the man, and the poor as the boss, and the poor as the rich as the law, and not the righteous as the strong are protected: where is justice in this? Where's equality and conscience in that? If there's a growing number of kids on the street without shoes, you should know that someone's getting rich. If the palace's glorious lights are uninterrupted, know that the bread he shares at the people's table is waning every day. If justice protects only the powerful and the powerful, then know that justice is being stolen from the righteous and the oppressed. If you're protecting power by calling it a state, you should know that it's being stolen from the back of society. If the lies have begun to take the place of the righteous, be assured that they are being stolen from the truth. We live together in a dark period of discrimination, where democracy is replaced by fascism, freedom is replaced by captivity, justice is replaced by lawlessness, equality is replaced by discrimination. But let it not be forgotten that those who sow the seed of fascism in this land will eventually reap rebellion and resistance. Congressmans, anyone with a conscience and a conscience should question this painting we live in. Turkey is experiencing the deepest, political, economic and social crisis in the history of the republic. This understanding of governance, which has the support of the public, says stability in each election, but has driven the country right into the midst of instability, coups and crises. There is no guarantee that the country and society will not face greater disasters with this system. Look, I'd like to take you not so much as four or five years before this to get this point right. A serious process for the democratic, peaceful solution of the Kurdish problem was launched in 2013, negotiations between the parties were held. I, too, am just one of those who are involved in the process, along with the leader of Sırrıyya and Idris Bauken. A very positive climate had begun in Turkey, and confidence and stability were growing, and democracy and freedoms were opening up. Everyone had hoped from Edirne to Hakkari, and the faith in peace and the will to live together had been strengthened, and more importantly, the deaths had stopped. In peace the sons bury their fathers, and in war the fathers bury their sons. So, with the solution process, the fathers no longer buried their sons, the mothers didn't cry. The process of resolving the Dolmabahçe agreement and the framework with the law was moving ahead, and the conflicting period would no longer remain. Look, I would like to take this opportunity to address the statements made in the name of power at the time, not the weapons, but the ideas, the politics. War is easy, peace is hard. We're the suitors of the difficult. At the moment, the Imralı is taking steps to respond to our expectations. • Prime Minister Erdogan, February 1, 2013. ▪ Ocalan assesses the real policy of the region and Turkey in better health. • Minister of Justice Sadullah Ergin of the period, January 25, 2013. What did Mr. Erdogan say about Mr. Ocalan's call in 2013? He said, "I see this statement, this invitation as a positive development." On February 28, 2015, President Erdogan said: "This is a call we have longed for." See what Deputy Prime Minister Arinc said in the process of resolving: let's go from power, but just as long as the solution process is successful, these tears are over, and these blood is no more shed. It's May 23, 2015. And that's where it all began, the matter of being in power. Under the influence of the June 7th resolution process, Turkey's people had drawn the democratic republic out of the polls in parallel with the possibility of peace, but instead of accepting the official ideology, democratic republic and peace demand, including AKP, as a historical transformation, it saw it as the end of the monotheist, guardian system, and at the same time, a Turkish crisis. The AKP, which sees the solution process as an obstacle to today's only man's regime and Syrian policy, has knocked over the ruling solution table and pave the way for the conflicting process. Today was established on the night of June 7th, called the Cumhur Alliance, to finish the solution itself, to reshape the monogamous state structure. The process of tipping the table was launched on April 5, 2015, with a lockdown on Mr. Ocalan. Everyone knows what happened with the process being over. Erdoğan said, "If necessary, we will drink hemlock poison." The government ended the solution process and fed the hemlock poison to society. The completion of the process also paves the way for the coup attempt on July 15th. Mr. Erdogan said that on July 15th, Allah's grace was understood after that. The coup attempt was given the opportunity to officially coup democratic politics and social opposition. It was a coup attempt against the AKP on July 15th; it is true; the process, which began with the State of Emergency declaration on July 22nd, is a coup to democratic politics of AKP power. The removal of immunitys; the capture of Demirtaş's, Yüksekdağ, Baluken, MP's, and mayors; the appointment of trustees to municipalities by mobilisation of the people's will; the removal of 100 thousands of people from the city; the closure of opposition institutions, media; the arrest of journalists, intellectuals, politicians; the arrest of politicians probably shouldn't be democratic. This is an opening of a coup d'état in the process of a complete solution and revenge for June 7th. If July 15 had succeeded, what the government had done for the past two years would have already happened. I'm asking you: Why is Idris Bauken being held hostage, the key role and risk in the solution period? Last week, Dear Sırrıyya Önder entered the prison after his sentence was approved. Both of our friends shuttled along with me between the Imran, the Kandil and the state so there would be no deaths in this country. Is it a crime to stop killing? What is this revenge for? The public needs to know and see this. All these talks were conducted in accordance with the government's knowledge, approval and demand of the government and the state of Erdogan. If these talks are criminal -- which never is -- well, shouldn't government and state officials be inside, including Erdogan, who approved this? Since there's no crime, our friends need to be released immediately.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0013par0189	The confessions are flying!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0012par0190	Those who are trying to condemn the peace process by holding our friends hostage today should remember that those who end the peace process and cause the mothers to shed tears will eventually stand trial and answer. Those who judge peace today will be judged by peace tomorrow. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Imralı, have been subjected to three years of uninterrupted, aggravated isolation against Mr. Abdullah Ocalan. Since April 5, 2015, no news has been heard from the Imralı. Against the law, counsel and family opinion are not allowed, all requests for negotiation are denied. While Mr. Ocalan was in power, democracy, freedoms, democratic constitution, democratic republic, peaceful foreign policy was spoken. Democracy has also been locked since the day the lock was put on the door of the Imralı. That day, the crisis, the pressure, the violence, the death, the tears, the coup, the State of Emergency; injustices, unlawfulness were the country's main agenda. In this way, isolation is applied not only to the Imralı, but to the entire country. Democracy, justice, freedoms, hopes of peace and the will to live together are in isolation, this Parliament is in isolation. Does the House have any influence or power left? It's all handed over to the palace, I'm afraid. The point of unresolvedness and isolation brings the country to crisis and collapse, is that there is an environment open to coups. When the solution was finished, the country began to unravel. Dear friends, the Kurdish problem with a hundred years of historical history is a bleeding wound in this country, and it needs to be solved inside, and unless the solution is developed, the wound will continue to bleed and bleed. So this wound started a hunger strike in Diyarbakır Prison where Leyla Güven was held hostage so that hope of peace would not grow, today on its thirty-third day. Do you know, have you ever wondered, or have you questioned, why does a deputy put his body to hunger? (Leyla's deputy has been in action for thirty-three days to do what a parliament has not done to close its eyes to problems. While this Parliament is being dealt with by the law, our deputy is fighting for the removal of isolation, peace and resolution. I would like to address Parliament: our deputy is on hunger strike for the future of the people of Turkey, not for his freedom and conditions. Mr. Speaker and the esteemed MPs, you should hear this voice. If a member of this Parliament is involved in a serious resistance like a hunger strike, you can't ignore it and ignore it, you can't ignore it. Once again, I call on power: this unlawful isolation must be terminated immediately, Parliament must take office, Parliament must listen to why Layla is on hunger strike by meeting our deputy. I'd like to emphasize from this bench that eventually the peace and resolution table in this country will be restored. The AKP President says there is no Kurdish problem. There's nothing wrong with saying there isn't. With this attitude, you can only postpone the solution, and the longer you delay, the bigger the problem, and the more international it becomes. There is a Kurdish problem, dear friends, and the solution is negotiation and peace, and you can never escape it. Peace and resolution will haunt you even if you run away because peace is the demand of millions. This is the will and power of millions that will bring peace. There is no way to peace, peace itself is a way. Yes, the millions who favour peace will continue to walk this path of peace until peace comes. I'd like to remind you from here. A country that couldn't solve its own internal problems, could not establish the right public dialogue, will have no dignity in the world. We're looking at this budget that we're looking at, it's not about life, it's about people, it's about guns, it's about defense, it's about war. But it is not for the young men of this land to fall into the ground, but to grow like a plant on the earth, and to grow. The AKP's government, which today imposes unresolvedness on both inside and on Syria, will not succeed in its policy, seeking to free the Syrian people's efforts and gains. As we deepen the insolution, the power itself will be resolved. This Parliament has seen what rulings have so far led to unresolved politics, and the corridors are full of their archives. Without a solution, the AKP will be included in the photo archive of the liquidated political rulings. Dear lawmakers, instead of creating solutions to problems, we are a party that has the highest share of the current government's pressure policy, which is engaged in eliminating problems and liquidating those in search of solutions. Former co-chairs, lawmakers, mayors, thousands of executives and members are held hostage in prisons today. I'm speaking here as co-Chair of a political party with almost half their staff in prison. Despite numerous obstacles, threats, and pressures, our people and I broke the dams and entered Parliament on June 24th. We managed to get here from the governor's office to the police by competing with the AKP (AKP) who mobilized the entire state and state's resources to run for their own election. We're being attacked every day because this isn't digested. The attacks on our party, the operations, they're not legal, they're political. The government is a constant target for our party, and the judge takes it as instruction and pushes the button. Mr. Demirtaş has decided to release the ECHM, and the AKP's President has put himself in court and said we don't know the verdict. After that, Demirtaş's violation of the law was approved at jet speed. Here's an example of political judgment that works under instructions. Did you know that the police and prosecutors who made up false statements and indictments against Demirtaş were fuckers? I'm very clear that the politicians who hold this indictment are the political foot. Turkey is a part of the European Court of Human Rights. The ECHR decision is binding. If you don't know the verdict, you can honestly say: "We withdraw our signature from this contract, we end relations with the European Union." When it comes to your work, I don't know the European Union when it doesn't come, it's completely inconsistencies. It is clearly legal not to enforce the decision of the ECHR. This attitude is also evidence that independent judgment remains. The court justice that works like court courts should know that when this power stops standing behind you tomorrow -- there are examples -- what are you going to do? Kelli, learn a little lesson from how judges escape. Your guide is universal law, not the instructions of the palace. See, the same extortionist understanding happened in the municipalities. The AKP has legally appointed trustees to the 96 DBP municipality along with the State of Emergency process. Over 6 million people live within the borders of these municipalities, where they live. To appoint trustees is to disregard the will of these 6 million people, to take away. The AKP has set up trustees to take over places it cannot win in the polls. Corruption has not been detected in the DBP municipalities. Corruption began with the original trustees. Court reports have also documented the situation. The first acts of trustees were to sever their ties with Kurdish languages, dates, memory and truth. Roboski Memorial in Kayapınar district of Diyarbakır has been removed from the park. That's what AKP trustees do: corruption and attacking public values. Kayium politics is a continuation of the Kurdish line of rejection and denial. The trustees are today's public investigators of the Shark Islamic era. We're wondering, when did the AKP learn about the line of pushers and embrace it? The mentality, which does not see how the policy of trustees creates a public break and anger, will surely reap what it sows on March 31st, and will return the extortionist trustees to its rightful owner. [[Applause from HDP rows]] With arrest, pressure, trustee extortion, this government cannot and cannot see that public will can't be prevented. If one tenth of these operations had been done to the AKP, it would have been cold by now. But we stand tall with the power of our people, here we are, and we will continue to be here. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Despite the rule's segregation policies, the guarantee and assurance of society's co-existence today are the Democratic Party of Peoples and its democratic principles. Kurd, Turk, Arab, Alevi, Armenian, Süryani, Ezidi, Çerkek, Laz, Sunni, woman, young, a political movement that represents all the social and religious colors of this country. It is the Democratic Party of Peoples that maintains democratic territory and faith in freedoms that are being destroyed. HDP is like the spirit of 1920, a garden of colorful peoples. No one will be able to wilt these colors. The purpose of such attacks on HDP (HDP) is to eliminate the will to live together. Showing the HDP as a terrorist, it shows that 6 million voters who voted for us are considered terrorists. Power has created such a mechanism that everyone who opposes the AKP has been declared a terrorist. Remember, this mechanism will come one day and put its own owners into the same definition. I ask you: Is it brave to go up against HDP with the police force, not with politics? Despite all the pressures, we will continue to defend everyone's rights, law, democracy, freedom, equality and demand for justice, to fight for them to happen, never to back down from our principles. Even if you destroy us, our principles will live on. Despite all the interference of power, democratic politics will not be finished, will not be purged. In politics, Parliament, in squares, in all areas of life, the existence of the HDP (HDP) is a guarantee of that. My dear female friends, women who make up half the population have no right to live in this country, so that the woman may be given a budget. In the end, women face a mentality that says, "I don't believe in equality between men and women." The reflection of this mentality on the street is violence on women. The woman who's experiencing the violence of the state, the woman who's experiencing the violence of the man, the woman who's experiencing the violence of the economic, social crisis. There's a constant triple mechanism for violence against women: state, judgment, male. Therefore, the cause of violence is political, not personal. It's the street reflection of the monogamy power phenomenon created by violence. Notice that the lack of punishment for violence against women has been systemized during this period of power. This budget feeds on violence. She doesn't have a name so she can get a cut in the budget. After all, women are killed every day, so we see an understanding saying, "What's the use of budgeting?" That's the logic of the budget. Precious women, men and men will never give women equal rights and representation in life, justice, and working life. Women can only get their rights by organizing, by fighting, by forming a women's alliance. I'm calling all women from here: shout, raise your voice, object, never accept slavery imposed on you, dear women. I would also like to address all my female parliamentary friends, regardless of political parties: Let's form a stronger union against violence against women. Let's get together to solve our problems. Let's come up with some common solutions. Let's run Parliament as effectively as possible.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0014par0208	Pick it up, please, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0012par0209	Yes, Mr. President. Let's legislate the laws that will guarantee the woman's rights, her law, and the demands of equality. Let this Parliament be the hope and voice of women. Dear public opinion, Turkey is at a crossroads. It's a distinction between fascism and democracy. If we don't have freedom, democracy, justice and equality, we'll all drown in the vortex of fascism. We cannot remain silent in the face of this authoritarian, oppressive regime, which does not allow people to breathe. We can't bend, we can't bend, we can't bend, we can't bend. Believe me, this regime survives at the rate it frightens society. If fear ends, power ends. And this system won't last long. Democracy will surely win. We must be brave for this, not afraid, never despair. If we stand side by side for peace, for freedom, for democratic republics, for labor and justice, if we all fight together, we can turn these dark days into light. The people of Turkey will surely succeed. In this country, the hopes of peace will never be extinguished, the songs of freedom will never be silenced. Saidi Nursi said I can live without bread, but I can't live without freedom. Yes, in order to live humanly, honorably, and freely, as people, we will be like the big tree in the emblem of HDP. We will stand firm, like the roots of our deep roots, the branches that rise to the skies, and we will be strong. Money, stamp, rant, authority, glory to the masters, the honor of humanity will be ours, and that honor will never fall to the ground. It's December 10th Human Rights Day. On this occasion, I salute all human rights advocates and struggles, sending messages of solidarity. I say we oppose this budget, which is contrary to human rights, equality, peace, democratic life, gender equality, and we will make the most effective opposition here on behalf of all the oppressed to make sure that this budget doesn't pass, and I salute Parliament, and thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0015par0215	Thank you, Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0016par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0015par0217	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0016par0218	Mr. President, Mr. Buldan, Mr. Co-Chair's got a lot of rough pickings, and in half an hour's speech, these are the harsh taunts against our party, so I believe that Mr. Buldan has the right to answer them. But in a manner of speaking...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0017par0219	Mr. President, we have a second speaker, we're going on, we're not done talking, we're going on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0016par0220	...Mr. Co-Chair Sezai, will you promise me after you speak, or should you speak now, your appreciation.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0018par0221	Yeah, let's finish the group talk, and then we'll consider it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0019par0222	President, there's a group talk for an hour, then they'll respond.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0018par0223	Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Co-Chair Van MP Sezai will make his speech. Here you go, Mr. Permanent.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0020par0226	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by greeting you and the people of Turkey. The fact that the budget talk coincided with December 10th Day of Human Rights was a truly meaningful coincidence. We're talking about the budget in a country where the human rights system is shaken, the law is out of trust. The 2019 budget is like the AKP's report on human rights violations. We will continue to defend the budget rights, the basic rights of society, against an understanding that undermines the budget from the will of Parliament, from its control. Making a budget, protecting a budget, being a society, building a democracy based on equal citizenship law. Today, we will continue this struggle by defending our people's right to live in peace, the right to budget, in spite of those who view democracy as a tool, with our idea of radical democracy. The protection of budget rights is the protection of justice. Those who did not feel justice in their conscience, who held justice captive with their own political interests, did not fail to compress the budget into the vortex of injustice. Let's not forget, if there's injustice anywhere, justice is at stake everywhere. In fact, I'd like to begin my talk with the speech of Dear Secret Surraya Leader in 2013, about peace, democracy, hope. But he did not enter the prison because of the words he had spoken in Nevroz, but because of the words he had offered his evidence, as if he had never used it, he was put in the indictment of the Leader, and the truth was distorted, and justice was destroyed once again before the eyes of all. Look at the transcripts, and those who interpreted the talks made in 2013 as messages of peace and brotherhood in Parliament on that day can easily accuse our beloved deputy, our deputies, today. So, our deputies were taken hostage for the sake of peace and brotherhood, just as it was said in the House that day. When we used it today, the word "peace" that we were declared terrorists was used only 45 times in the House that day. What's changed? The Kurdish issue, by the way, evaporated and disappeared? From that day on, representatives of the nation were put in prison, replaced by trustees. 27 of our MPs -- some of them more than one -- have been taken into custody 67 times. We got a fine on 21 of our deputies. Layla Güven has to express her opinion by taking a hunger strike in prison. As we speak, Dear Leyla Güven is on the 33rd day of the hunger strike. Yes, how can the House listen to people who don't even listen to a deputy? Leyla doesn't put her trust-in-Imran isolation in our eyes for nothing, guys. The consequences of isolation can be understood just by looking at the massacres we've experienced so far. With isolation, this country has returned to the geography of almost massacres. In 2015, hundreds of people, including the Suruç massacre, the October 10 massacre, the Antwerp massacre, died. Children, the elderly died under armored vehicles. Furkan and Muhammad died in their sleep, and the person who crushed them was acquitted at the first hearing. The 85-year-old Pakize Caspian died in the middle of the street under the Panzer. 202 people died in their homes in closed spaces. He died in the courtyard of his home, where he raised his parents and chatted with his neighbors. The number of prisoners in prison has reached 240,000 today, prisoners and prisoners. There are now 70,000 students in prisons. Anyone who wants to see the human limits of the AKP will go back to prison. Arin, a 1 - year - old baby, is in prison with his mother, although she is very ill. All our demands on this matter have been denied. I'd like to look you in the eye and ask you, how does a 1-year-old get punished? How do you fit that into your conscience? Take all the action you want, and that's the date when the Kurdish people will remember the AKP. If you don't feel sorry for us when we say this, there's something wrong with your conscience. Dear MPs, those who filled the area of the 2013 Nevroz, with the enthusiasm of the huge crowd, flew peace pigeons from Amed to İstanbul that day, the peace workers who flew these pigeons are in prison today. As they entered the prison, they entered the prison with the confidence of having put their faith in what they believed in, and they will come out head-on again. None of us, but none of us have given up on this love. Dear MPs, at the beginning of the Council's existence, it comes to ensure that the country's resources are fairly distributed. It is enough to look at the budget process to see how much power values society. Today we face a greedy government, a government that sees everything too little for itself, and the people too much for everything. Nearly 10 million workers work for $1,603 a month. One family's hunger limit is 1,900 lira. It's dragon fruit at the table, but you can go back to minimum wagers and tell them to make sacrifices. It's not a budget, it's like you've prepared a manual on how to plunder public resources. How we finance war against Kurds, how we make women dependent on men, how we feed the workers bug food for a while, how we condemn children to unregulated dorms, you can find the answers to their questions in this budget. We're constantly saying that the economy is dependent on democracy, which we insist on highlighting. There's no text that says that better than the budget. The budget is more political than economic. It should not be forgotten that the budget is a political text deciding how to divide between the rich and the poor, the women and the men, the children and those in need of social support, and those in need of social support from whom. The AKP collects taxes from everyone without saying anything poor, but spends it on its own and on its followers. With this budget, the AKP's rule of court has imposed economic violence on the community's budget. Today, the number of bankrupt trades exceeded 72,000 people. 72,000 people, who knows what hope they've opened, may have had to shut down their parents' business. Billions of pounds of SME loans are under surveillance in Turkey today. The New Economics Programme said it would save $59 billion in 2019, while on the other hand, 50 prisons will be held each year. You're saving up to build a prison? Do one good thing for society. The total increase in the budget of seven institutions spending security budgets today is $38 billion, dear friends, over the past two years. One year in Şırnak for public investments is 169 thousand liras. It can be invested three times, three times in Turkey's 81 province, not separated, but even with an increased number, as much as the grant to Şırnak, but against that, the remittance to the palace's credit card is increasing. The presidential budget folds to three.... but today the funds, the funds, which are reserved for the provinces, come out in this budget with funny numbers, as in Şırnak. The economic destruction of the Kurdish issue returns to Kurdish people as poverty, unemployment. There have been 121,000 investments in human health and social services in the region of Eskişehir, Bilcik. At the end of regional development, Ağs, Kars, Iğdır, and Ardahan had about 5,700 deposits. 121,000 investments on one side, 5,700 investments on the other. Mr. Bursa and Bilek and Kars deserve better, as long as you make this budget for the people, then all these provinces are worth much better and will be rewarded in the budget. There are over 95,000 investments in water, waste and sewage services in Samsun, Slap, Chorum, Amasya. Van, Mush, Bitlis, Hakkari, about 3,400. There's a huge difference. Why? Because there's no water for those who don't vote for AKP. Don't give us any security excuses. Did you shut down the sugar factories for security reasons? You shut down the sugar mills, victimized all the beet producers, and instead, you covered for artificial sugar monopoly. The farmer's debt has increased 13 times. When you look at foreign debt, Turkey's external debt increased 14 times in 15 years during your administrations. The AKP is currently trying to close its debt deficit by paying huge interest from the public budget. Not the extremities, but the financial institutions you've been enriching for years with interest payments, come and tell the public from this platform. While you're trying to settle the debt with debt, non-paying taxes for years, tax debts are pardoned at every opportunity. We've just heard from Treasury and Finance Minister Berat Colonel. In July, the same Minister said they would not bring a new pardon for public purchases after this to ensure fiscal discipline, but the same Minister brought the pardon bill in less than four months after he promised that they would not be pardoned. Now, does the Minister not listen to the economy, or does the Minister not know about the economy? Yes, this four-month period actually shows us the situation in which the economy and economic governance is completely naked. The law is constantly taxed by workers, poor people, and people, as if there is a tax requirement only for those under certain incomes. The public pays at least two thirds of the income tax. Electricity, water, gas bills are taxed four or five ways. Electricity and water bills are not bills, they're almost a form of extortion. Everything that goes well in this country is the AKP's success, everything that goes wrong is the people's fault. He's at the most unemployed university, among college graduates, but you're poor, so he can't get a job. You go back to people, college graduates. It's the industry where the construction industry killings that grow with the money you've been pouring in are the biggest. So far, according to official figures, 22,000 workers have lost their lives in your time, but you're trying to put laborers in charge of business killings by saying that workers are ignorant. You also accuse pensioners of lazyness. People can't get out of work when they're old or retired. 803,000 people have to work in this country even though they're over 65 years old. 64 per cent of all pensioners continue to work. Dear MPs, for those of you who live in retirement, from defence and security spending to the Ministry of Labor budget, we've asked you to transfer $20 billion. While pensioners are not being retired, the AKP has not neglected to immediately pass an arrangement that gives senior public executives privileges in retirement, but has passed this law urgently. The presidential number of vehicles has now risen to 350. What are you going to do with these tools? You're going to prevent the crisis with these tools? You will remember that the police were wandering the streets, and we were humiliated by these images throughout the world. Now the cops are gonna get in and out of these cars? 350 vehicles belong to the presidency. Why are you taking these cars? There's no money for pensioners, but the palace can't get enough of it. There are two institutions that can't afford it by the end of the year, can't raise it, can't afford it, can't afford it, can't afford it, can't afford it. One is the presidency, the other is the Religion. However, both are no longer the institutions that serve citizens today. The Ministry of Religious Affairs does nothing but scare the children. In this country today, the ministry of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is to approach all beliefs at equal distance, to produce the services that different beliefs expect from society, from the public, but today, the President of Religious Affairs continues to ignore all the different beliefs in society instead of doing this task. Only 10 per cent of unemployed people can benefit from the unemployment fund. 70 percent of the fund is being transferred to pencils outside unemployment allowance, where it is spent. By 2019, 1 million new jobs were already in the economic programme. Look, the growth figures have been announced; the third quarter has arrived at 1.6; the fourth quarter will come at negative. This country will face a much greater unemployment than the expected 1 million unemployed. Here is the Fund for Unemployment Insurance, which is actually a fund in an economy that protects the unemployed, which allows them to survive as long as they are unemployed, and this fund is being used elsewhere today outside its scope. When we looked at the budget process in the commission, in fact, when we listened to the ministers, we realized that the ministers did not live in this country. We listened to presentations as if the money for education has only increased 6 per cent over the past two years, while the money for war has not increased 70 per cent. The ministers spoke as if 43 workers in this country did not commit suicide because they were expelled from their jobs by humiliation, as if the average 400 people were not fired every day in accordance with the law. Yes, the MPs of this House spoke as if they were not under arrest. The palace is in wonderland, the people are ruined. And thanks to you, we've come back to a country in foreign politics with a pawn and a mate, a tongue, who's lost all reputation. In Syria, you said you were a mate, you said you were a mate in Libya, you were a mate. You don't even have a game of chess where you're almost mateless. You don't know chess. In the Middle East, whenever ISIS was in trouble, you came to his rescue. The AKP did not look at the children of this country as much as ISIS looked at their gangs. In the fight against ISIS, Kurds have weakened not only in Syria, but in Turkey, and in Europe. They have almost eliminated a significant threat to Turkey and Europe. AKP-based municipalities, however, hosted ISIS people in their offices. Trade Minister Afrin denied allegations of stealing olives from Afrin, but in the same cabinet, the Minister of Agriculture came to the Budget Commission and agreed to it. And now, among the gangs that you've been supporting, what you've achieved from the looting, there are share wars. Mr İbrahim Kalak said on March 21st 2018, CNN International's live broadcast that the ESO elements entering Afrin have information that the houses have been looted. He had already confirmed once again that the SOC was an army of marauders. And I would like to remind you that at the AKP group meeting on January 30, 2018, President Erdogan said: "The Free Syrian Army is a civilian formation, just like the Kuvaimilliye forces. Yes, dear friends, dear lawmakers, young people come to mind when we say what's to come. In fact, young people are stuck in a land without a future. But you're looking at young people, one out of five young people looking for jobs, three million young people who don't work or study. Out of every 10 young people, he doesn't even want to go near the one who doesn't look like him. The government's plan to assimilated Kurds with the 1925 Shark Islamic Plan, and silence all opposition with the Tagriri Sukûn Law is being implemented today by AKP. The AKP continues to mimic the most violent methods in the past with the 2016 OHL technology, a model of 2018, and says it did so under the name of security. What security? Whose safety? Every time we speak of your violations, we do it for the safety of the people. You try to keep the people quiet against these atrocities. We go to Kurdish cities almost often. Even between the two counties, we've been checked 50 times. There are security barriers everywhere, especially in front of municipalities, in front of municipalities where you appoint trustees. You think you're protecting them with these activities you're doing for safety reasons. Prior to the June 24th elections, the Şenyasar family was killed by the hospital's security cameras. What happened? Not a single person was caught, not brought to trial. Whose safety are you talking about? Orhan Tunç lost his life because the ambulance was not sent to Cizre. For security reasons, the government says the ambulance couldn't go. People are selling drugs in front of police stations when they can't even get past the police station on the same street. Yes, you've built dams in Kurdish cities, no water. Even you can't explain why you built those dams, and there's no forest you haven't burned down. This is in Kurdish provinces. When we arrived in Istanbul, you arrested 37 airport workers. As the workers expressed their demands, the ministers who did not go there complained of bug foods, beds, and deaths, went running there as soon as the gendarme received the news of the action. Are the workers safe? Do you know how we know the third airport workers are right? You can tell from here, too, from the Anadolu Agency. See what the Anadolu Agency says in its report about the yellow vests in France? In Belgium, the yellow vests stepped back into the government. The protests of the yellow vests prevented fuel hikes. The demands of the yellow vests are no different from the demands of third airport workers. Yes, you're obviously a source of great insecurity rather than providing security to the public. The public is not safe; on the contrary, the public is in danger because of what you did to justify your safety. My dear friends, the esteemed MPs also need to look at their comments about women in order to understand what kind of regime the AKP wants. Here you can see the evidence of the AKP's fear of freedom, equality. You've been in power for sixteen years, two of the 16 ministries, only 4 of the 49 deputy ministers are in women. Most of the people who have to get welfare are women. Today, when we are on our way to 2019, 70 of every 100 women want to work, they can't work. Half the workers in agriculture are women, but they're all off the books. According to the 2016 activity report, only 9.5 million from the Family Ministry budget were earmarked to the Women's Status General Directorate. The same year, the luxury car was earmarked for 93 million liras. In 2018, the number increased to 109 million liras. You are even afraid of the word "equality," which you have removed from all your official texts. And we're going to the local elections. President Erdogan recently announced that local campaigns would avoid pollution of images and noise. What are you going to do? You're closing the party? During each election period, all state buildings, all state resources, all state officials work like the AKP's county organisation. The trustee appointed to Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, Cumali Cumilla, should have resigned and left her post after she was nominated from AKP, but still conducts her election work in the city hall in front of the municipal building. You all know that the Home Secretary inspectors who camped in our municipalities can't find a single form of corruption, unlawful conduct. If they did, you'd have announced it with a drum. The minds of all Kurdish citizens have been humiliated today by the placement of trustees in the municipalities of their conscience. In an interview with a tradeswoman in Amed, they hurt us spiritually; they must not ask us for votes. Yes, you won't find a better sentence to describe how you defame the dignity of Kurds with trustees. These trustees have exposed AKP's years of Kurdish hostility. The Kurdish people saw AKP's hostility very clearly when the trustees did it. As soon as the trustees arrived, they attacked the Kurdish language, its values, with the accumulated anger of the years. In the election process, our people are threatened, displaced, our polling staff are rejected, the voting areas are surrounded by panzers. The election districts are being changed, the garrison's influence is changing the vote, our votes are being stolen. We didn't just tear down the election dam in the elections until today -- and this election dam is among the shames of this Parliament -- we have broken down every dam AKP has brought before us; we have broken down the dam of fear, we have broken the dam of deception, we will continue to destroy it. During each election period, the attacks against HDP (HDP) increased. More than 200 attacks have occurred from June 7th to today, but despite all these attacks, we continue our struggle, our struggle for democracy and peace, and we will never give up this fight. Look, from 2015 to today, about 10,000 HDP People have been taken into custody, thousands of HDP people have been arrested and put in prison. And? While we raised our votes, the AKP lost 7 per cent of the vote. In the provinces you call it, your trustees are hiding behind fences with guards. You can't win, you can't win. Dear MPs, I'd like to end my speech with the words of our dear İbrahim Ayhan MP, who we've lost this year. He says, "We, Ibrahim Ayhan, are in Turkey, in the common country, hoping to live together with other people in the democratic nation perspective." The fulfillment of that hope passes through the meeting of the spirit of the Travel Spirit and the spirit of Kobani. Yes, I complete my speech with respect to those who have not given up this struggle for peace and democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0021par0267	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0022par0269	Mr. President, after Mr. Buldan, Mr. Sezai Baselli also made some heavy taunts, said the AK PARTI is a Kurdish enemy, and spoke of Kurdish provinces in Turkey. THE EC PARTY has a clear approach to these issues. For the record, I'm not going to make any demands, I'm withdrawing that request. Today in Turkey, Kurds and Turks are in all Turkey's provinces, it's a sociological fact. You can't change this sociological reality in a plastic political language. Second: There is no such description in both the Constitution and the Law. They're extremely arbitrary and contrary to the usual course of life, but ideologically they're the language of political construction. We reject this language. AK PARTY is not a Kurdish enemy, but AK PARTY is a party that receives a large number of votes from Kurdish citizens. We got 40 percent, 50% of the vote in this country, but the Kurds' enemies are the ones who are hostile to the Kurds who don't vote for them in the field and everywhere. And our people know that very well.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit01spe0023par0274	Thank you. Dear friends, I interrupt the reunion to be reunited at four o'clock.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0023par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We are continuing with the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. We're starting negotiations. On behalf of the groups, the Republican People's Party Group will address President and İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroglu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0024par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I give you all greetings and greetings. As Mr. President just stated, we're negotiating an offer and a bill. In terms of budget rights, we will discuss Parliament's budgetary budgetary rights, with the 2017 Central Management Act draft and the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. My dear friends, the Constitutional Court defines the right to budget rights, tax revenues and so on: the right to determine the variety and quantity of public spending, to approve and to monitor the results of budget spending. So there's also a determination, there's approval, and there's auditing the results of budget spending, and that's Parliament's budget rights. Budget rights are a right after long struggles, after the struggle against the monarchy. Thus, any will that respects Parliament, any executive body that respects Parliament, performs its preliminary preparations for the right of budget, in accordance with the framework that the law sees fit to deliver its rights. Every time there's budget talks, I come in and I'm on two things from this bench. One is the mid-term program; the second is the mid-term financial plan. Parliament has passed a law, and we know when it will be published. They were told many times, and each time it happened, and so it happened. They came up with a lot of reasons. Now there's no reason, it's all connected to one person. Despite all this, it wasn't broadcast during the middle-term program and the mid-term financial plan, friends. Now, I would especially like to address the esteemed lawmakers of the ruling party: you have given authority, you have given power, you have even handed over your own powers, and you will not ask the executive branch: Why don't you run the mid-term program and the mid-term financial plan on time? Who held your hand, and who prevented you? I await this question. Secondly, dear friends do not make an effort in that matter until a bill or a proposal of law is passed by a governing body that respects Parliament. Now, look, the Financial Stability and Development Committee has been established, and it can be established. Has he been transferred to Parliament? Has the law been offered? It has been given, but look, the son-in-law, who is in charge, says: "We have met twice in a row, we continue our activities. Isn't that disrespectful to Parliament? There's a law that doesn't come out of Parliament, you form organs, and you hold meetings of that organ, and you share the results with the public, as if it were the law. I especially address the members of the ruling party: If you give authority, if you give power, whatever you do, we're behind you anyway. If you have an idea, you make yourself a lead soldier. They'll know their place, and we'll know ours. Of course, this bill can be made, of course it's acceptable, we have no objection to that, but it's not right to display a will as if it's passed through Parliament. My dear friends, we need to look at the 2019 budget first. The 2019 budget is not designed for specific conditions, such as the previous budgets. There are two basic areas where we have to pay attention to these two basic areas in the preparation of the budget. The first is: This Central Government Budget of 2019 was prepared during an economic crisis, and the economic crisis is expected to deepen further in the coming process. The second is that this budget was not prepared in a democratic environment, but in a period of coup, during a civil coup. Therefore, this budget needs to be considered and evaluated in this framework. First, let us consider: What problems will the budget of 2019 provide or produce? Yeah, there's an economic crisis. The crisis will deepen in the coming process, but who will pay the bill for the crisis? The budget is a basic document to show who will pay the bill for the crisis. So we're looking at the budget, and I'm not saying it's a minimum wage fee -- or there's 1,800,000 people with income. 1,800,000 people get paid under minimum wage, and they support their families, they pay electricity money, natural gas money, school expenses and so on. Does this budget contain a provision that will make the wound of 1,800,000 people an ointment? No. I'm passing, minimum wagers, minimum wagers who have to live on $1,603 a month. Is there an arrangement for minimum wagers -- including 6,700,000 people -- that would be an ointment for the wound of 6,700,000 people, minimum wage? I don't have that either. I pass, unemployment... my dear friends, unemployment is the root of all evil. An unemployed man comes to a point where he can support himself and his family, and he's willing to do whatever it takes to make ends meet. Fighting unemployment is supposed to be a common duty of power, not of opposition, but of all of us. What does it mean to be unemployed? What does it mean when a person can't get along? When are we doing this? In the 21st century. Look, my dear friends, I'll show you two pictures, two pictures. Two of the photos are taken in the church. Turkey's Employment Association is looking for workers to run for a period of time -- less than a year. People are in line, women are in separate lines, men are in separate lines. That's what Turkey's been coming to for 16 years, dear friends. I'm not going to give you such nice words or too harsh criticism. Put your hand on your conscience, take a look at these two photographs; consider what point Turkey's executive body has brought to. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You might say, "Sir, this is a temporary period." We say this at the end of 16 years, friends, at the end of 16 years. At the end of 16 years, who has the plague of bringing Turkey face to face with such a painting?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0025par0023	We know about your period.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0024par0024	The plague of those who brought Turkey to this point in 16 years belongs to those who live in the palace and those around it, not you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Does this budget provide a solution to the unemployment problem? No, he's not building any solutions. The pensioners... anyway, we pushed them, and that's what it is, you took them to the pensioner with a salary of two wages; you took them to the pensioner with a salary of one. What does this budget bring to retirement? What are you gonna give him for retirement? Nothing. He's looking for 4 million pensioners, folks, 4 million pensioners. Not ordinary, 4 million pensioners. There are those who can't get a job, they have a month's salary, but they can't get along, and they're looking for a job; 4 million pensioners. Consider the farmer: How is the farmer's condition, and what does this budget bring to the farmer? My dear friends, you probably know the fertilizer prices better than I do, you know the drug prices better than I do, you probably know the fuel prices better than I do, where they're going. I suppose you go and talk to the farmers, and they probably ask you what you're doing and how Turkey came to this painting. My dear friends, the Agricultural Law has its 21st Amendment. Look, I don't blame Parliament here; Parliament has done its duty, passed the law, the Law of Agriculture. The 21st article states that every year the farmer is supported by at least 1 percent of the illegitimate nation. He says, "It will be given." He says, "It can be given." He doesn't say, "It will be given." He says, "You will give this money to the farmer." 2006, 2019, never found 1 percent, never. Do you know how much farmers will receive from the AK PARTY government from 2006 to 2019? 154 billion 850 million liras. So if you had given 1 percent, you would have given 154 billion dollars to the farmer. Then you wouldn't import lentils or import hay. You import animals, you import living animals, you import hay to feed them. With such a painting, Turkey has never faced it. What are you giving me? Mr. President had a good speech in Balıkesir, when he was Prime Minister. Of course, the assembled citizens are speaking: we're going to support the farmer. lt's good, give it to him, who's holding your hand? And he says, Mr. President, half of the warehouse is yours and half is ours. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, let alone half the warehouse, the farmer has no tractor, no land, all for execution. Then what are we going to do, guys? Where are we going? Does the esnafa bring anything, this budget law, what does it bring to the esnafa? He's not bringing anything. Go see, there are Sites in Ankara, the center of furniture in Ankara. Go to the shopkeeper and ask him, "What is your situation?" She'll cry, she'll cry. Go somewhere else, ask the shopkeeper, see how many shopkeepers have closed up. If you're the new government, we'll say: "Ya, there was a crisis, they were in power after the crisis." After the crisis, all the measures taken after the crisis took place were taken by the late Ecevit government, and you followed them, and you were set up. Now you bring Turkey to the same point 16 years later, but with heavier conditions. There's a tradesman who can't pay his rent, my friends, who can't pay his rent. Look, have you ever heard of the trucker's shop, the trucker's shop? What punishments does he deal with, how much does he get for the gas? Do you know what oil number 10 is? They use oil number 10 to avoid getting the gas, in case it's cheaper. It's 80 percent narrowing down on truck sales. We have an economics newspaper, you know, that's the news on the front page of the Earth newspaper. What does this budget bring to debtors? Yeah, and what does a citizen bring in in debt? Does it make it easier for those in debt? See if it gives them an advantage so they can pay off their debts. During the AK PARTY administrations, citizens' debt increased 79 times, 79 times. Do you know how much I owe you? 522 billion liras. Citizen in debt, unable to breathe. $522 billion, those are the official numbers, not the numbers we found. How is this citizen going to pay $522 billion, folks? There's such a thing as mercy. Look, the increase in consumer loans alone -- the consumer loan -- is withdrawing money from the bank to provide for his house -- has increased from 229 to 56 million dollars to 12 billion 833 million dollars. Where's 56 million, 12 billion 833 million, people? You have a conscience, you think about your citizen, where is this citizen going? The citizen is not interested in politics, and you know why? Turkey isn't interested in where it's going. The problem with the citizen is how to bring home the bread in the evening, where to get the money. This is the problem with the citizen. Who brought the citizen to this point? As I said, I don't blame Parliament, it does its duty to Parliament, partly, but with your support, the people who ruled the country brought it to this point. Look, between January and October alone, there are 1,66,000 citizens operating in ten months. Where are these guys going? And then there's the interest that debtors pay to banks. This government -- I call it government -- excuse me, government is out, government is out, government is what you call government, government of the Court -- the government of the Court also has burdens on citizens. You're going into debt, and you're also saying, you're going to pay interest. You're going to pay interest in this year's January and October, this year's January and October, and in ten months, the interest paid by the citizens is 55 billion dollars, 55 billion 500 million liras. So the $55 quadrillion banks have been paid interest. Who's paying this interest? Who's paying the fat back, minimum wage, hard-earned citizen, who's paying? I swear to you, look, I swear to God, this is the government, this palace, all of those who roam around this palace, but all of them serve the loan sharks, all of them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, do you have any idea how much interest the citizens paid in credit cards and consumer loans, from 2003 to 2018, as of October 2018? 433 billion 490 million liras. You're making poor citizens pay 433 quadrillion liras for old money. Well, don't you have a conscience? Where will this land end? Why can't people see your future? When we say it, it's the end of the world. Yeah, these are real numbers. Someone's going to talk about this citizen's problem, someone's going to bring it up. Who's gonna bring it up? A round of applause for the walking organ makes you a lead soldier, and you can't question the future in good health. Therefore, I say these numbers, use your vote by putting your hand on your conscience. Do not be ascribed partners in sin and do not be ascribed partners in sin. (CHEERING) Yeah, how much interest do you get paid? What government paid this much interest in the Republic of Turkey? We're against interest............ the whole state, all citizens work for interest. Does it solve the industrialist's problem? Come on, we've left the citizen, he's struggling with debt, he can't produce industry, he can't produce industry. How can he not produce it? It can't produce without imports, it can produce if it imports. What that means is to make Turkey an addict. You've made Turkey an addict. No imports, no production. Dear friends, look, there's been four fiscal pardons, new one after another, permanent financial amnesty. When the late Kemal Unakitan issued his first fiscal pardon, he said: "The AK PARTI will never grant forgiveness again. " See, these governments, the world's most fiscal pardon-giving government in the world, look, look, I'm underlining, I'm underlining. Ask France, ask Germany, how many years ago did they declare fiscal amnesty? Do it 100 times if you want. How does a debt-ridden citizen pay his taxes, insurance premiums? He can't pay. We can't pay, we can get forgiveness, we can't pay, we get forgiveness. I can't pay, my friend, I can't pay, I'm in the shit, I can't breathe, he says. You're making excuses, sir. Come, pay. You can't pay, you can do as much as you want. He won't be able to pay. My dear friends, people can't see past them. The COBIs... the COBIs are the same. Here, they have organized-second zones, and I'm going around, and I'm listening, so why don't you take a look around, and what are they gonna say to you? Are they going to talk about rosebuds, or are they going to say we can't breathe. Are we blind? Are they going to say we can't see? That's what they're gonna say. Does this budget provide a solution for pensioners? No, guys. You know what hurts me is that something can be disputed. A citizen demands a right, political power may oppose, and that's common in democracies. I don't like my preferences, I don't accept that. But no one defines their own citizen as "structured" or "structured," especially when they sit in the chair of the presidency and ask for their own citizen's rights. (CHEERING) If that's what he's talking about, he's no one's President, he's nobody's. There's no such thing. No one would call their own citizen, let alone sit in that office, no politician or citizen, any other citizen. Okay? These are our citizens. He's demanding rights, and you won't give them to him, that's all. But it's not right to insult him, to insult him, to say, "Why do you want the right? There are construction workers. Do you have any construction workers, relatives, friends, do you ever talk to them? You don't, do you? For God's sake, why don't you go talk to him and go talk to him? Four months, four months a year, four months, seven or eight months, do you know how they get by? Ask them what they eat in their homes, what they drink, ask them. It's a shame, isn't it, fellas? They get the meat in grams, see, if they get the money, they get the meat in grams, guys. If you don't believe me, go ask the town. You've made the meat grow by a gram, citizen. Who brought it? Who the hell brought it? You've been running it for 16 years, and that's what you've done with the country. Who's responsible? I don't blame you, look, I'm not saying anything to the AK PARTY group in the process. But the fault of the AK PARTY is that everything they say means yes, everything you say. And you, my brother, forgive me, I'm sorry, but why did you make the country this way? Have the courage to say it, that's what I ask of you, or we don't ask for anything. The student dorm problem, see, was a problem that would be solved in a year, in a year. The problem to solve in a year is not solved in 16 years. Yeah, well, your kids are going to college, and I'm not saying anything about the fat ones, and they can hold private homes, yachts, or yachts, but think about the poor guy's kid. Yeah, this one's going to stay in the dorm, no dorms. Where's he gonna stay? Why didn't you solve the dorm problem? 16 years, 16 years, not a year, 16 years... in a year it's been solved, in a year it's got hot water, it's got cold water, it's got broadband Internet access, it's got one person, it's got two rooms, so why is it so much power for our kids? And I'll tell you something else, dear friends: there are families who cut off electricity, natural gas, water in the middle of winter, families in the middle of winter who are cut off electricity, natural gas and water; these are poor families who don't know what politics is, these are families who don't know enough about it, they're trying to support themselves in the day-to-day occupation, they're trying to turn the budget. I'll just give you an example of Istanbul, an example of Istanbul: 580,201 houses were cut off, friends, 580,201. Well, you don't give these families water rights, guys, and they don't drink water, so how do they bathe? Natural gas... you're cutting off natural gas from 493,219 dwellings. And, well, do people who do that have a conscience, do people who do that live in space? These are the answers of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality on a question motion, my friends. Does this budget provide a solution? These are forgotten people, friends, forgotten people, our people, but these are the invisible people, these are the non-substantiated people, these are the non-substantiated people, but the number of them is millions. Is this budget going to satisfy the discrimination between martyrs and veterans? No. For God's sake, I'd like to address your conscience: What if the martyr, the martyr, the martyr, the martyr, the A, the B, the B? Even here, he discriminated, this executive body, even here. Yeah, well, a man has a conscience. Security forces are fighting for national defense in the snow, in the winter, in the cold, at minus 30 degrees in the air, martyring, okay, you're a martyr. You say, July 15th... come on, brother, you're above my head. The martyr of July 15th is our martyr, and the other martyr is our martyr. Why do you discriminate, and why do they discriminate? For God's sake, did you put your hand on your conscience and ask the executive body to answer that question? What else can I ask you? Look, on December 24th, you passed a law that was to be established in 2017, where we are now arriving at 2019. The campaign's open, the money's collected, where's the money? Where is this campaign? What bank is he in? Where did this money come from? Yeah, it's been two years, two years. What in God's name is a campaign? You open up a campaign... did they steal that money, too? That's what we think, because the executive organ has something like that, it's going to make everything work, it's going to make it work. (CHEERING) I assure you, I'm concerned. I'm worried. This budget... you always promise on election squares. We promised both for the security forces and for the teachers, and eventually for the executives of the EC PARTY, and they said, "We're going to give 3,600 additional indicators to teachers, security guards, health workers, religious workers. It's very good. Anything on that? Nothing. Why won't you give it to me? Why did you promise everyone? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Recently -- if I remember correctly -- good friends of the PARTI gave a motion, offered a law offer; you refused. Why do you refuse? You offer the law, we'll take it. How do you raise your hand to say no to something that comes here in favor of the citizen? In favor of the citizen. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] I've come to this point: "No to those who are in favor of the citizen, you use the game "yes" to those who are in favor of the court, and that is what hurts me, my dear friends. Now, I know, give me 3600 additional indicators. We'll say, "Sir, there's no money." There's money, friends, money. The problem is, who are we going to spend the money on, who are we going to use it for? Sir, they've come here, they've spoken: we'll spread the tax. No tax collectors upstairs, one hand in oil, one hand in honey. Well, tax; we'll spread it on the floor. Traders; taxes, farmers; taxes, pensions; taxes, newborns; taxes, billions of winners -- I underline -- there's no money in taxes from the winner of the billion dollars. Well, friends, for God's sake, we have a power, and you have a power, so when are you going to tax the executive body, friends, and not ask a question? Why don't those who move billions pay taxes? There are still tens of thousands of subcontractors who can't be recruited. Does this budget bring anything? He's not bringing anything. We brought up the subcontractor, you had to. But why do you discriminate? Why do you discriminate? A subcontractor is a subcontractor, my friends. Whether it happens or not. Now let's put some of it on the staff, take some of it out. So, is that something that the conscience would accept? My dear friends, this budget, I've just said, is a political coup budget; it's not a budget that comes in normal times; it's a budget that comes in when society is under pressure. No one can speak out of fear, no one. It's a budget of violence. When I say, "What blow?" you might ask. It's the budget after the July 20 coup, after the July 20 coup. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, you can say, "What happened after July 20th?" I'll say: "Think of a country, think of any country, the law, the administration and the judgment are completely under one person's control, so there is no principle of separation of powers." I'll tell you one more time, the balance and control institutions that should be under state administration don't actually work. Think of a country where 90 percent of the media, including private and public, is controlled by 1 person, 1 person. The opposition has 90 percent media on both screens and pages, never giving them, never giving them a line. Think of a country where over 100 journalists are in prison. Those who have been sentenced and evacuated have been cut off from fear. The authors are self-censored. Think of a country, think of it, who's a terrorist, who's an agent, and one person decides who's an agent, and the courts go and confirm it. Think of a country, which is the measure of public employment and rise - knowledge, knowledge, savings and experience - loyalty to authority, partying, advocacy, efficiency. Think of a country, because they want peace, see, hundreds of academics are expelled from the university because they want peace, because they have signed a declaration; their passports are confiscated, their wives' passports confiscated, their flight out of the country, their work banned. Where's the democracy, fellas? Show me one country that has such a democracy and is in this situation. You may not like a person's opinion, you may criticize it, you may judge it, but you throw it away, you're acquitted, you don't start it again. Think of a country where people's rights to defend themselves are restricted in courts, they don't file indictments for months, hundreds of people can go to jail without indictments, even lawyers are arrested illegally. Think of a country where the government's rulers don't account for the money they spend on their people; they don't know the cost of the palaces, the big city hospitals they built, the airports, the bridges, the people, the parliament of that country. Do you know the cost of the palace, the cost of the bridge, the cost of the tube gate, the cost of city hospitals, how much? You don't know, they can't tell you, you don't know. Then why are you saying yes? Think of a country where corrupters are constantly rising in the face of the state, honest, honest men are constantly humiliated, despised. Imagine a country, despite the heavy economic crisis, that no one in the business world can speak out of fear. Think of a country where even the head of the top judicial body of that country comes out and does this to the media: "The trust in the judiciary has fallen to 30 percent. What else should I say? Think of a country, where the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors... used to be called the High Council, they lifted it up, it became a low institution. The Court of Judges and Prosecutors tells the judges and prosecutors: "Before you make the final decision, you will have your opinion from us. " What did judges decide according to their conscience and by the rule of law? Think of a country where those with political power and those with financial power are not on trial. Once again, those with political power and those with financial power are not on trial, but the poor are on trial. (CHEERING) There's no one left who's wealthy and stays in prison. What are they doing? They hire the court's lawyers right away, give them big money, and it's all settled on its own. Think of a country where MPs are arrested, mayors are dismissed, and presidents who are close to authority are being forced to resign. You know, respect the will of the people, respect the national will? Imagine a country, not even the Supreme Court's rulings, which are required to be implemented, are not implemented by the lower court because the lower court is taking power from the palace, not the law. Which law will you speak of? Imagine a country where everyone's phones are tapped and served to an authority. Your phones are tapped, and you're not comfortable talking on your phones. Mine is resting, my wife's, my children's, we're all resting, but we're not afraid because we're behind the truth, we're defending the truth. Let them hear as much as they like, and if they don't listen, they'll be damned, if they don't listen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Imagine a country where there's murder at a consulate. You get the recording, you get the recording on the same day. On the same day, those who committed the murder walk away, and then the ambassador of Saudis leaves. Dear friends, where is such a country? Tell me, what country is this country? Think of a country, who has lost a great deal of economic independence, who borrows from international loan sharks, who can only stand by lending one of the world's highest interest rates, and what we've come to is not just to pay the principal money, but to pay the interest of the principal. They also borrow money to pay interest on the principal. If you're in debt to pay the interest, after 16 years... let me give you a number, do you know how much you're getting paid? How much did you pay in 16 years? How much did a bunch of loan sharks in London get paid? 159 billion dollars paid, 159 billion dollars. It's not like you have a conscience. It's 159 billion dollars. A second Turkey would be built, a third Turkey would be built with 159 billion dollars. Think of a country, dear friends, and the executives who do all this take no responsibility. He's always creating one enemy, the enemy, the external enemy, that's all. Responsibility... he has no responsibility, thank God. Think of a country, dear friends, when 11 times in 16 years the education system changes, 11 times. And how can they use our own children as subjects? They used our kids as test subjects in 16 years. It's just, for God's sake, what kind of mother likes school when she sends her kid to school, when the father sends his kid to school? Think of a country, the state's autoimmune, the cosmic room, you hand it over to the terrorists, you hand it over to them, you give them all the secrets of the state, all the secrets of the state. And you're going to arrest the head of staff of that country as a terrorist, and you're going to put him in jail; think of a country like that. And what did we not give to that terrorist organization, the one who supported the state-run terrorist organization, the one who supported the era, so that corruption would not be exposed? Why are you doing this? He also reproached you. Think of a country, my friends. We will enter Syria in twenty-four hours. We will pray in Emevi Mosque. They said, "We will pray in twenty-four hours." They've put in measurements. But the same rulers, the same rulers, had to abandon their land, the land of the Shah shrine, their own land, and our homeland. It's a first in our history, friends, a government that leaves its own land. It's his land, it's his land. I'll die, I won't give you a gravel, I won't give you a gravel. (CHP cheers) We die there, a thousand people, 10,000 people, all together, but we don't leave our land.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0026par0075	Don't even say that! Don't say that, don't say that!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0024par0077	Don't nobody do hero literature to me, nobody do it. Think of a country...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0026par0079	Don't say that!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0024par0081	Everything I say is true.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0026par0082	Don't say that!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0027par0084	This is the President-General, be smart!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0028par0085	Watch where you're going!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0029par0086	Zibidi man!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0030par0087	Everything I say is true. If one of these executives wants to talk to me in front of Parliament, I'm ready. In front of me...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0031par0088	We saw what it was like on the night of the coup!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0030par0089	The future will say, we will sit here and talk, and he will come and answer my questions. He will say, "This is wrong." We will solve it. Think of a country, looking at who will be appointed by judges, not the Constitution, not the law, to know how to decide on any case.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0032par0092	Guys, please... Just a moment, Mr. President... Guys, please, let's just calm down.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0033par0095	It's a shame!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0032par0097	Guys, please listen to the preacher, let's calm down. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0033par0099	This is the President-General, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0032par0100	Friends, please listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0033par0101	This is the President-General.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0032par0102	Let's hear the Hatibi's speech calmly, and you'll answer later. Thank you. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0034par0105	That's why I say it's a coup budget, a budget for coup management. This budget is not prepared for a healthy democracy. The budget is therefore a poor budget. It's a budget for anyone who believes in democracy to say no. Either we move to democracy, and democracy comes to this country in a real sense. Or we give it to you. That's what we think. And whose budget is this? One question, that's the question. My dear friends, three parts of this budget benefit. Three parts of this budget benefit, so this budget is the budget of three parts. One is the budget of the palace. All manner of pomp, all kinds of spending, all kinds of waste, all sorts of things I'll accept, I'll do them. The palace has one hand in oil and one hand in honey. Believe me, God willing, even in the Tulip era, there was not so much glitter, not even in the Tulip era. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] They say to the citizen: "Dissign. " They say that savings can be rebuilt, my friends. You're gonna save money so the citizen can look up to you. What savings? A citizen's got money in his pocket and he's gonna save money? Well, the citizen thinks how to bring the head of the moon, he doesn't have any money to save, so what money is he going to save? Therefore, those who dwell in the summer palace, those who dwell in the winter palace, those who dwell in the flying palaces, never, ever save, they love to waste. Don't look at it. Waste is forbidden according to our belief, but they never give up on waste. My dear friends, now, if you say yes to this budget, you will raise the gentleman's salary from 59 thousand liras to $74,000, except for his pension, and then there's that, and there's not enough money, double stitches. I can't get along, he says. Dude, you don't pay for gas, you don't pay for food, you don't pay for airplanes, you don't pay for school, you don't have anything, you have one hand in the pot. What is this luxury, what is this love of money, where does it come from? I want the citizen to ask, the citizen has to ask, that democracy should come to this country. Palace: There is a perimeter around the palace, surrounded by it, these are the eating environments. Look, I'll tell you your name, the eating environment, it's called a gang of five in public. They get the biggest deals, the biggest deals. They get the biggest deals, how's that? They buy in dollars, not Turkish lira. They'll get a guarantee on the dollar, and if it goes down, the Treasury will pay for it. In dollars, there's travel money, there's tube money, there's everything in dollars, there's prices. Change the dollar for the citizen. When it comes to these things, go ahead with the dollar, brother. This budget is this budget. It's illegal to vote for this budget, it's illegal. By God, and by God, it is forbidden. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, they're building a bridge. Do you know how much it costs? You don't know. They're building a road. Do you know how much he paid? You don't know. They're building city hospitals. Do you know how much he paid? You don't know. They built an airport. Do you know how much it costs? You don't know, they can't tell you, they won't tell you. Well, whose money is it? Who's paying for them? That strange guru is paid with taxes paid by those citizens you often speak of. When it comes to taxes, they don't. You can't. Can you imagine how much bills I've been billing for all of this? Can you imagine a thousand lira worth of goods? Do you know that there are great advantages? Yeah, you're telling the citizen: cash the dollar. My brother, translate the contract into Turkish lira, convert the transition to Turkish lira, remove the guarantee. No, no... Why? E, these are from around the palace, their feeding, the feeding of the palace. The palace's feeding will do no good to this country, my friends. I swear to God, no good ever comes of it. And they have one advantage: the higher the exchange, the higher the profits. These are the ones who are happy with their lives. What was the third cut? The third part of this budget is for loan sharks, suppliers; it serves them. Citizens are in debt, tradesmen are in debt, farmers are in debt, industrialists are in debt, everyone is in debt, the state is in debt. My dear friends, in the first nine months of 2018, do you know how much interest is paid to a group of loan sharks in London, a handful of loan sharks? 9 billion 724 million dollars. How much during the AK PARTY administrations? I just told you, 159 billion $290 million. There's such a thing as mercy. Who does this budget work for, for God's sake? Who's this budget for? Let them go out and say, "These numbers are wrong. Let us know. Then we'll say, "Get these numbers off these websites, don't give them to anyone." And you're going to get your ass kicked here, and I did this, and that's what I did to the country. You ruined the country, man. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, guys, whether the dollar goes up or the dollar goes down, they're making a profit. Look, I'll give you a number: on 13 August, please, I beg you, take notes if you don't believe -- a loan shark came from London, brought $1 million to Turkey. He took away $1 million, turned it into Turkish lira over that day's currency. How much does he charge? $6,883,800 Turkish lira is paid when he brings in $1 million. I pass it, and after a hundred and fourteen days, a hundred and fourteen days later, December 3, 2018; he took it away, put it into the indicator bond, and that day he took the money of $7,384,675, and took the money of $7,384,675. 7 million, 384,675 liras, and he just put it into a dollar. When? December 3rd. Do you know how much he gets? $1,406,524. How much does he make? In a hundred and fourteen days, he won 40 percent on the dollar, 40 percent on the side. I say, these serve loan sharks; you don't believe them. Yeah, guys, look at these numbers. If I do not know, then know that some of you know the reckoning, and some of you know the book, and some of you are businessmen, and some of you are from the business world. The state, the government, the Republic of Turkey, has lost its economic independence, and this government, after 16 years, eventually brought in the huge Turkish Republic and handed it over to a handful of loan sharks. That's the spirit. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Foreign policy, for God's sake, goes Jamal Spooner on October 2nd, goes into the consulate, doesn't come out. He's being killed there on October 2nd. Everyone knows that. So there's a recording of the murder on October 2nd, October 2nd. Mr. Yasin Aktay is making a statement on the same day. We've notified the airports, we've notified the President, the Chief of Police. He says, "If the bird flies, we'll know." He says, "I tell you, he gives a statement." It's the same day that the killers committed the murder, and it's 21 o'clock. They're flying two private planes at 00. Why are they leaving? Who's allowing it? You listen to the voice, you know the murder, Cemal Spooner gets killed, why do you let him? On what grounds do you allow it? The consul goes on the 17th, 15 days later, 15 days later, and the consul walks away from the VIP. Now, they say, "Sir, hand them over to us." And Saudi Arabia says, "Come on, what to deliver, get in your way. I'm not giving them up." I asked the question, Mr. Erdogan tells me: "You went to Germany, you went to Vienna, you went to Vienna, what did you say? Tell me." I promise, in front of all of you, I promise you honor; I will come to Germany, Vienna, Cyprus, and tell you what I will talk about, but on one condition: Erdogan has released these murderers on what grounds, let him come out and tell me. On what grounds did he quit? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, let me tell you something embarrassing. France knows, England knows, America knows, all the countries of the world know how, who committed the murder, no one knows about us, we're not being given any information. Let's not give it to you, let's give it to you, let's give it to you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0035par0122	We have information.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0034par0123	As far as the media is concerned, that's my information. We all know the murder was committed, and Saudi Arabia already confessed. Why won't they give us information? Our Undersecretary of MIT runs to the U.S. to give information. Did the Undersecretary of MIT come to Parliament and give the commission any information? Don't you ask me, friends, is this Parliament second class Parliament? Are the lawmakers here a second-rate MP? You go and tell the others the whole story, and when it comes to our Parliament, you tape your mouth, so no one finds out here. Yeah, why hide what the world knows from us, why hide it from us? My dear friends, Mr. Erdogan said, "I don't know that the Undersecretary of MIT informed the Senate Intelligence Committee." No, my friends, he knows one thing, look, I'm telling you, he knows one thing. Why is he lying? I don't know. An Undersecretary of Mit will go unaware of the president of an MIT Undersecretary who is attached to him, informing some senators of the Intelligence Committee in the American Senate. If he has no knowledge, then a calamity will befall him, if he is lying. (CHEERING) That's not gonna happen! It's a shame, it's a sin. This state has a reputation, a reputation. Of course, he can take a leave of absence, give information, see, I'm not saying anything, but he'll inform his own Parliament first. You delivered the priest. Why did you hand over the priest, the American priest? What was he saying, Erdogan? On January 11th, he was saying: "As long as this poor man is on this mission, he's very poor, and I know he's too -- I won't give him a priest." What happened? You gave me a priest. So, what happened to the reputation of this huge Turkey? Oh, shame, isn't it a sin in this country? Pity, isn't it a sin for these people? Why are you giving it to me? Merkel... said he wouldn't. He said he wouldn't. The journalist said, "I won't give it to you." He said, "I won't give it to you." What happened? One night the indictment was filed, the next day there was a trial, he was released after the trial, another court was ordered to arrest him while he was being released, he got on a plane at the airport and went to Germany. What state do we live in? Even colonial states don't have a painting like that. Oh, my God! Yeah, it's a shame about our republican savings, our state savings, it's a sin. How do you allow it, how do you keep quiet? I'm not at ease with my conscience. Of course, it's a mistake, etcetera, but you're going to stand up straight, you're going to have a position of honor. Macron's on the phone, okay; Merkel's on the phone, okay; Trump's on the phone, over. The Garbians are inside, look, the sergeants are still inside, they're still not even on their case. There are hundreds of people who have no indictment right now, no indictments. Oh, shame, isn't it a sin for these people? What law, what justice? Sir, what do we want, dear friends? We're looking at all of this, but we're facing an economic crisis. We've prepared a 13-point text, 13-point text. We said, "If you obey 13 articles, we'll all get through this economic crisis together." First, gather the Economic and Social Council. It has to be collected every three months, a constitutional institution. The last time he met was February 5, 2009, when we entered 2019. For ten years, there's been no meeting of a board, friends, that needs to be collected every three months. Oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my Then why did you set up this institution? His employer, his employer, his farmer would come here and express his opinion. We said to protect the merit system, the government should have a merit system. We thought if there was a merit system, the government would turn up as a government. We said you're going to turn it over to your people, you're going to look at the person's integrity. We told him we weren't going to see if he was a partyie or a partyie. A state will be ruled within the Liatt system, and the institutions of the state will then exist. We said watch out for the rule of law. We thought it should be law enforcement. What law security, what rule of law, friends? One says it, the others throw it away. We said to watch out for the independence of the Central Bank. The Central Bank is independent in all the countries of the world. Look, there's been a final proposal of law, sir, all authority is given to Erdogan, including the Central Bank. Oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my You will reset our reputation in the world, if we already have a reputation left. We decided to move on to a rational hot money management. We said, "Warm money exploits Turkey, Turkey exploits Turkey, follow a rational policy." Ten cents' worth of change costs us $22 billion, friends, and the increase in change of 10 cents costs $22 billion. We said turn the tenders based on dollars into Turkish liras. It's a shame, turn it into Turkish lira. They say to the citizen: "Cash the dollar in his pocket." Look how patriotic you are. Why don't you tell me to buy billions of dollars? Why don't you try being a patriot, and you can go for Turkish? Turkish lira is second-rate money, second-rate money. The do-and-do, the tenders, the overpasses, the tube passes; all of this with dollars, friends, and the fee with dollars. The Public Contraction Act, we told you to obey it. Look, 186 times have been changed by the Public Contraction Act, 186 times, sometimes by notifications, sometimes by law. Why? Who do I give the job to, we set it up, it's over. There was something called a gang of fives; go on the Internet and you'll see that gang of fives, who they are. These are the government's biggest tenders. We said to protect the tax collector's will. Where the money is being spent, it needs to be well-checked. The Court must be truly independent. The Court is auditing Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We approve the budget, but we give control authority to the Court, a Parliamentary institution, but we don't, my friends. We told you to maintain budget discipline. Credit Guarantee Fund, his budget doesn't come here. Why isn't he coming? The Turkish Entity Fund, its budget doesn't come here. THE budget of the TOKI is not available here. Why are they friends? They don't trust you? Yeah, they don't trust you, they don't come here because they don't trust Congress. Get him in here. There's a thing called budget rights. Foreign policy has to change 180 degrees, foreign policy. Syria has to be contacted. If you are defending Syria's territorial integrity, you must sit at the table with Syria if you want to keep Syria from falling apart. They're talking through the back door, and they're talking to themselves. It's over, it's over, it's not. Foreign policy needs to be reinvented into a national identity, again. It's an unofficial national policy, and it needs to be reinvented into a national identity. With his power, with his opposition, we must become one in foreign policy. Uncontrollable debt... The main reason we've come to this point today is because the men lent us money, and now they've surrendered the government of the Republic of Turkey, and now the court government. Let's never fool each other, ever. They do what they say unconditionally. There are 80 million citizens, my friends. It's an unfair tax policy, tax paradise. This Parliament has done its duty in 2006. If you are starting a company in the gardens of taxes, I will receive taxes on the profits from there. But the tax paradise list needs to be published by the Council of Ministers. 2006, we come to 2019, they don't publish. Why don't they publish it? Because gentlemen have companies on tax islands, selling $15 million ships to a one-pound company. The Man Island thing is true to the core, it's all true. (CHP cheers) Sir, compensation... is not one, but one, if you don't make a thousand, you're out of it. I'll go after your rights and law, your unfinished orphan. $15 million, who owned this $15 million? What company was this? I asked him 50 times. Why don't you ask him, for God's sake? Well, isn't it the common duty of Parliament to protect the rights of an unfinished orphan? Do you know why $15 million comes through Man's Island? Five cents for not paying taxes to this government. You bring it from the nose of the minimum wager. Pay the tax. You bring it from the nose of the industrialist. But these gentlemen, the palace and the gangs around them, they're free to do all sorts of things, they don't pay taxes. Aren't you asking, for God's sake, if the group's vice presidents don't ask, in 2006, a law came out of this Parliament, and the year came in 2019, why don't you publish a list of tax gardens? But it doesn't work. Why? That's because he's been shot down there. There has to be a plan that prioritizes production, you're going to prioritize production. A country without production can't stand, dear friends. We asked you to save money on something else. Look, they've announced a 100-day program. Let me read a piece of the program: ▪ The way for public administrations to review their expenditures and increase savings in such a way is to determine a method, so how are we going to save money? You call a housewife, and I swear to God, she'll teach you all the ways, teach you all the ways, how to save money. Don't expect savings from citizens, the savings will start again, starting from the palace. Those ephemerals, dragon berries, you'll give them up. Why don't you just take the back of the minimum wage and save some money? Why don't you save some money? My dear friends, the last word to all who listen to us from here, to all my citizens who listen to us: From January 1, 2019, January 1, 2019, from January 1, there will be a minimum wage of 2,200 lira in all places of the Republican People's Party municipalities. (CHEERING) I'm telling you, we're gonna stand behind it. Earlier, in 2016, they had shown a low number, and in all our municipalities, the minimum wage will be 1,500 lira.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0036par0141	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0034par0142	Now, starting from January 1, 2019, the minimum wage in our municipalities and municipalities will be net 2,200 lira; this is our first condition. Our second prediction is that in municipalities that don't belong to us, but are going to win, we're not going to put anyone out of business, no one's bread, no vaccine, no business. (CHP cheers) So we won't get the rights, as long as you work, we, my friends, will all be behind you. Therefore, I declare the minimum fee from this bench: from January 1, 2019, there will be $2,200, tax-free, and when we buy new municipalities, there will be $2,200 in those municipalities, and no one will be fired. I'll guarantee it, and the House will guarantee it. Greetings and greetings to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0037par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0038par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0037par0149	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0038par0150	Mr. President, I listened carefully. They had a lot of rough pickings. It's not from the bench, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to clarify a few things.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0037par0151	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0039par0152	Let's talk about the Finance Minister, Mr. President, and he picked on us.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0040par0153	Mr. President, if this is going to go on in the budget, this budget is not going to go on the way you planned, just so you know.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0041par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. It is undoubtedly the presence of the opposition, along with the power that makes democracy a democracy a democracy. Of course, the opposition will voice any criticism of power, and it will be very heavy, and we will listen to all of this. Mr. President-in-Chief, I looked carefully as he was speaking here, for most of his one-hour speech, he actually wanted to address the AK PARTY Group and, I think, the people who voted for the EC PARTY. It's more of a body language that led to this group. I'd like to point out that the feedings of the palace -- in the nail -- are -- are the very serious walls in front of the communication that Mr. General President wants to establish. Trust me, he can't get his voice to us. You have to be careful with language, that's number one. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Second: Mr. President-General has drawn a picture of Turkey, a very dramatic painting. When we look at it, we've been crushing the population for 16 years, protecting the minority, sinking the country, everyone's miserable. [HIP rows ▪Bravobooks, applause!] Misfortunately, we serve loan sharks. I say this in the language of Mr. President General: I swear to God, if there was such a Turkey, he'd be Prime Minister, and we'd be saying the same thing as the opposition. There is no such Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0042par0161	Finish your words, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0041par0163	There have been elections in this country for 16 years. Our people are probably not masochists against those who persecute themselves.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0043par0164	Let the AK PARTY Group promise its own word to the President of the Group to speak, sir. They didn't promise him, he's playing a role here.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0041par0165	So either there's something wrong with the public's description of Turkey with these expressions, there's a problem. We don't think there's a problem with the public, the public is doing the right thing. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, one last thing: Mr. President says July 20th is a civil coup. Look, on July 20th, this Parliament declared the State of Emergency. Who's calling it? Parliament. So this is where we all come to get votes from the nation and represent the will of the nation. Every April 23rd, we come here, honoring this 90-year-old tradition. The same respect must be shown to the decisions made by Parliament. Otherwise, that respect won't be right. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0044par0170	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0045par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0044par0172	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0045par0173	I'd like to take advantage of Mr. Group President's rights.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0046par0174	He needs to give his reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0044par0175	Here you go. Please don't pick on me again, without arguing.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0047par0178	It's not my thing, Mr. President. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. President's speech includes messages for the members of the Justice and Development Party, as well as for the MPs from the body language, as well as from the differentials he calls them. However, he did not use a language that held them accountable or incriminating. On the contrary, he has given evidence of what happened in this land, and if an answer is given, he has waited for its answer. In his speech, Mr. Group President said, "There is no unfair tender." He did not say, "There is no waste in the palace." (HPP clapping in rows) There is no fugitive palace, flying palace, summer palace, ▪ There is no natural slaughter for them to build. He did not say, "There is no sign." He did not say, "There is no evidence." He did not deny the existence of the five gangs. If such a thing exists, the nation would not vote for us. Then the message is for the people starting today. On March 31st, Naci Bostancı is the first goal in front of everyone who has experienced these truths.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0048par0181	We'll be there April Fool's Day, April Fool's Day.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0049par0182	Our nation has been getting the message for 16 years, not today.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0047par0183	No, it's not.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0049par0184	Our people get the message all the time.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0047par0185	Mr. President, I'm not finished.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0049par0186	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0047par0187	When my first word was interrupted, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0049par0188	Excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0047par0189	It is not the Justice and Development Party Group, nor the Justice and Development Party, nor the five who have been fed by the palace, who have been deprived of the blood of the nation! [[From the CHP rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Mr. President, you were one of my last words, and I was his witness. On July 20th, you made a phone call to Mr. President and told him that the state of emergency will be declared. In a kind way, Mr. President, the country's process, the struggle against the coup, after the honorable posture, expressed how wrong this declaration of state of emergency was, and he said, "Sir, let someone defend democracy." We came here that day, we voted for democracy, not the State of Emergency, and we said we were against it. For two months, the State of Emergency declared for three months has made people cry, snorted them, regressed Turkey's economy, put Turkey at the top of the worst examples of human rights in the world, and got out of our hair by causing a disaster. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] From now on, no power in this country must live on the State of Emergency. In that case, let those who declare the State of Emergency stay away from the head of this country.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0050par0199	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker is Deputy Director of the Group and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0051par0202	Mr. President, we have begun negotiations with the Honourable Parliamentary Committee for the Budget Act of 2019. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I greet and greet our beloved citizens and your esteemed delegation with respect and conversation. As we begin with my words, our beautiful country, Turkey, our beloved ancestors, the union of our nation, our country, our sons who fought heroically for the defense of our country, our children who drank the martyrdom of our country, from Çanakkale to Sarıkamisha, from Sakarya, from Izkah to İzmir, and from the Battle of Liberation, and from our beloved martyrs, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our party, Basbug Alparsan Turkesh, through mercy and gratitude. We send our blessings to our armed forces, our security forces, who are now fighting terror across the border. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, budget law is one of the basic legislation and control activities of our Parliament. Parliament's budget rights are among the most important democratic principles and foundations. Our parliament is tasked by budget law to collect revenues, to make expenditures, to run the resources of the nation again for the needs of the nation. In this sense, budget rights are vital to balancing, auditing, setting social and administrative priorities. The source created by the farmer's, the tradesman's, the worker's, the officer's, the industrialist's and the sweat of the Turkish nation's nation will live as a budget law, with talks that will take 12 days from now. The budget is people's property, it's exponential. The budget is also a mirror and accounting for government activities. The budget seeks a cure for the problems of our citizens, an answer to their expectations. And as the National Movement Party, what we're looking for is strength, order, security, justice, prosperity, health, health, education, work, work. In this budget, we will seek the rights of our unsanctioned learning, our food and agriculture engineers, our veterinarians and our medics. We'll discuss our education. We're going to bring up the minimum wage, the pensioner, the worker, the officer's livelihood. We'll be the voice of our tradesman who's had a hard time. We'll pay for our farmer's hard work, his hard work. In doing so, we will not turn our direction away from the Turkish nation. Not the other one, not the other one. Your neighborhood, we're not going to enter the neighborhood race because we don't have another agenda or agenda. We can't share any informel structure or organisation in the affairs of the state outside the law. We can't let the national entity, built with the blood of the martyrs, be used in vain as a trophy. He will take possession of the values that are in the hands of our martyrdom, and we will call them steadfastness, unity, and brotherhood with love. Dear lawmakers, there is a picture of information asymmetry against legislation on the use of such important budgetary rights. Of course, it is a constitutional right to understand and analyze the budget for our Parliament and to change the budget when necessary. Both bodies adopted the same fiscal policies due to legislature and executive organs in the Parliamentary government system, due to the same political party or coalitions, but the presidential legislature will be able to prioritize its own priorities in the budget with the resources provided by the government system. In this framework, the legislature should be able to study the budget in detail, access information on the budget, comprehensive, accurate, and timely. In the Plan and Budget Commission, we have a detailed review of budget proposals and the ability to shape these proposals -- as of last semester -- it's weak, there are thousands of layouts and transcripts in the budget, and we have thousands of pages of books on budget proposals. The difficulty with consolidating all this data by lawmakers also reduces the capacity of our Parliament to use its budgetary rights. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has to be satisfied with the information the administration gives for the budget. Here, to address this information asymmetry, the establishment of a future budget office in the Plan and Budget Commission must also be established because the budget rights are not only a pre-approvement, but also the control of the implementation results. However, the role of parliament on the budget can be guaranteed through supervision. The control of legislation over the budget is one of the factors that measure the democratism of the management systems. The scope of the budget, timing, and procedures are set in our constitution and laws. The scope of the budget must also be developed, as well as the means and means of further involvement in the process of parliament, which has the right to budget on behalf of the nation. Parliament's budget rights are an area that must be developed within the framework of the principles of balance, control and division of forces as the basis of the presidential government system. Dear lawmakers, before and after the July 15 traitorous coup attempt has shown us all how important the mentality of running the state is to the state consciousness of our country. The state is the organized state of the nation. For the Turkish nation, the state is a source of happiness, a guarantee of unity, freedom and future. When Turkish state philosophy is defined by concepts such as the government, it is the law, it is the law, it is the law, it is the law, it is the province, it is the law. The basis of the state's long-term understanding must first be sought in this historical continuum. The Turkish nation is a nation devoted to independence. Our nation has seen its fate as one and the same with the states it has built throughout history. The stateless nation, the nation without nation, has never existed in the history of the Turk. Today, being a state is a matter of beka, a struggle for existence. Our goal is to ensure that our existence as a nation and as a state is not compromised. We advise those who fail to comprehend the support sensitivity of the National Movement Party to look at the matter with a sense of history. People with memories are called people. The Turkish nation is a nation with a memory. In this framework, MPs, 93 Wars, the First World War of the Balkans in 1912, the First War in 1914, and the coup attempt to strike us immediately with political blind fights, Constitutional fights, revolutions, coups and homeland casualties, the state that has been in chaos, the nation that has been in chaos since 1877, the nation that has been in chaos for years, the terrorist attacks we've been exposed to, and the coup attempt against traitors in July 15, 2016. So these events that we've been going through over the last hundred and fifty years that we've been trying to count in these headlines are more than enough to give us the warning and understanding of the beca. When we rule the state, when we make decisions with our political identity, when we take steps, when we speak, won't the thousand stories we've lived in the past give us a share? You have to understand the Beka sensitivity of the National Movement Party in this frame. All politicians, scientists, media, artists, businessmen, product, the entire nation, especially those who rule the state, we all have to make up our minds. The basics of a good government administration are clear. Law and justice, trust, driver's license, pleasure and property; not for personal gain, but for public benefit. As a result, we need to get our country back on its feet. We must completely rule out law and quality in public administration, especially the management system, and eliminate the state from being a structure where the formal structures will be donated. In order to ensure that, the driver's license and integrity of people who will be assigned to public administration must be considered to be of utmost importance. Respected MPs, politics, above all, are the work of creating solutions, responding to society's demands and implementing its own programme. To us, the subject of our politics is the people, the object, the state, the burden of democracy and the sentence of the nation. Getting caught in the whirlpool of daily political disputes takes politics out of a democratic race and competition, turns politics into a fighting area, into a blind fight, a deaf dialogue. It's not politics, it's not human, it's moral and it's not national, it's political, it's political. If we only reduce politics and opposition to opposition to power or even opposition to power, if we're satisfied with this, you'll condemn the opposition to political infertility and to the brandage of power, your mind, your mind, your tongue, your struggle, as we drag it into a dead end. The opposition is the most important element of politics, as it is responsible for ruling the country well; it is also an early warning centre with constructive criticism. Neither should power act with arrogance of power and compromise, nor should opposition be trapped in the narrow patterns of an opposition complex. As the National Movement Party, we are doing politics with these principles; we are acting on principles, not conjunctural. We are the National Movement Party, my country and my nation first. We are taking positions and positions in the direction of our political route. We sit in the stands against the riots, against the cross, against everything. We don't understand. We think about our nation's wishes and expectations, we produce politics, we take stances because we love the Republic of Turkey, the Turkish nation for a commitment. The mind feeds on our world's Kutadgu Bilig, Dede Korak, Nutuk, Nine Light, and the national sense of history. We are the steeled will of the existence of the Turkish nation that has carried its thousands of years into the 21st century. Members of parliament, the great Turkish nation -- in the context of this policy that I'm trying to sum up -- we can say that as the National Movement Party, we see the facts of the country and the world, we predict them, and we take a position. We're looking at all the issues yesterday, today, tomorrow, in perspective, in the national sense of history. As the National Movement Party, we contribute to the solution of problems with a primitive and responsible attitude; we take initiative; we take responsibility; we control our own agenda. The geostrategic position of our country, the political, economic and social conditions we live in, is of extraordinary importance that we are all united in the fundamental issues of political institutions and politicians, especially those in responsible positions, in an environment where our region is almost in a state of fire, in which the world is almost in chaos. This understanding also constitutes the spirit of the Cumhur Alliance. It is a key priority for the presidential government system to be established with all its institutions and rules. While the National Movement Party is doing politics with that understanding, we are also mobilising with our nation's troubles, wishes, demands, and expectations, we are mobilising to address the problems of all social communities, workers, civil servants, pensioners, farmers, business, women, children, and young people. The National Movement Party's word is word, it's bond. We stand by our commitments to our election statement and our proposals of the law, we follow.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0052par0222	EYT...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0051par0223	In terms of EYT, additional indicators, parole reductions and other issues, we are the owners, followers, and supporters of every issue.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0052par0225	He's right at the station, he'll be surprised in court.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0051par0226	In this regard, we must all provide a consensus and agreement that the laws that will be passed from parliament will be enforced in a reasonable and healthy manner by the governing -- the ruling -- and all parties together. It is futile to undermine the Cumhur Alliance, to put their minds into their own irresponsible, populist, abuse lanes, and false propaganda against us. These footworks are empty desires to undermine the presidential government system and the Republic Alliance. Today, when we understand our 50th year, we can proudly say that the Nationalist Movement Party has always been a party that solves crises, solves problems, and produces solutions. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the important events we had until July 15th require radical reforms to exit the chaos our country wants to be dragged out of. Before July 15th, especially in the 2007 presidential election and immediately with the referendum on the election of the President by the people, we began to see the pioneers in 2007 and warned them as the Nationalist Action Party that the election of the President had to be resolved by the 2014 presidential election following 2007, which clearly showed itself, causing a crisis in the administration system. The presidential government system has been one of the most important management reforms in our republic's history. The distinction of forces has been made clear. Legislature, executive and judicial bodies have been created a system for stronger, more independent, more efficient balance and control mechanisms. The trick is that it's up to the responsible to run the system well. And as the National Movement Party, we're doing a great deal of that. The fact that the presidential government system is placed on a healthy ground with all its institutions and rules, and that the system operates with all its elements is a matter that we are sensitively concerned about as the National Movement Party. In this process, it is necessary to address problems that have become chronic with their politicians, NGOs and their private sector, to avoid tension and polarisation, to have national identity, national culture and national presence, to strengthen unity and unity. The presidential government system is an exemplary management system that will reflect national will in the most obvious way on public administration through political and social reconciliation. The system was built on four main pillars, based on clear distinctions of three forces: strong Parliament, strong governance, national state, democratic stability. The presidential system, born of the conscience of the people of St. Turk, is a guarantee of our state's life, our nation's unity, our country's integrity, our future and our sovereignty. This system is an advanced move by the Turkish nation from the history filter to the 21st century, native, national. This system is Turkey's strategic institutional structure in the fight against nations. With this system, it is the primary goal of the Cumhur Alliance to establish the future's strong and great Turkey, protecting the future's sovereignty and future. After all, this system is proof of the democratic age of the Turkish nation. On this occasion, we would like to remind you that there has been a new political climate with the Presidential government system and the Republic Alliance, which is based on it. Now the physics of politics has changed and the chemistry has changed. In new politics, there is no room for inconsistencies, political blind fights, political alienation, and a break from reality. Reverend lawmakers, we live in a very important geopolitical and strategic geography, and we know that for centuries there have been accounts of imperial forces around us. Turkey's enemies do not often hesitate to try what they could not do yesterday in Serv. For this reason, our country is constantly in the target of political, economic, social and terrorist attacks. In particular, I wish we had time to consider what we've been going through in the last four years, but in headlines, I'd like to reminisce. On October 6, 7, 2014, Ayn al-Arab, a.k.a. Kobani, killed 50 of our citizens. Starting on July 20, 2015, the PKK, which has called for the end of the solution process, has been subjected to low attacks and has given 1,178 martyrs in the six months period. Again, when we consider the invasion and rebellion attempts of the imperialist-backed terrorist organization, which has influenced some of our cities and counties, the dug-out ditchs, the barricades, the tunnels, the rigged explosives, we see this fierce and difficult struggle. In addition, Turkey's democracy was wanted to be destroyed by the coup attempt of the traitorous terrorist organization, on July 15, 2016, to be brought down by instructions from across the ocean, Turkey to chaos, an internal turmoil. The owners of the plan -- the PKK, ISIS -- have many cards that are thought to be different, but serve the same purpose. The Republic of Turkey is engaged in an intense struggle with these terror tongs that are out of bounds. In the face of all these complex and coordinated terrorist attacks and sieges, Turkey has successfully carried out the Firat Shield and Olive Dallı Operations against the PKK's extended PYD terror organization on our southern borders; again, the fight against terrorist organizations such as PKK, the PKK in the country continues today with the same determination, relentlessly and successfully. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that we need a multi-dimensional perspective on the fight against terrorism that needs long-term analysis. On August 6, 2012, we proposed a crescent-shaped security belt from Afrin to Kandil, to prevent terrorism and border crossings. This warning is one of the key stones of the current struggle. Our security forces have successfully battled terror organizations on the legitimate ground that have set eyes on our national ranks. Everyone has to look at their choice, their place, their judgment, their accounting. There is no neutral zone between terror and security. It is a matter of defending Turkey's support, national and historical rights. We're on the side of this, and we're gonna be in this fight until the end. Mr. President, for 12 days, we will discuss the economic demands and expectations of our shop, our employee, our farmer, our producer, our industrialist, our pensioner, our officer. As we have done in the commission, we will have some criticism, warnings, and suggestions. The real goal of the economy is human, just like politics. A human economy should be based on development before it grows. In development, the goal should be for society to lead a more prosperous life. We regret to say that Turkey still looks like a country that consumes more than it produces and spends more than it earns. We must quickly complete our structural reforms, move on to the production economy. It also has the obligation to conduct economic policies with a complete understanding, in terms of development perspective. In economics, we have to give up retail understanding; the economy is a whole, we can't ignore the other data as we fix one data. The economy, however, is not just numerical data; it is law, justice, education, youth, security, peace, total nation. Therefore, the dialectic relationship between economic elements must not be overlooked. For development, we need to bring Turkey's economy to a national government. The independence of a country that has failed to establish its national industry, its national production mechanism, is at stake in the present age. In the past two years, we've had a difficult time financially, and we've been subjected to economic operations in the continuation of the July 15 coup attempt and occupation. Thankfully, we've become one with the government, the nation, and we've resisted these operations with the awareness of national resistance. Structural weaknesses and disorders in the economy have given imperial focus and their domestic subcontractors an opportunity for economic attack. We have no choice but to fully nationalize the economy to make sense of our nation's stable stand against these attacks. No one should seek help from the crisis. No matter how he loses power or loses power, he must not be called. The future of the Turkish nation should not be left at the mercy of the hot money focus, the appetite of currency speculators, the invention of interest and Rant lobby, to the will of labour thieves. The independent economy and independent finance are independent Turkey. A national economy is the economy that produces, develops, plans investment and consumption measures in rational thresholds, powered by its own dynamics, sustains its national and spiritual properties. We have to bring our industry, science and technology to an advanced level quickly. The employment problem is one of our major problems that is expected to be resolved. Agriculture and animalism must be strengthened. The worker, the worker, the officer must be brought to a peaceful and secure economic environment. In addition, we have a reasonable obligation to meet the expectations of social communities by challenging budget resources and budget priorities a little more. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. It was the whole land. He said, "He has started a new struggle, resistance, and resurrection." We have to do the same thing today.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0053par0241	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0051par0242	We need to spread our defenses and our moves from all nationals to foreign policy to economics, industry to art, education to agriculture. We must build the great and powerful Turkey together because this country is ours, we all live in its mother's lap, this roof brings us all together. We must work tirelessly, without complaining, without looking back, in the spirit of heart mobilization for the beautiful tomorrows of the Turkish nation. We can think differently, we can have different expectations, we can keep different teams, but we have no choice but to say my country first. Our meeting place is the great Turkey, and our call is in the language, the mind, the union. The nationalist movement will continue to carry out its mission with its historical vision in a blessed direction. We'll walk in our hearts with the idea of infraction. As long as it doesn't come between us, as our future poet Mehmet Akif puts it, as long as our hearts are strong. It must not be forgotten that when the Turkish nation was together, they formed great civilizations, changed the course of history, sealed the world. In this direction, we'll be pursuing the survival of our country, the welfare of our nation, social, political, economic compromise, rights, law. Turkey is our side, the Turkish nation is ours. And We will make our people and our nations, the ones whom we used to claim to be mensubhan (i.e. menses of menses of menses of menses of menses of menses of menses of menses of menses of menses of menses of menses of menses of mens of menses I salute your grand delegation and the great Turkish nation, with the wish of the 2019 budget to bring good results.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0054par0246	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Deputy Director of the Group and Mr. Muhammad Levent Bulbül of Sakarya. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0055par0250	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Accounting Law bill. I salute the high council and the mighty Turkish nation. Mr. President, good lawmakers, budgets are a symbol of the independence and sovereignty of a nation, a legal document that emerges as a result of long and demanding work. Budgets must be carefully prepared and implemented under any circumstances. A year's income, spending forecasts, and goals arise with the budget's preparation. Because there is no other option for the functioning of the state, service to our nation, and the implementation of investments. Dear MPs, the budget we are discussing is the 96th budget of the Republic of Turkey, except for temporary budgets, and the first budget of the Presidential government system. The National Movement Party sees and ultimately supports this first budget presented to parliament by the President in the new system. We'd like to express that the commission's work has been matured during budget negotiations. I'd like to thank the lawmakers who've been working hard on these studies, the authorities who have participated in the execution, and the senior members of the Parliament. It is our hope that by this law, with all the communities in our country, with the ability of the state to solve the condensed problems, to eliminate tension and polarization, to consolidate unity and unity with the nation. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our country and region are going through an extremely difficult process. Our country, which is wanted to be cornered in politics and social areas, is also struggling with economic manipulations. After the coup attempt, the activities of those who seek to undermine the stability, dignity, and integrity of our country continue without slowing down. It is vital to be on the side of our state and nation during this period of distress, to develop a common, national attitude in the face of threats and dangers toward our government and our nation. In times like these, the day-to-day policies, the self-centered political accounts, the lax and non-history policies will hurt our state and our nation. At this point, the national attitude and stance must dominate our politics. National stances and stances should be seen not only as the joint responsibility of the political structures that hold power and majority, but as the responsibility of all those who have the opportunity to represent for politics in Turkey. In view of the developments in our region, it is clear that the blood-soaked and murderous terrorist organizations operate in our region as the deputy of major forces or states around the world. The world is a scene of events similar to the events before World War II and World War II. After World War II, the international system collapsed, and the already controversial international law norms became ineffective. Under the circumstances, the state of the Republic of Turkey faces many hostile attempts from east to west, north to south. Our country has been fighting the most serious threat and danger spiral since the First World War. Turkey must be able to move on freely and independently during such a difficult process. For this reason, it must be our most honorable goal to live with dignity in the land for the next thousand years by mobilising national resources. In this framework, the Presidential government system, which we view as the third term of Turkish democracy, needs to walk more firmly into the future. In reaching this goal, consultation and integrity are two essential factors. Turkish states have always been strong and powerful, with the understanding of consultation and merit that is important for the Turkish state tradition, while Turkish states have been subjected to great defeats and sorrows in the days when truth and consultation have been ignored or ignored. The National Movement Party has always stressed the importance of merit and consultation, and has given great importance to the state of Turkey's state's government's administration for tomorrows. Again, it has always been constructive in the national issues that concern our country and our nation, and has fulfilled its political responsibility with a kind and constructive understanding of the common position of all communities in national matters. Dear MPs, the presidential government system, which we have now discussed its first budget, has been approved on 16 April 2017 to submit to the approval of our nation. On June 24, 2018, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was elected on July 9, 2018. The government system, envisioned in the Constitution of 1982, has become a system capable of producing crises. According to classical parliamentary systems, this system has caused the confusion of power in running the president's powers and responsibilities, due to the fact that they have been widely held. After a system crisis in 2007 turned into a system crisis, the Constitutional amendment decided to elect the President by the public. It was expressed in 2007 by our party, which could lead to more serious administrative crises after the change of the 1982 Constitution, which was already available for duality in its current form. Finally, in 2014, the President was elected by the public for the first time. However, a troubled governance order, which has completely surfaced, has passed on to the verb, and the problems that the National Movement Party pointed to in 2007 have become reality. The distorted system has become more likely to create problems than to solve problems, as these conditions have also set the stage for the traitorous coup attempt on July 15, 2016. As the National Movement Party has done so many times in its political past, it has also expressed the necessity of a constitutional amendment in order to eliminate the system's openings and obstructions, stressing that this change is an indispensable need for the back of the state of the Republic of Turkey. The Republic of Turkey has proposed that this change be made in the political consensus of the National Movement Party in order to maintain the state's state in its understanding for a period of time and to preserve the basic qualities of our republic. The proposed constitutional amendment with the Justice and Development Party, which responded positively to our party's proposal, was passed through the Turkish Grand National Assembly and later approved by our nation on 16 April 2017 by a public vote. The presidential government system, which has been in force since 9 July 2018, is a system in accordance with the tradition of the Turkish state, the philosophy of governance. The radicalization and institutionalization of this system is vital. In the new era, regulations in the process of legislative, executive and judicial integration must be carried out in accordance with the presidential government system's purpose for success. In the presidential government system, it has become possible for Turkey's Grand National Assembly to pass the law in accordance with the principle of a more prominent division of forces. In the system where the executive cannot offer law except in budget and precise account law, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been able to carry out its legislative function much more effectively. Again, the power of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to issue a decree on the rule of law that bypasses the law has been revoked. The provisions for the state-of-the-art rule of law will be nullified if Turkey is not approved by the Grand National Assembly within three months. The control functions of the Turkish Grand National Assembly have become stronger in the new system. The written question, general discussion, parliamentary research, parliamentary investigations have enabled Turkey's Grand National Assembly to have an effective control function as well as a law enforcement function. The new system has opened the door for political parties to enter parliamentary general elections by making alliances. Nine political parties are represented today under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, thanks to the alliances that first took place in the June 24th election. Again, in parallel with the rise in Turkey's population, the number of deputies has increased from 550 to 600. In light of these developments, it is imperative to say that in the past period of trying to ensure stability in governance, the sacrifice of the representation of justice is guaranteed in the new era, and the lack of material representation has been eliminated. The Civil Code, called the silent constitution, which regulates the working and essentials of parliament, establishes the legal rules of making rules. Some changes have been made in the Parliamentary Council's syntax since the presidential government was introduced. As we have expressed in this transition, the Nationalist Action Party believes in the spirit of the new era and the need to prepare a new Civil Charter in accordance with its strong understanding of parliament. In this way, the Turkish Grand National Assembly will also be strengthened and will continue to be the guarantee of Turkish democracy during a re-establishment of the judiciary. Dear lawmakers, strong state, strong governance and the understanding of democratic stability are the cornerstones of the new system. The presidential government system is a system of political and social consensus. In this system, the head of direct choice of national will -- the electable of the President -- is an undisputed and direct basis for legitimacy. The ability of the public to choose the head of direct governance in the new system guarantees stability in governance and does not restrict the understanding of justice in representation of the legislature. Again, in the new system, government debates, coalition negotiations, parliamentary transfers to establish government are history, with the possibility of management or system crisis reduced to minimum, according to the previous system. As an example of the June 24th elections, the Turkish voter chose the President with a legitimate and transparent election that would allow no hesitation, and thus the administration, the government, has left the chest. After the election, the President took his oath and was given no opportunity for a administrative gap by forming his new cabinet. In the presidential administration system, the state is much faster to organize and make decisions. With a new system focused on solutions and providing political, economic and democratic stability, a much more dynamic state organisation will emerge. In this scope, we find it important and valuable that the nine policy boards, the four presidential offices, the 1 Executive Affairs Presidency, the 11-nation and the 16-nation presidential organization structure and the administrative organization are quickly and smoothly formed. Dear lawmakers, some changes have also been made in the judiciary in the presidential government system, which has entered into effect with the constitutional amendment. The independence of the judiciary, as well as its neutrality, is bound by the Constitution. Military high courts have been removed, military courts have been closed, except for disciplinary courts. It has been decided that military courts can only be set up in battle. Two elected members of the Supreme Court of the Constitution have been removed from the Supreme Court, reducing the total number of members from 17 to 15. In the new system, the number of members elected by the President has been reduced from 14 to 12. The unjust criticism and accusations that almost all members of the Constitutional Court were elected by the President do not reflect the truth. Because members of the Constitutional Court are elected for 12 years, and at the same time, it is impossible to elect all members by the same President. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which existed earlier, has been known to have been subjected to infiltration and manipulation by terrorist organisations such as Å, who have hidden and treacherous intentions. To eliminate this structure, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been restructured under the name of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Under the amendment to the Constitution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been authorized to ensure the election of members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors in a transparent and accurate manner. In this framework, the seven-member majority selected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is sought. In the new system, all actions and procedures of the President who had not previously been subject to judicial supervision are subject to judicial supervision. The President, who has no criminal responsibility in the previous system for any crime other than treason, can be referred to the Supreme Court in the new system, with only the majority of the parliamentary blame, with two-thirds of the time being referred to the Supreme Court. With the President's criminal responsibility, the criminal responsibility of the vice president and ministers is also organised in our Constitution. We hope that these regulations that we've expressed will serve to establish a more neutral and independent judiciary for Turkey, that it may be able to achieve justice that we need more than ever. Following the July 15 traitorous coup attempt, investigations and expulsions of judicial members in the fight against the province of Turkey have left a large portion of the prosecutor's staff empty. There have been numerous appointments for these opening staffs -- interns and lawyers who have completed five years in the field -- before they finish their residency. We also observe some negative consequences of these measures, which must be taken under extraordinary conditions that our country is in. Lacks of professional merit and experience can lead to reductions in the confidence of our citizens in justice as they reflect on judicial decisions. We would like to express that the necessary measures must be taken. After the Turkish nation made the state of Anatolia a homeland, it faced many attempts to rebel and attempt to keep the Turkish state busy, to prevent its development and growth. At times when the government was weak and lax, these attempts resulted, causing the state to be shaken, regressed, or even disbanded. Today, the state of the Republic of Turkey is the target and domain of many terrorist organisations. The links between the states in which we have an ally on paper and the terrorist organisations operating in Turkey are well-known. In Turkey, domestic collaborators are trying to hide these dirty alliances and ties by the hands of unofficial elements to draw a veil over our nation's eyes. It is my pleasure to express that our nation has noticed the game that has been played after all the threats and attacks. It should be known that Shark politics, the Shark issue, and Sevr's logic, which desires the removal and destruction of the Turkish nation from the territory of Asia Minor and Front Asia, continue just as it did. In response, the Turkish nation will overcome and nullify these hostile ambitions with its wisdom and understanding. Thank God the national spirit is at the highest levels both in our country and in our nation. In the online period we've been going through, the height of consciousness and national reflex has been a nightmare of terror centers and structures behind them. Our state, military, intelligence, police, gendarmes, Coast Guard, security guards, all of its elements, eliminate attacks on the Turkish nation and state. In the fight against terrorism, the state of the Republic of Turkey is the best defense and the best defense is the attack. With its understanding, it has mobilized to eradicate terror in the swamp. Only the number of terrorists that were neutralized within the country's borders in 2018 is 1,289. Operation Firat Shield, which Turkey has launched to eliminate terror attacks on it using its right to self-defense, has been neutralized as well as 1.775. There's no other army or military force in the world that has neutralized more DEAT terrorists than the Turkish army. With the Firat Shield region cleared of terror, the region began to live in peace and security, and the attacks on Turkey from this region ended. Turkey has turned to Afrin (Afrin) to deal with terrorist attacks on our land after Operation Fırat Shield, in order to ensure the safety of our citizens' lives and property. From the beginning of the 1980s, the terrorist organisation has continued its activities in Afrin (Afrin) and has identified Afrin and its environment as the end of its terror corridor. He attempted to attack Turkey in a series of raids against Turkey and gave armed training to terrorists in this area. The region, which is strategically important in Turkey, Russia and the US triangle, has also come to a position where the United States has strategically supported terrorist organisations. In this incident, Turkey used its right to self-defense due to international law to rid the region of terrorist organizations to organise Operation Olive Dalli. This operation has bound our nation together, and despite all international reactions and disintegrating activities of collaborative political centers inside, it has been a major success. As part of this operation, 4,774 PKK/PYD-YPG terrorists have been neutralized. The Republic of Turkey has also cleared this region of terrorists and secured the peace and security environment, allowing the return of more than 200,000 Syrians in total to the area of Afrin and Fırat Shield. As part of the fight against terrorism, Turkey, Menbic, east of Fırat, and Kandil are also obliged to destroy terror nests. With the encouragement of the United States of America, we cannot be expected to tolerate efforts to establish a potential terrorist zone in the region. The most recent surveillance points set up on PKK/PYD elements in eastern Fırat are a threat to the state of the Republic of Turkey, an issue that endangers our security. These hostile and terrorist activities are important evidence to justify Turkey's involvement in the region. In this framework, God willing, in Menbic, east of Fırat, and in Kandil, the homes of terror will be destroyed. The fight against the most sneaky terrorism the state of the Republic of Turkey has ever encountered must be carried out with determination, without compromise, without diluted. Dear lawmakers, recent trade wars and economic struggles around the world have affected many developing states, such as Turkey. Among these countries, Turkey is the country with the highest share of the negatives. What has happened here, especially in our region, has been a major financial burden on our country, with developments threatening Turkey's sovereignty rights and national security and economic manipulations targeting Turkey itself on a global scale. Global forces in the world don't only intervene with their armies against governments that don't act on their desires and goals, who are unpredictable and prone to power. These interventions often take place in the form of economic attacks, and are being manipulated by the internal dynamics of the countries. In our recent history, we see all kinds of instruments of chaos for Turkey have been activated. Finally, economic attacks have been carried out on Turkey by organised global focals in pre- and after June 24th elections, through courtship and interest. The current vulnerability of our economy in this process has increased the damage, inflation has increased, growth has decreased, unemployment has risen, economic distress has entered. This is still happening, with serious collection problems in the real sector, there is a cash shortage. Debt interest rates for Turkey are increasing, and the higher the interest, the more expensive it is to take advantage of financing resources. According to official reserve assets, according to January 2017, our reserves were reduced by 26.5 per cent, reduced to 84.7 billion dollars in September, which amounted to 86.2 billion dollars in October. Increased foreign currency is dry and interest-related and the loss of value in Turkish lira has forced commercial enterprises into difficulties, input and resource costs have increased. In the process, many companies seem to be applying for concordato. SMEs and tradesmen seem to be struggling with much more than they can carry and cope with. During this period, the debt of households has risen to a high level, with the number of people with consumer credits and credit card debts reaching 30 million. Inflation has risen rapidly under the influence of the increase in the wolf, reaching the highest figures seen in the last 15 years. Food inflation has increased over average inflation. The Central Future Programme, covering 2019-2021, was announced on 20 September 2018 as the New Economic Programme. The new Economic Programme shows that the frameworkd goals and budget proposal are compatible. The macroeconomic goals set out in the New Economic Programme, which has been established on the basis of stabilisation, discipline and change, are generally realistic, except in some areas. With this programme, growth in the economy is slowing down, and the current rate of GDP is planned to be reduced to 3.3, in 2019; to 2.6, in 2021. National income per person is seen to rise from $9.385 to $10,973 in 2021. Our assessments show that there is a very limited increase in exports at a time when exports need to be supported. It is also understood that the increase in imports is first estimated at 3.2 per cent; then 3.1 per cent. The unemployment rates are expected to be 12.1 per cent in 2019 and 10.8 per cent in 2021. These are optimistic rates, we think. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party on June 24, 2018, we have stated in our election statement that Turkey needs to develop measures in the short term, respectively. Although we may not be able to get the majority alone in the House after the election, we are always determined to act in a sense of politics that is realistic, not troublemakers, solutions. In this framework, we think that the issues that concern the welfare of our nation, such as incentives to contribute, increase domestic savings, reduce import dependency, provide the necessary support for the producer, create a fair tax system, spread the tax system, fair distribution of public investments, agriculture and animalism reform, labour market and labour reform should be immediately resolved and implemented.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0056par0295	Yes, wrap it up, please. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0055par0297	As the National Movement Party, we would also like to point out that we can take the necessary steps and take responsibility to ensure that compromise can be achieved and that the solution can be revealed. The purpose of the MHP is not to appear to be doing things in the market, but to make a sincere effort to resolve the problems that our citizen is suffering and complaining about. And it would be useful to relaunch it here. The Nationalist Movement Party is behind and follows his promises. He's got his own agenda as a party. We will never act together with structures that we see as flu, that we are not in the union of understanding and goals. In the 27th term, the National Movement Party will continue its determined and uncompromising stand to achieve its goals with national and domestic understanding by sticking to the spirit of the Cumhur Alliance. Dear lawmakers must make the most important development in national education in order to achieve Turkey's goals. We support the goals set out in the 2023 Education Vision Document recently presented to the public. It is imperative that our generations grow up to be moral and working generations who absorb national and spiritual values, who know how to take advantage of scientific and technological possibilities. The effects of moral erosion in the world's societies will be destroyed by the way our children are combined with cultural and civilized codes. This land has grown worldwide values that will be regarded as a source of knowledge and wisdom from the past to the present. Throughout our Republic history, the Turkish nation was constantly trying to engage in artificial agendas at its most sensitive times, just at the exact moment when it would rear its back. The agendas created in these processes are almost like poison in the blood of the Turkish nation, our people's eyes are blackened, and everyone looks at each other as enemies. For example, if you defend Ataturk, the Republic, you will become an enemy to the Ottomans, if you defend the Ottomans, you will become an enemy to Ataturk, you will not be a middle enemy to them. The fitness that has been carried out in our nation has spread like an evil ur. The Turkish nation was provoked by these trials, turned against each other, resulting in great strife and controversy and even coups. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Okay, I'm done.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0057par0303	Yes, your time is up, please, thank you, General Assembly...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0055par0304	The last two paragraphs remain, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0057par0305	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0055par0306	Thank you. In times when Turkey has to deal with the challenges it faces, such trials have led Turkey astray, preventing it from achieving its goals. What needs to be done is for people and generations to take full possession of these values. As our President-in-Chief, Mr. State Gardensman, the nationalist movement is the steel rope between Koppe and Monumentepe. As this steel rope grows stronger, our nation will look to the future with greater confidence, so that Ataturk will be ours, Sultan Abdulhamit and Fatih will be ours, and Sultan Alparslan will be ours. With these thoughts, I salute your grand delegation, and wish that the budget law of 2019, which is being discussed, and the final account law of 2017, should bring blessings for our country.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit02spe0058par0311	Thank you, Mr. Nightingale. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0058par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We are continuing with the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the Talks of the Final Account Law of 2017. The commission is in place. On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, the group will speak for Deputy President and Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0059par0007	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on behalf of the valuable lawmakers, the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, and the GOOD PARTY Group on the 2017 Central Management Computation Act. I salute you all. We're not talking about the budget, we're talking about the economy, you know? Because the budget tells you so well how the economy fell apart when you looked at the numbers. I'm going to give you a single number: 65 billion dollars spent on investments, and $117 billion earmarked for debt interest, so we've invested $65 billion in this budget, and $117 billion in interest. So I draw your attention, not to pay the debt, but to the interest of the debt taken. The debt stays in place, it stays in place. Now, I'm asking you, is this the budget or the economy we're talking about here today? It's up to you to decide. Everywhere we go -- it's happening to you too -- they ask, "What will happen to this country?" A similar situation has occurred to the late 9th President, Solomon Demirel. I'll tell you an anecdote like that: journalists ask you: "Mr. Demirel, how is the state of the country?" If you want me to answer in one word, fine, but if you want me to answer in two words, it's not good. I'll tell you in three words, this country is in bad shape. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] In fact, Turkey's budget tradition goes back a long way, a country with a fiscal discipline tradition that we can express for hundreds of years. The financial discipline of the Ottoman Empire continued with the republic. The Ottoman Empire ruled the continents with its financial discipline and its righteous budgets, building a permanent state that resisted the ages. From the Balkans to Anatolia, from Africa to the Mediterranean coast, he made many services from the Ottoman budget, providing serious artifacts to those countries. We are now representatives of a tradition built on such solid foundations, but come again, in the final period of the Ottoman Empire, when financial discipline was removed, what happened after that was a painful experience for all of us. Osman Gazi, the founder of the Ottoman Empire's first Padişa, gives his son, Orhan Gazi, a recommendation to his son, about the financial system the state must endure. You know what he says? O son, guard the house. Try to increase the government's wealth. In view of what is yours, don't waste it out of necessity, don't waste it. He says, "Make sure you don't spend too much money on any business, try to keep the state treasure full, and make ways to increase government revenues." These words of Osman Gazi, founder of the Ottoman Empire, are vital to the importance of the state finances from the first years, to be treated frugally, to show that unnecessary spending should not be done. An important development is taking place in the Ottoman budget understanding along with 1839 Tanzimat Ferri. Do you know why I tell you so much about the Ottomans? Know the importance of Ottomans not to waste -- you're talking too much about Ottomans -- and consider the waste you've made, and I'll tell you a little bit more about how many Ottoman children you are. The 1839 Order of Tanzimat does not include the word "budget," but the idea of budgets is laid out, and it is clearly and precisely stated that every state needs military and military and necessary things to protect its territory. This can be provided with money. Since the money is obtained by tax, it is vital that the tax issue be well organised. The method of handing over tax collection authority to one person, in short, means leaving the country's political and financial affairs to the pleasure of one man and perhaps his crushing grip. The military costs of our great state on land and sea and the other expenses of the sea must be determined and paid according to the laws required. The date of which this is said is 1839, the Order of Tanzimat. The single man's regime, then stressed, brought nothing but persecution, oppression and poverty in every country, every time it was implemented. This has happened in history, and Turkey will not be any different. The poverty will increase, and as the people become poor, the culture of obedience will grow, and that's what power wants, isn't it? Let the people be poor, let the culture of obedience grow; from this, let power run its own ship out of obedience. Even though he said all this, when he was treated differently, we can see that a painting like this has appeared in the Ottoman Empire, and unfortunately, the collapse of the empire has accelerated. In the process after that, you found out that Britain and the Baltaliman Trade Agreement had been signed, high interest in foreign debt, land was being sold to foreigners, railway privileges were given to foreign capital, and, as a result of that, in 1881, the main revenues of the state were left to the foreign administration, and with that decision, the Ottoman economy had become independent. Now, I'd like to ask you, do these historical facts remind you of anything? Ring any bells today? I mean, it's like history is repeating itself. That's how the Ottomans acted, and at the end of the 19th century, their economy, unfortunately, went bankrupt, down to the Galata bankers. You know what the real reason was? There's the same pain in production -- then there's the same pain -- the neglect of the peasant -- that peasant we're not looking at now, and then the recent neglect of wars -- the loss of the wars, the corruption of tax justice and order, the failure of the changing world, following behind. The Industrial Revolution missed it, kidnapped it, sunk in debt-faiz-banker, capitulations, bribes, extortion, and eventually the imperialist economy collapsed. Yes, the role of imperialism and imperialism's greedy capitalist companies in Ottoman economic bankruptcy was enormous. The Ottomans, this imperialist and capitalist pressure, unfortunately, collapsed, unable to resist. The poet Mehmet Akif says in Safahatta: "The history is described as. Would it have been repeated if the AK PARTI government had learned from the provisions of Tanzimat Ferman, Mehmet Akif. That is why Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, in 1923, says we are welcome to foreign capital on the condition that we respect our independence and abide by our laws. See, he specifically emphasizes that if we respect our independence and abide by our laws, we are open to foreign capital. As Ataturk founded the republic, he put a great deal of emphasis on economic independence from his Ottoman experience, so he removed the capitalizations, set up customs, paid off Ottoman debts and eliminated Duyun Iumiye, and ended privileged foreign companies. Look, I want to point out something here, and notice my last sentence, that he has terminated privileged foreign companies. In Turkey, we are under the roof of the Parliament, which has been tasked with making laws in the past five years, which will provide concessions to some foreign companies, which we know are foreigners, but we have some doubts about the capital structure. We saw the last example of this situation last week. Didn't we take out the laws that made it easier for privileged companies like Digiturk, Turkcell, Vodafone and TÜRK TELOM to collect from poor, incompatible citizens? So you created the privileged companies that caused the fall of the Ottoman Empire during this period, there are again privileged companies. While foreign companies were in a hurry to make more money in our country, we, as a country, sold factories, ports, strategic investments in the importance of the state. So, I'm asking you guys, did you do this to become a national? Is that what you have to do to be national? Is it possible on one hand to talk about the country's survival? Let me make it clear to you, you're not national. You don't care about the country. You have eaten so far, fed your followers, squandered them, consumed them, managed them. That's why the economy is like this today. And stop being so cunning as to tie the economy to our sacred values, to the flag and to the oppressor. And stop attaching every negativity to external forces. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. President, when we get to the hospital, may the doctor recommend treatment before he diagnoses the disease? So he has to diagnose the disease first. That's not possible. The same goes for the economy. You can't solve this economic problem by pretending there's no economic crisis. You have to admit it exists, otherwise you can't solve it. But according to the Justice and Development Party's ruling and the President, there is no crisis in the country! Mr. Erdogan, there is no crisis. It's all manipulation. It says! These are made-up words, there's no crisis in the country... come on, look at the banks, take the numbers from the Bank Association, the loans can't be paid, friends; loan buyers can't pay the loans; tenants can't pay the rent; the buyers can't collect the bills; citizens are afraid to go to markets, markets, but according to Mr. President: there is no crisis. Well, I wonder, for God's sake, where do you live? I mean, I wonder if we live in the same country from time to time. It's not a crisis, it's all so bright, but when we look back, we're faced with the opposite of what you're saying. Either you don't walk down the same street, or we've been in the ghetto too much for you, you -- they call you high life, or strangers -- live very high society. You're done with us, you're done with people. As consumers reduce demand, as prices go up, the turnovers go down, and companies multiply concordato ads, there's no crisis, there's no harm, there's no way to make fun of people's minds. Thanks to you, everyone from seven to seventy learned what a concordaton used to mean, only a merchant man knew what it meant. Even the housewives who made it that day started talking about the concordato, and you made it that way. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, according to Central Bank data, as of May 2018, the private sector outside the banks is over $200 billion in debt. We don't know what level that number is now. That's the number I said as of May 2018. Continue to hide behind the ordered statistics of TÜİK (TİK). Keep falling for the optimistic remarks of those supporters you sent to the screens, the pink paintings, the beauty of them. Look, in November, only 356 companies declared concordato in November. Not us, but Mr. Ruzar Pekcan, the Trade Minister, explained this in November in his speech with the Parliamentary Plan and Budget Commission. According to the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchange Association, 10,295 firms closed this year. In October alone, 1,235 firms shut down. The fact that there are 356 concertato applications within a month is actually very clear to us where our economy is going. If everything's great, if everything's great, if our economy is great, if there's no crisis, as the President calls it, why are all these people, all these companies applying to this concord road? Dear President, valued MPs, there's an article in the foreign press in August concerning the Turkish economy. I'm not going to give you the name of this newspaper, but I'm talking about the same newspaper that Mr. President is going around in front of this newspaper, and you know how much he praises our economy. I mean, it's not a newspaper you're going to be excluding. I'm going to read a passage from there, and it says in that article that it all started with the mistakes that Turkey, or rather President Erdogan had made. Erdogan believes in a completely flawed theory, as the low interest rate causes low inflation. Erdogan's theory, which gave him the power to choose the president of the Central Bank and made his son-in-law Minister of Finance, is now being tested and the test is not going well. Then these accusations are partly true in the actions of another leader who does not know the economy. I'm not saying that. I got this from an article in a Western-based newspaper, which Mr. President once referred to as a reference to. As a matter of fact, if the economy of Turkey goes on like this much longer, our people will need food. It's not about the job or the party or voting, so I want you to realize that. It's always a story of success in the economy with your government, with its intense media support and power opportunities. You can't force our people to believe this story. There's no way you're gonna pull this off with these facts out in the open. The minimum wage detection commission has gathered, you know, recently held its first meeting to determine its minimum wage in 2019. For the first time this year, a female worker working as a private security guard attended the meeting. The mother of those two children in the Commission, representing millions of minimum wagers, explained the difficulty of living on this Commission. You know what he said? I started burning natural gas ten or five days ago. This is a 15-day bill, 150 lira. I've already paid rent for 850 liras, he's made a thousand liras. Now, I have a loan payment of $650, and I'll pay you that; that's $1,650. I'm paid for the road and the food, but I eat at work, I have to eat at work, I have to eat at work, the money goes there anyway. The fare's already on its way. I'm left with three liras left of $1.603 left to me. Look, I'll tell you again: I'm left with three liras per month for minimum wage of $1.603. That's where you bring our people. So let's leave the budget and so on; the cure, the cure, the thing they're waiting for is $3. It may seem strange to you, what's $3? So there's a $3 issue in a country with a president on a $500 million plane? But in Turkey, 43 per cent is this important money in a country where there are minimum wage workers. Although the Constitution has been organised, millions of workers are sadly abandoned to poverty along with their family, for a fee to ensure the level of human dignity. I want to show you a painting now. This chart shows the total number of employees working in European Union countries and Turkey at minimum wage. In this case, the latest data is dated 2014. That orange color at the top of the table, that orange color, we're the ones that don't give the lead to anyone. Look, it's serious, so we're way ahead. 43% of the people working in Turkey's 1st place, 43 percent of the people working in Turkey, are working at minimum wage. Who's in the 2nd place? Slovenia. The difference is huge, Slovenia is 19 percent. Look at the difference between the first and the second, and even that shows how desperate our situation is. In Spain, it is 0.4 per cent in Belgium. This is the distribution of the lowest, minimum wage in Europe. In a country where almost half the employees work for minimum wage, you can't talk about prosperity, you can't talk about wealth, you don't need to face facts. Do you remember when you were going to the political arena in 2002, you had an account, a tea-smit account? Mr. President used to use it a lot, I remember the tea-symite account; he'll drink this much tea, he'll eat this much bagels, this family will have four people, etc. But you've already left these accounts, you don't have tea-symits in your account pens, you've got dragon fruit smoothie, you've got a plane that has $500 million each. The accounts have changed, but everyone's got the same account, people are still trying to do the tea-spot count, and you quit, but I'm afraid people still haven't been able to leave that account. At this point, I would like to give you an example of the understanding of the state of the 14th century's thinker, statesman and historian Ibn Haldun. During the time of Israel, the state begins to move towards an end. And the king and his people shall destroy that which the ancients had laid before them, and the work shall be scattered unto those who are not able; and the army shall be broken; and they shall not be able to afford it, because their love of pleasure hath increased. So it is as though he were speaking of this day; and what great man Haldun saw this day seven hundred years ago. The collapse of the state begins in this period, he says, Haldun the Ibn; who understands, of course. He took the country's foreign debt and took off. In 2002, when the EC PARTY took power, public foreign debt was listed as $64.5 billion, the Central Bank external debt of $22 billion, the private sector external debt of 43 billion. With this data, the total gross foreign debt was announced in 2002 as $129.6 billion. Turkey has been heavily in debt after 16 years. According to data published by the Treasury and Finance Ministry, as of June 30, 2018, public foreign debt is 306 billion Turkish liras. It is observed that net foreign debt stock has reached $300 billion. Turkey has almost broken the Turkish Republic record with a gross foreign debt stockpile of 457 billion dollars. Friends, do you know there's such a thing as a debtor taking orders? The borrower takes orders. So we're owed this; debt is the whip of debt. Don't hide behind the saying, it's a time when the imperialists in Turkey are close to bringing Turkey to its knees. And it's because of this debt. We can't even develop independent foreign policy because of debt anymore. As we define our foreign policy, we turn our ears to America, to see what America will say; we observe the state of the states that belong to the IMF; we evaluate our foreign policies accordingly. The independence of countries with high external debt is always at stake. At the same time, if there are those of you who think that these countries will create policies that are independent in foreign policy, that represent the interests of their own country, they are in their imagination. The economic policy of the EC PARTY governments has always been based on lending our citizens money. You ruled Turkey for 16 years with such a sense of power. When we give warnings about economic progress, the government considers it to be opposition, and it is assumed. Yeah, well, we're telling you the truth. Give up this morbid narcissistic self-esteem image as soon as possible. I mean, he's the six empty narcissistic self-esteems that everyone understands, but you think you don't. When you look at the growth figures in what you call a growing country, there seems to be a growth caused by consumption, so when the country was cut off because there was no growth in exporting, exporting, production-based growth, the country was quickly reduced. That's the situation we're in right now. We've really grown up, it's true, but we've grown up to consume; we didn't grow up to produce, to create an export that creates added value. When the money from the outside stopped feeding my consumption, we quickly became poor. The common belief of all independent economists is that a serious poverty awaits the country in the coming process. Today everyone's in debt because of you. In 2002, when you took over power, the household owed $6.6 billion. How much is it now? Mr. Kilicdaroglu has just stated, 520 billion liras. People who owe 80 times more.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0060par0040	How dare you!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0061par0041	They've sunk people's stove. Go ahead, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0062par0043	I'll tell you what happens next, if you'll just wait. Take your time, you'll get your turn, you'll get yours. Everyone gets their share, you get yours.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0063par0045	Oh, my God.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0062par0046	The $419 billion of this debt comes from consumer loans and 101 billion from credit cards. Companies' debt rose from $88 billion to $2 trillion of $513 billion. Do not think that these loans have gone to investments or other companies have invested in debt, adding interest to interest by adding it to the day and adding interest to the day. You punish the manufacturers, you treat the manufacturers like stepchildren. You've tried not to produce the growth of the country, but to consume it for 16 years. In 16 years, you can't tell me one serious factory that's been built. A secret hand instructed you not to produce in this country, and I began to believe it. Because of these wrong economic practices in Turkey, both citizens and small- and medium-sized industrialists, KOBI (S) are all swimming in debt. As of today, consumer loans and credit card debt, which are under legal surveillance, amounted to over $29 billion. 333,000 COBIs also went after him legally because he couldn't pay his $36 billion debt on time. Small and medium-sized businesses owed banks $127 billion,200 million in debt during the first ten months of this year, making 640 billion $100 million. I'm just saying, look at the amount of debt you've been bragging about in your 16 years. Can the AK PARTY government explain the cause of this high increase? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to compare with Turkey, which has 81 million people in our country to demonstrate the value of the situation in terms of the number of people working and the number of people who have 83 million people close to us, the number of people working in Germany and the number of unemployed, if you'll excuse me. The number of people employed in our country is 29 million, and the number of people employed in Germany is 45.1 million. Look, our population is almost the same, we have 29 million people employed, 45 million in Germany. We have 14.8 million people working in the private sector, 32 million people working in the private sector in Germany. We have 3 million public employees, 4.7 million public employees in Germany. We have 2.8 million citizens who work freely in our country of about 81 million people, and that number is 4.3 million in Germany. 12.4 million people receive pensions in our country, 19.8 million people receive pensions in Germany. 3.6 million of us are unemployed, while 85 million people are unemployed in Germany 2.2 million, and a significant number of these unemployed immigrants are in the country. As you can tell by the numbers, you haven't been able to get through a barley in 16 years in the fight against unemployment. In the EC PARTY period, unemployment has never been reduced, but it has become chronic. Don't look at the deceptive figures published by that TÜİK (TİKTİK), which you send to the right number in the next day, just like that; lies, lies, statisticians continue to stop. In terms of unemployment, Turkey has been living the worst ten years since 1960. Since 1960, Turkey's economic growth average has been 4.5 per cent; the growth average of the last decade by universities and related environments has been estimated to be 3.9 per cent, and I regret to say that the last 60 years of economic growth will be the worst ten years in terms of economic growth. An important issue for our country's economic and social planning is the issue of Syrian refugees in our country. Yeah, I know you guys are confused about this, but you don't know what you're doing. It's not clear how much money you've spent on the Syrians. So I looked at a couple of different speeches from the President, and somewhere around the world, $25 billion says $35 billion, and then the next thing you know, it says $32 billion, so there's no control. The billions of dollars in between are pronounced so easily as if they were never to be paid. It's called 35 billion, it's called 25 billion, it's called $32 billion; nobody knows who spends how much money except Mr. President. Mr. President knows for sure, but Congress doesn't, and you don't, and we don't. Do you know how many Syrian refugees there are in our country, how much money we've spent, how much it's burdened our budget? No. I mean, there's a number going around, but there's no clear information. As our president-in-chief, Mr. Coral Akşener, has repeatedly stated, building a Syria that Syrian refugees can return to must be one of our most important foreign policy priorities. This is also an important issue for Turkey's well-being. Otherwise, I suggest you consider the social problems that the Syrian issue will bring with it both the demographic structure and the economic balance of Turkey. Even if we believe you're doing the right budget here, we don't believe in your power and your staff to run it, and we don't believe in the floor. It is clear that the budget offer of 2019 does not match the current economic situation. The budget of 2019 has no purpose, and if it has a purpose, it has no mathematics. You can also call this budget the expense and the waste budget, and it's hard to call it another name. There's a raise in the 2019 budget, interest, tax, but no production, no necessary investments. Public investments have been cut down, debt interest rates increased, fees, penalties increased by more than 20 per cent. Small-income, never thought of, young entrepreneurs forgotten. For the officer, for the worker, there is no real healing. If the facts of the society and economic system that we live in and the budget text that we have don't fit into the same plane, we can't argue that the budget we're going to apply has a philosophy, friends. The budget's inflation target, growth goal, revenue targets, is far from the mathematical reality behind the funds assigned to institutions. There are major obstacles to the growth of Turkey's economy, which has been heavily burdened with foreign financing, which has only been able to grow by opening up the business and therefore has been dependent on foreign financing as a result of the wrong policies imposed by the EC PARTI government over the years. Turkey cannot create added value in exports. We're saying that we have $170 billion exports, and while we have allegations that this $170 billion export value is less than $10 billion, we don't have a scientific study or any ministry to prove otherwise. Thus, it is evident that exports, which are already 157 billion dollars, are expected to increase to 170 billion dollars by the end of the year, lack the ability to produce added value. The structural blockage that our country's economy is facing now is ignored by authorities. But the solution to the problems we face is the right economic planning, production-based growth, the deployment of well-being executives, the end of wasteful public spending, and perhaps more importantly, the establishment of law and justice in our country. If you expect to solve this economic problem in Turkey with only mathematical values, you will not be able to travel far. If you don't restore the law and justice you've destroyed in the country, growth in the economy will be a dream, economic recovery will be a dream, export will be a dream, foreign investor will be a dream, foreign investor will be a dream, the exchange will fall, the Central Bank's reserves will be a dream. First priority: you will establish law and justice again in the country, then let's look at maths again. TUSIAD has recently made a statement, a warning statement, which has caught our attention. TÜSİAD President Bilecik says we need to re-swim the ship in the economy. We don't have time to wait for the tide to rise again. We need to find a way to travel in shallow waters. (The solution also gives prescriptions, Mr. Bilicik: you can't strengthen economy with economic reforms alone. It should be a transparent, compromiser, fair, democratic society. The essential requirement of the powerful Turkey is to build a democratic system based on freedom and the rule of law. Mr. Bilcik, the head of TÜSİAD says: Even though we see that TÜSİAD has a great share of rights in these views, we can't help but say, "Where have you been so far, gentlemen?" I'm afraid we can't help but say, "Where have you been, gentlemen?" For 16 years, some environments have been silent, and for 16 years, not talking about what they should have been talking about has been a serious contribution to the country's situation. I'm careful, I'm looking at newspaper headlines, and you're trying to solve the economy with onions. So we're waiting for you to solve the economy with onions, so if you solve the onion, we're just waiting for the peeler to come along. I remember in 2002 you were on your way to enter the European Union. He was a good target, the European Union was a really good target, but the last time I saw him, you were counting in the onion tank. You've forgotten the European Union, you've gone into the onion depository. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] It was at the end of the 1970s -- I remember, when I was in college -- newspapers were carrying headlines of raids on grocery stores that stocked oil, oil stock. No foreign currency, no oil seed production, no oil imports, no foreign currency, limited oil production and oil tails. And to destroy those oil tails, the cops were raiding grocery stores like they do now -- not so much at the time, no mall -- oil supply. It's 2018, 50 years ago, half a century, and this time, the raids on the onion warehouses are on the front page. The police came out of the oil storage warehouses 50 years ago and dived into the onion storage warehouses. That's what Turkey's been coming to for 50 years, we've been promoted from oil to onions. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, to tell you that we've gone too far, we've gone too far. Turkey's economy faces an economic crisis that has the potential to be sentenced to years of low growth. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, there was an economic crisis stemming from private sector debt; unlike the 2002 crisis, there was a bank crisis in 2002. Now there's no banking crisis, the bankers are making a profit explosion, it's interesting. Because they suffocated the citizen with interest loads... the banks are in good condition... but the citizens are miserable, the producer is devastated, the private sector is crushed under debt. Most of these foreign-owned private sector loans are no longer able to be translated at the appropriate cost. This crisis is also a management crisis. In order to overcome the crisis and build the future -- as I've just reminded you -- without leaving justice, this is very important, without leaving justice, universal law, modern education, added value production, transparent state structure, ideas and freedom of conscience, investment in science and art, there must be no intelligent policies in and out that will provide peace, we have no choice. Industrialist expects immediate action and solutions for stability in the economy, improved investment climate, further incentive for production. Economic management is simply seeking to consolidate the process politically, not looking for any solution. Politically, how can we consolidate it, throw it into the March. This power also killed the industry's competitiveness. One by one, these inverted trips in the industry have shut down the factories, they've turned off their switches. Look, I'm the MP from Alexandria, and I'm sorry to say that the industrialists in the Alexandria area, which was called the industrial city until yesterday, are really crying blood right now. Factories have either reduced production or abandoned production. Open the local newspapers, and every day, we're on the news of the extraction of workers in a factory. He's going to lose the title of the Bigeli Industrial City soon. So, is that so, but are the others different? Is Kayseri different? Is Clumsy different? Is the heromarash different? Is Gaziantep different? Denizli, is it different? No, they're all the same, all the industrialists are turning off one switch at a time. In our country, where the tax burden on employment is at its highest, the industrialists are trying to survive with their employees, despite you, trying to survive. I repeat, in spite of you. The industrial base has melted in Turkey. Turkey is getting smaller and smaller as countries that can't hold water in Turkey's hands are growing more and more. In the Justice and Development Party's economic plan, it's about raising the economy of consumption, enriching supporters, financing politics, and just winning elections, that's all there is to it. Turkey now has to make a choice in its industrial planning. Either he has to plan a high-tech industry -- which will take him a long time to decide and wait for it to happen -- right now, it doesn't seem very possible -- or he has to develop the country's industry based on agriculture and agriculture, Turkey. High-young manpower and the abundance of unusable farmland may move Turkey to a very important point in the world, with its emphasis on agriculture-based industry. Turkey has such a chance if you can use it. The world is full of examples. Brazil and Ukraine opted for agriculture, and now they are among the largest agricultural producers and exporters of agricultural products in the world. I want to give you a number: 850,000 tonnes of sunflower seeds produced in Turkey in 2007, 1,1 million tons in Ukraine. Last year in Turkey, sunflower production was 1.3 million tonnes, 16 million tonnes in Ukraine. Look at where they're coming from, look at where we're coming from. We can't possibly say that we're less fortunate than they are compared to the majority of agricultural land, the working labor force, but we have an unplanned economy, a problem here, a truly unplanned economy. The most feasible way to employ unemployed in Turkey is to ensure that these people live in areas of agriculture and work in agriculture. This will provide employment at one hand, while on the other, it will prevent migration to major social cities with a major social injury. While this is being done, on the other hand, agriculture based on agriculture in the same areas should be encouraged to become a more profitable sector. But as far as we're concerned in agriculture, we've pretty much made progress, dip. We import lentils, chickpeas, beans, all agricultural products you can think of. Our farming and animalism are pathetic. Our farmers' demands have reached the site, and they're having trouble reaching only the AK PARTY and its partners. I'd like to give you an example: Nut producers with about $3 billion in exports are victims of the wrong policies of power. Turkey is covering 70 per cent of the world's nut production, while our nut producers are experiencing the most depressing days in the history of the republic. In Europe, the price of 30 lira and the amount of nuts that float over is between 11 and 14 in Turkey, so we continue to crush our own grower ourselves. There's a power that's happy that they're poor, interesting. Before the election -- before the election -- there was a new election, not even six months -- you made promises that you'd be with the manufacturer, that you'd put the manufacturer in expectation, that you'd given up hope, but you couldn't stand up for the promise you made to the General Assembly, that you'd rejected the suggestions about the nuts, and you wouldn't stand up for it, and you lied to the nation. Once it was too late, at a price less than expected, the victims of the nut maker again were ignored. Have you seen anything in the 2019 budget for nuts, beets, apples, potatoes, figs, corn, wheat producers? I've never met them, they're supposed to be destroyed, ignored. There is nothing in this budget for Mehmet Agha in the village, nor for Mama Fadime, nor for the farmer Ishmael. We have another suggestion for you other than agriculture: the right incentives... not to mention the incentives given to the allies, serious, right incentives for investment and 4.0 in industry must be developed. The TEKNOKENTs must be converted into higher jobs, thus preventing this brain migration. We're facing serious brain migration, and every day we wake up with reports that an important academic, an important scientist, has settled abroad; that's a big loss for the country; there are ways to reverse it, there are ways to do it, there are ways to do it, there are ways to do it, there are forces that insist on not doing it. I didn't see anything in this budget of the engineer, Ahmet. He was a teacher. I didn't see anything about the software guy, Alp. If anyone saw anything, let him come. So, how are we going to raise the generations that will succeed in this development? There's only one way, with education, only education. Well, if you're asking what our situation is in this education that I'm having trouble telling you is now national, in 2007, the Ministry of Education reduced its funding to $1,317 per student in 2018, which is $2,121 to $1,317 per student income in ten years. It's a much harder fall in colleges. In 2007, $4,245 per student grant was transferred, which was reduced to $1,060 in 2017, which is a quarter of the allowance you paid for universities. The numbers show that you don't give the importance of concrete to our young people who built the future of the country. There's no money for those who build concrete, no money for young people who build the future of the country. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are a law authorizing budgets, government spending, collecting revenues. This authority is defined as the budgetary right of the militia, and is used by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In 2019, what needs of society will be met and what resources will be funded by them, and we, as lawmakers, wonder. AS A GOOD PARTY, we strive to best meet the use of our nation's budget rights, and we show maximum sensitivity. We used our nation's authority freely in the Plan and Budget Commission. When we come to the assembly, we don't come under oath for yes or no; if we have what we find appropriate, if we see what we see in the interests of the people, we call them yes, and we say no to those we don't; we have no such agendas. All the suggestions we bring to improve the economy, you say no, and of course you have abstainors. I'm sorry to inform you that you're a failure to govern the economy, returning to the Turkish Republic's budget as an interest payment. You have a sense of politics that fills your ship's sails with interest, and now you're after interest counters, let alone loans to students you're giving scholarships to. So the person you don't give interest to in the country, the institution, the institution, the institution, is gone; you're going after those students, and I'm going to drop them in interest. You've decided that you're going to drop them in interest. You're going to call them freeloaders. There are many of you who study scholarships, and I am one of them, and we always remember the people who taught us scholarships with good. God rest his soul, one of my scholarships was Aydın Bolak. His place is in heaven. One was in Sabri Ulir. His place is in heaven. The scholarship is very important in a student's life, and I remember that even after 40 years. Do you know how you'll be remembered in 40 years? You'll be remembered as a government that calls students who want scholarships a freeloader. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Look, what the numbers say about interest: the interest fee for 2018 is $117 billion for 2019 of the administration, which is waiting to close with a loan payment of 72 billion. But there's a 45 billion lira difference, and the money we're paying for our debt has increased by 50 percent. Can you expect these companies to invest in this country where 500 major companies spend two-thirds of their earnings on interest? In what country in the world is there a manufacturer that invests two thirds of the money they spend in interest, a manufacturer factory? That's not possible. I still find it hard to understand how these people survive. Turkey, again, was dragged into interest, inflation and foreign currency helix, as in the 90s. We're not surprised at the fact that you're basing the budget deficit on tax increases and various increases due to a high increase in interest payments, as well as as expected. With increases in taxes and passports, driver's licenses, you aim to increase revenues by 23.7 per cent on average, and in the budget of 2019, you predict a 20 per cent increase in budget revenues from the VAT. We say it all the time, and we'll stress it again: the tax is already on the ground. It's not about spreading the tax to the bottom, it's about spreading the income to the bottom, it's about spreading the tax to the ceiling. It's not about the spender, it's about collecting taxes from the winner. Indirect tax from the spender, you collect taxes from the man's smoking, the tea he drinks, the salt he uses. Imagine a country collecting 72 per cent of its taxes as an indirect tax. So it's not about collecting taxes from the consumer, it's about collecting taxes from the winner. It's the right tax system. I'll tell you something else: it's not who you're on, it's whose side you're on. We know who you're with, we want to know whose side you're on, that's the whole point. I advise you, take your hands off people's pockets. People are really not doing well. In the last nine months, you've raised prices for energy consumption, 50% for industry and trades, 40% for housing. You're only giving the burden of increasing budget revenues to a fixed-income citizen, so leave it. In economic management, unfortunately, you're getting away from merit and driver's license every day. You're trying to run the economy by unplanned, unpredictive, unscientific methods as a result of domestic deployment. One of the most concrete examples of this is that, at the end of September, you took $11 billion out of the unemployment fund, and you lent it to public banks like capital. Where's the unemployment fund? The men who put money on unemployment money found out that the bank was transferred without their knowledge, away from their use. By evacuating the unemployment fund, you tried to cover up the damage caused by the courtship surge. None of your solutions are structural, they're all immediate. You think you can manage saving the day, but we, the good PARTI, want to plan the next ten years, 50 years, a hundred years of the Republic of Turkey, that's why we're calling you. We are mortals, but I hope the Republic of Turkey will live on forever. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, it is not acceptable for governments to have budgets that represent economic programmes to be carried out by large deviations. Each budget leads to a major deviation. The EC PARTY governments clearly lack the ability to plan, especially in the Ministry of Transport budgets. The Transport Ministry budget, envisioned for $24 billion in 2017, has gone astray by 32 per cent, Mr. Elvan. In 2018, 31 billion -- even though the amount of funding in 2017 -- has been cut, so far 85 per cent of the funding has been spent, and without any deviation in the spending trend, the budget of 2018 will be finished at $39 billion, which means the ministry budget will again deviate by 25 per cent this year. 2019-2020 and 2021 budgets for transport and infrastructure have ended, I'm afraid it's time to call it a day. The 2017 reports prepared by the Court of Justice... I would like to bring your attention to this: that institution that published this report, which you removed the vice president of the Court, the 2017 reports by that Court of Justice, are as follows: corruption records that will be written down in history. These are not reports, these are corruption records to make a note of history. A total of $659m is reported in the Court's audit report in 2017, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications reportedly paid $2232m for nearly a cost-effective job. Look, I repeat: $659 million is being paid for a $223 million job that costs money. It is not possible to be said that the work done and the powers used in the last sentence of page 56 of this report are in the best interest of the public. The statements clearly show that you have paid the contractor $426m more than the cost of the project by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications. I wonder if this money went to this firm, where it went. I wonder if this firm could eat this money by itself, and I don't know if you could. (APPLAUSE) So with the Ministry's discretionary authority, the contractor was paid almost twice as much as the cost. I mean, can any of you answer that?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0064par0082	You got it, you got it, you got it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0062par0083	They pay twice as much. Do you know what the explanation is? The explanation is, people don't wake up, people don't know. These people know it all, you'll see. Remember, there is a reckoning in this world and in the grave. You're going to be taken into account, and you're not going to leave without a withdrawal. Mr. President, I'd like to remind you of some of the major projects under public-special cooperation: Third airport, Gebze-Izmir Highway, North Marmara Highway, third bridge and city hospitals. As you can see, projects such as these investments actually represent infrastructure investments that should be made by the public. The reason these investments were made by public-special cooperation was because the administration did not have enough public resources. Given the risks Turkey will face next fiscal year, such as the vehicle crossing the bridge, the plane landing at the airport, the burden of these services will increase on the budget, given the number of patients to go to the hospital. Theoretically, public-special cooperation projects cost around $345 billion. Although the entire amount is claimed not to be an additional burden on the budget, the amount missing from the guaranteed amount is yet to be determined. Therefore, it is not clear how much the overall budget is burdened with public-private infrastructure investments in the budget of 2019, and which pen will be followed through the public finances. As an example, we just need to examine Osman Gazi Bridge. The Osman Gazi Bridge, guaranteed to pass 40,000 vehicles daily, provides an average of 25,000 vehicles daily, according to figures provided by the Transport Ministry. In the first nine months of 2018, 7 million 104 thousand vehicles passed through the Osman Gazi Bridge, but the number of guarantees for these nine months was 10,800,000 vehicles. About 3,700,000 vehicles are covered by the treasure, the taxes we pay. How do you explain that? Isn't that a state-of-the-art injury? I swear it's not. If you're saying it's a good deal, enjoy it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0065par0087	Mind your own business!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0062par0088	Now that we have made our way, it is clear what your word means, that you have done these things the way. We've made our way. I understand your words, you've done things your way. Isn't that to transfer the treasure from the Turkish nation's tax dollars to private companies? Is your conscience clear? Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Eurasian Tunnel, Kütahya Victory Airport; projects built on unreachable numbers. The Ottoman State's first Padishah Osman Gazi. His son Orhan Gazi. You either don't know or you don't understand the government's financial structure, or you understand, it doesn't do you any good. In spite of that, you named this bridge, one of the projects that emptied the treasure, the Ottoman Gazi. Every time you speak, you're making the bones of our profession, which you stress with literary sentences. As our president-in-chief, Mr. Coral Akşener, appears, we will review these projects that you have done under the name of public-private cooperation in the PARTI administration, we will turn them back to the public's advantage, we will stand in the way of the public's robbery, we will prevent the evacuation of the treasure. We'll hold the rights of an unfinished orphan until the end of this right.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0066par0092	Yes, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0062par0093	We're going to use the public-private cooperation more heavily in areas that will allow Turkey to jump technologically. Mr. President, even if the High National Assembly of Turkey disagrees with the President in any way and does not approve budgetary bills, the President is now strong enough to run the system. In other words, today's Constitution has fallen even further back than its first form of legal foundation. As stated in the well-being party programme, preparations must and must be made for the immediate transition to the reinforced parliamentary system. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Mr. President, in 2003-2017, the Turkish economy had to give three times the current amount of this period in order to grow only 0.8 more year-on-year than the 1950-2002 period. So we've given three times as much per year because we're just going to increase our annual growth by 0.8. When the national income grew to $1, the economy owed $2. 75 billion dollars in debt, 150 billion dollars in debt. With all these figures, considering the recession, which is likely to enter the Turkish economy in the coming period, it is clear that the 2019 Budget Law Proposal has insisted on long-standing wrong policies, and Turkey will not be able to solve its structural problems. AS A GOOD PARTY, we've moved our nation's problems to the agenda of the House, and we'll continue to carry on. The Treasury and Finance Minister, Mr. Berat Colonelrak, also linked the terrorist organisation to ا and linked it to external forces, as an element of bad economic progress. So we decided to look into the economics and political foot, and you said no. Didn't we? No, you said. We carried the problems of the country. We decided to solve the problems of pensioners together, and you told him no. We decided to solve our officer's 3600 additional indicators, and you told him no. We thought we'd find a cure for the nut maker's problem, and you got up, and you told him no. We wanted to pay the young unemployed until they got a job, so don't let them look at the father's hand, they're young men, they're proud men, and you told him no. Yeah, he's a minimum wager, he can't afford his house, he can't buy bread, we can't take taxes from him, you told him no. You have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so, and you have done so. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0067par0101	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Dear MPs, it is on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group that Mr. Lütfi Elvan is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0068par0105	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers salute your delegation, and I wish that the work of the Central Management Budget Law of 2019 be good for our country and our nation. I'd like to thank our Plan and Budget Commission, all of our ministers and congressman friends and bureaucrats who have worked in the budget work. And I wish that the budgetary talks in our General Assembly, which have been achieved by national will, would also be a blessing for our country. Mr. President, we, the esteemed lawmakers, have been in charge of ruling for 16 years as the EC PARTY. In 16 years, we've prepared 16 budgets, and we've successfully applied them all. We are now negotiating the 17th budget. In 16 years, we have been victorious through the support and high gratitude of our people in every election we have entered as AK PARTY. This is a great honor, a great privilege; it is also a great responsibility. We have spared no sacrifice to fulfill the obligation given to us by our great nation. These 16 years with the EC PARTI authorities have been a period of growing, strengthening, sustainable development and having more say on the global scale. With EC PARTY governments, Turkey has achieved its true potential. He signed numerous projects in all areas from transport to health, agriculture to trade, industry to RD. We have again implemented many structural reforms in both economic and social areas. Thus, Turkey became an important actor in its region and in the global arena. Of course, it is important to remember that despite what, such accomplishments have been achieved? Despite the global financial crisis, these achievements have been achieved despite the economic and political custody focus, despite the instability in our region, internal and external provocations, the 17-25 December judicial coup attempt, the July 15th treacherous coup attempt and recent attacks on the court. Turkey is on its way. We never compromised our future and stability. During that time, our nation was united in the desire to reach a common goal from its workers to its tradesman, its officer to its merchant, its farmer to its business man, its housewife to its pension. This goal is to strengthen our unity and unity, our national security. This goal is to eradicate terror. It is the goal of strong economic and sustainable development. The recent attacks on our country are also aimed at destroying our unity, unity, unity, and integrity. During these attacks, there were people who rubbed their hands, who complained about Turkey in a way that had never been seen, but despite these intense baseless attacks, sensory operations, our economy proved its integrity once again, the voice of crisis crises has been silenced. Once again, the ones with the foam have gone with the foam. By the grace of God, through the firm standing of our great nation and the determination of our government, we have managed to overcome all kinds of negatives, all kinds of attacks, and we will succeed after that. Mr. President, I'd like to continue my speech by taking a picture of global economic progress. The global economy is going through one of its most complicated periods. In fact, as well as economic uncertainty, wars, regional tensions, natural disasters are increasing, and we are experiencing a period in which they increase economic risks. Economic and political relations, on the one hand, are changing direction very quickly, while on the other hand, the tendency to protect is growing more than ever before. A decision that suddenly affects all financial markets directly. Tough moves in the schools, stock markets and bonds markets are delaying investment decisions. Despite these effects, the lack of co-ordination at the global level makes it difficult for countries to implement stable policies. However, we see that some developed countries in particular tend to normalize from monetary enlargement policies. The interest increases in developed economies, especially in the United States, have resulted in both the value of reserve currencies and the emergence of global capital from developing countries. However, in parallel with very rapid political and economic developments, the direction of global capital has been surging recently. In short, there is a significant increase in factors that pose risk to the global economy, especially in trade wars and in global financing costs. Without a doubt, this causes growth to slow down in developed and developing countries. See, global growth projections for 2018 and 2019 have been revised in the lower direction, but in the coming days it is possible to revisit it again. Similarly, global trade envisions a serious slowdown. That's the general picture in the world economy. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, what is the situation in our country? Despite the global uncertainty climate, Turkey's economy now demonstrates that it is based on solid foundations, as it has many times. As a result of the structural reforms we've implemented, our country has been able to successfully deal with global macroeconomic fluctuations. Despite a surge in financial markets in August, Turkey's economy continues to perform above expectations, depending on the balance policies, measures taken and increased exports set out with the New Economy Programme. Remember, by the end of 2016, a gloomy picture was drawn for Turkey. For 2017, our goal for growth of 4.4 per cent was seen as high, especially by the main opposition. Despite the aftereffects of the July 15 coup attempt and increasing political and economic pressures towards our country, our economy grew to a record level of 7.4 per cent in 2017. In the past 15 years, Turkey's economy has grown by 5.7 per cent year-on-year, despite an unprecedented global crisis. Our growth continues in 2018. Like yesterday, there are people out there and inside who are trying to draw a similar pessimistic picture, but with the measures we've taken, we continue to ignore all negative expectations. In the first half of the year, 6.2% of our growing economy grew by 1.6 percent in the third quarter of 2018, as opposed to negative expectations at the end of the summer. Turkey will succeed in stabilising the economy with more moderate growth rates, without facing economic downsizing as a result of a stable and stable stance of our government, thanks to the support of our beloved nation and its belief in us. As a matter of fact, our economy has entered a process of rapid recovery and normalisation, and the markets have strengthened the signal of trust.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0069par0115	Mr. President, would you alert the administration to treat life with a little respect?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0068par0116	Consider a number of indicators: One of the key pioneer indicators, the Purchasing Directors Index moved upwards from 42.7 in October to 44.7 in November. Our central bank reserves rose from 84.7 billion dollars in September to 90.2 billion dollars in November. Our net exchange position is close to the end of 2017. Our risk premium, the CDS, dropped faster than 574, down to 390 in December during the August-age period. The Economy Trust Index, the most important and inclusive indicator of trust in the economy, increased 9.1 per cent in November. When we look at the lower components of the Economic Trust Index, we see that the real-cut trust plays the main role in moving the index up. In November, real-estate confidence increased by 6.3 percent. This increase in the real sector followed with 5.4 per cent of the service sector, with a rise in trust in the retail trade sector with 4.3 per cent. When we looked at the consumer size of the business, we saw a 4 percent increase in November in the consumer trust index. In short, our producer, our business world, our consumers, our citizens rely and believe the firmness of our economy and the determination of our government. Will I take the blind in your hand and bring forth the fire at the start of the spark? Those who wait for it will suffer a great loss, and then they will come again. Once again, a debt of gratitude to our beloved nation, who did not give them this opportunity, and I thank them for never sparing us their support. A decent man, Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his friends have never given in to an attack, and he will no longer submit. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the valued lawmakers also showed Turkey's high growth performance during the EC PARTY administrations in the area of creating new jobs. According to OECD data -- I'd like you to watch them very carefully -- obviously from 2007-2017, Turkey increased its employment by 35.5 per cent to the 1st place among the OECD countries. Again, according to these data, we've done the highest increase in participation in the labor force. 3.1 points in the European Union have increased by 1.5 points in the OECD countries and by 8.2 points in our country (Applause from EC PARTY) and OECD countries. Let's look at young employment at the same time. What's the picture of young employment? What is Europe, what is Turkey? When we look at this, we see that in the same period, in 2007-2017, young jobs in the European Union have decreased by 4.5 million people. What is the picture in Turkey?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0070par0120	There are trainees.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0068par0121	We see we're providing an additional 1 million jobs in young employment. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We also rank first among the OECD countries in this area.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0070par0122	Interns, interns.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0071par0123	You wrote interns, interns.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0068par0124	Let's look at female employment. Again, we see that 3 million, 375 thousand women have been given additional employment during this period. Women's participation in the labour force has risen from 23 per cent to 34 per cent. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We're number one in the OECD rankings again. Mr. President, before I continue my assessment of the economy, I would like to respond to criticisms expressed here in particular to the budget, in the thought that perhaps I would have no time, if you'd allow me. The first, especially at minimum wage and employee, in the official section, said that the real rate of the real sector is not enough to support a lower inflation rate. Now let's look at the numbers. Remember, no number was given to us. I wonder if in the last 16 years our officer, our worker, has really been crushed under inflation. No number was given on this subject. Look, I'm going to share these numbers with you. The minimum wage in 2002 is 184.3 liras.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0072par0128	Mr. Secretary gave me those numbers.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0068par0129	A minimum wage of $1,603 in 2018. Nominal increase...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0072par0130	How much was the dollar then?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0068par0131	I'll tell you according to him, don't worry. Relax, relax.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0073par0132	Did you get your answer?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0072par0133	The dollar was $1.50.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0074par0134	Please warn Mr. Tanal. We can't hear.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0075par0135	Nominal increase is 770 percent. So, if we remove inflation, how much is the real increase? There's been a 108 percent increase in reality. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's look at the minimum officer's salary. $392 in 2002. So, what's today? $3.133. So, what's the real increase? What's the real increase after de-inflation? Ninety-nine percent, dear friends. We've never had any cuts, or workers, or civil servants crushed by inflation in any way. If you can't give us a single number, go ahead and tell us.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0076par0139	Look under a quarter.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0077par0140	Drop the minimum fee to 1,200.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0078par0141	What was a quarter of the gold in 2002?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0142	Now, about the dorms. It was said that we didn't build dorms, we didn't serve young people. I would advise you, please, go to one of the dorms we've built, where we've built, and see what conditions these students live.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0080par0143	Insufficient, inadequate.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0144	There are no more students or dorms living in extreme difficulty, with 20 or 25 people sleeping in bunk beds, no hot water. We do their dorms by four and five-star hotel standards, students stay by two, they have hot water, they have TVs, they have work tables, they get whatever they need. And let's look at the numbers. The total number of beds in the dorms was 193,000 in 2002. So, what's the number of beds today? 781 thousand.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0080par0146	The problem continues.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0147	Did you see the increase? Please, look at these numbers. Please, you can't cheat on our citizens without looking at these numbers.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0081par0148	Say it according to the number of college students. Children can't find dorms, dorms!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0149	Our citizens know exactly what's being done. That's the main reason our citizens haven't supported you so far. Talk to the numbers. You can never cheat on our citizen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, let's look at his bed capacity.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0082par0152	How many students are there?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0083par0153	How many students, number of students? Compare 2002 to 2018.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0154	We'll get to that, sir. We'll get to that. Bed capacity went up to 669K when it was 188,000, as a qualified bed; that's the difference. So, what's the status on scholarships and loans? Can't get scholarships or loans. Was it called here? Well, what is it? Let's look at these numbers. Look, dear friends, in 2002, a student was receiving a 45-dollar scholarship or loan, so what's it come up to today? It's up to 500 liras.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0084par0159	So, how many people have you performed?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0085par0160	Mr. President, would you please warn Tanal?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0161	Well, let's answer Mr. Mahmut's question. What's the increase? Is there an increase in reality? There is a 137 per cent increase in reality. So, what's the deal with grad students? They were getting 90 lira.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0086par0163	How many students have you performed?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0087par0164	They all left Turkey abroad.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0165	So, how much do they charge today? They're taking a thousand liras, dear friends, a thousand liras. So, what's going on with your PhD students?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0088par0167	Do they get along? They don't get along.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0168	They were getting 135 liras, and today it went up to 1,500 liras. The difference is these dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0089par0170	How many people have you performed?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0171	Now, to the question asked, how many people have been given scholarships or loans?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0089par0172	Of course, how many students are there for execution?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0090par0173	Mr. President, would you please warn Tanal?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0174	Now, dear friends, see, in 2003, only 452,000 people were given scholarships or loans, and today 1,600,000 people are given scholarships or loans. That's the difference again. Another striking example of feeding aid, as I immediately thought of it. The monthly feeding aid was only $11 for the students staying in the dorm, so I'll remind you today it's $375.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0091par0177	That's a shame. Feeding aid means poverty, poverty.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0092par0178	Mr. President, there's no such procedure.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0179	Now, about the budget...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0091par0180	It's a shame. Feeding aid means poverty.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0181	Let's get down to budgets. Again, the budget has been used to describe the budget with extreme dissolution and inefficiency.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0093par0182	Isn't he from Kilicdaroglu?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0183	The budget is in front of every one of our MPs. Our budget is clear and transparent, so he can see very clearly what kind of money is put in the pen that wants it. I'd like to ask, did he ever look at its contents? I don't think so, because I don't think those expressions would have been used if he'd looked at the content. We have no savings in any of our budgets that directly affect education, health care, social services and the welfare of our citizens, the peace of our citizens, and I want to express that from here. This budget is the budget of our people, our nation's budget, my dear brothers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, there's been a lot of talk about debt, so I have to take this. About the debt...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0094par0186	The number of execution files has been discussed, the number of execution files.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0187	Now, dear friends, it's very interesting, if you'll notice, that either the debt has not been used or the number used doesn't represent a particular rate, just the economic size of that year in 2002, and the attitude of today's economic size seems to be the same. Now, in economics, comparison is important, but you can't compare apples with pears, you compare apples with apples; that's the difference. Here's what I'm going to say: there's been talk of debt, public debt, $64 billion. Now, we had $236 billion in revenues at that time, and today our national income is over $850 billion.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0095par0189	Four stories up, minimum wage up?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0190	You're not going to live in 2002, you're going to live today, you're going to act in today's numbers.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0095par0192	Is the minimum wage that high?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0193	Now, you see, in 2002, our debt rate was 72 per cent, so 72 per cent of the total money in my vault is debt; today, only 29 per cent of the money in my vault is debt. You must understand that, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0096par0195	Who's it going to?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0097par0196	The citizen and the private sector are all in debt.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0197	Look, it's also said, sir, that Turkey's public and private debt is so high that it is no longer affordable.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0098par0198	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0097par0199	Add in the individual debt, add in the credit card debt.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0200	Let's see what it is in the world. Look, I don't include private-section debt, I'm just going to read to you the national rate of public debt in countries. 240 per cent in Japan, 53 per cent in Turkey when you include the debt of the public sector plus the private sector. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Think of the debt of the public plus the debt of the private sector together, 53 percent. This is 240 per cent in Japan, 180 per cent in Greece, 130 per cent in Italy, 125 per cent in Portugal, 106 per cent in the United States. That's not included in the private sector debt, I'll tell you that, but when I say Turkey, I say it in public plus private. Therefore, Turkey is not in any difficulty as far as borrowing is concerned, and I want to express that in particular. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When we look at our short-term debts, I mean the year-long process -- our short-term debt is now lower than our debt in 2013. When we look at private sector debt, yes, there is over $200 billion in debt, but it's no different than last year's debt, and I want to stress that in particular. The budget... it's said to be the interest budget again. Guys, the numbers are right here, but they didn't mean anything. Look, I'll share it with you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0099par0204	117 billion.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0205	Where did 86 percent of our tax revenues go? He was on his way to interest expenses.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0099par0206	It's interest costs, 117 billion.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0207	So, what percentage of our tax revenues go to interest spending now? Ten and six percent go. That's the difference. Today, only 10 percent of our tax revenues go to interest spending.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0099par0208	You've got over the budget of 14 ministries.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0209	Now, about the do-and-do thing. I'd like to talk to you about that, too. Dear friends, let's see this: Turkey is one of the most successful countries in the world in the trade-in. Wherever we go, wherever we go to a country, they tell us, please, tell us about this do-and-work model of yours. Look, we've done construction-enforcement projects for dozens of billion-dollar projects.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0100par0210	By borrowing the citizen.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0101par0211	Tell me the roads, tell me the roads.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0212	Of course you're uncomfortable with them because we're increasing the comfort of our citizens, so I think you should be uncomfortable.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0101par0213	Tell them about the bridges, Mr. Secretary, and tell them not to do it again, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0214	Now, you're uncomfortable with city hospitals.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0101par0215	Very, very much. Tell the world how you're giving hospitals to patients guaranteed, huge allies like this. Tell me how you gave it to your followers, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0216	What's wrong with city hospitals? Are you uncomfortable with the world's most modern service, please tell me that. What's wrong with him? [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Look, we're doing the third airport, we're doing the do-and-do model, we don't get a penny out of our pockets. He invests 11.5 billion euros in the private sector.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0101par0219	It can be taken out of the pool, Mr. President. Tell me about it. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, how did you get $600 million into the pool?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0220	And we're not satisfied with that, because of this annual investment in airports in the government's vault, my dear brothers and sisters, it's going to be 1 billion euros.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0101par0222	Tell me, Mr. Secretary, how did you collect $600 million from fellow businessmen to the Morning newspaper?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0223	Of course, it's hard for you to understand. Yeah, what can I do, what can I do, what can I do?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0101par0224	Tell us how you raised $600 million from a fellow businessman. Tell me how the money gets in the pool.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0102par0226	Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0079par0227	So let's talk income distribution, income distribution, income distribution.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0102par0228	Mr. Lütfi, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0103par0229	There's nothing you can do about it in the world, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0102par0230	Please... friends, please listen to the preacher. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0231	Let's move on to the revenue distribution.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0103par0232	There's no one out there who's giving you a hard time about it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0102par0233	Please...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0234	Again, what did you mean? The income distribution in Turkey is failing. Did you say? You did. You said that, didn't you? Well, did you say any numbers here?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0105par0235	We've told him the number of files. Come to him.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0106par0236	Mr. President, we can't understand. Can you shut Tanal up?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0237	You didn't. Why didn't you? Because there's no disruption in income distribution, on the contrary, there's a improvement in income distribution.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0107par0238	He burned himself in front of the Citizen Assembly, how to balance income...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0239	Now that I'm sharing numbers with you, it's an OECD data.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0107par0240	Five people burned themselves.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0241	There were two million people whose daily spending was less than $2.15 per year in 2002, which is 3.04 per cent, and in 2017, there were no more citizens than $2.15, dear brothers and sisters. Has the revenue distribution improved or worsened?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0107par0242	Tell me about the YIT people, about the YIT people, about the YIT people.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0243	Another example, I continue: Again, this is an international standard: the number of Ferts, which are less than $4.3 a day, were 20 million in 2002; more or less 30 percent of our population had less than $4.3. Today, it has dropped from 30 per cent to 1.58%. Has the revenue distribution improved or worsened? Here are the numbers. I'm going on, it's not over because income distribution is important. You've touched on it. I'm moving on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0108par0245	Mr. Secretary, do you believe what you say in the income distribution, for God's sake?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0109par0246	What are you going to do about minimum wage?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0247	Now, let me tell you something about revenue distribution: look, there's a scientific coefficient in income distribution, you know what they call it?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0110par0248	The Gini coefficient.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0249	It's called the Gini coefficient, the coefficient used in the distribution of income, the gini coefficient.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0111par0250	But Recep, we're brothers in religion.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0251	If the coefficient is high, the income distribution is broken, and if the coefficient is dropping, the income distribution is improving.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0112par0252	Do you know how much bread costs, how much bread is bread in Ankara? Minister, do you know how much bread costs in Ankara?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0253	Now, the Gini coefficient dropped to 0.43 in 2006, to 0.40 today. So there was a decline in the Gini coefficient. What does that mean? It means there's a improvement in income distribution.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0112par0254	Minister, do you know how much bread costs in Ankara? Minister, the price of bread in Ankara is...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0255	Now, dear friends, another matter is the poorest 20 percent of the money distribution...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0113par0257	Yes, Mr. Orator, wrap it up, please. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Friends, please listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0260	Excuse me. Now, the income of the bottom 20 percent, my dear friends, was 5.8% in 2006, and it went up to 6.3 per cent today.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0114par0262	Let's go and have this conversation.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0115par0263	Tell him about Uncle Recep whose son died in your country, Mr. Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0264	Sir?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0115par0265	You know, from Karaman Ermenek, your hometown.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0266	I'd like to say that the low revenue distribution has increased the share of the national income, from 5.8 to 6.3.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0115par0267	That's not what Uncle Recep says.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0116par0268	Do you know how much bread costs in Ankara?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0104par0269	Another issue has just been expressed, sir, the production of sunflowers has been described as a decline in some other plant productions. I'm just going to share a few numbers, so please talk to the numbers here.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0115par0270	Malatians cut down apricot trees, apricot trees.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0117par0271	Sugar, what about tea?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0115par0272	A million trees have been cut down, thanks to you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0118par0273	See, sunflower production was 850,000 tons in 2002, and sunflower production went up to 2 million tons today, my dear friends, 2 million tons. Egyptian production was 2,100,000 tons in 2002, reaching 5,900,000 tonnes today.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0119par0274	Yeah, he rotted in the warehouse, and the Chinese sunflower you brought rotted in the warehouse.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0120par0275	We've got it, Minister. We've got the moon core in Aksaray.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0119par0276	Who's it from, sunflower?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0121par0277	What about tobacco? Do you have any tobacco, cotton?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0122par0278	People of the household, I would like to say this very briefly, that the people of the household have been told that their debts are high.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0123par0279	The Adıyaman say: "Eat, drink, and crawl."
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0122par0280	Dear friends, in Turkey, the national income rate of household debt is 19 percent. This is about 100 per cent in developed countries, so Turkey's situation is quite good as well as its household debt.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0124par0281	You didn't tell me the number of execution files, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0125par0282	You don't know the price of bread, so you can't answer, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0122par0283	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as the EC PARTY, we see the budget of 2019 as an important step towards achieving the goals of the new economic programme. With this step, we will build a strong bridge between the stabilisation process we envisioned in the economy and the stable high growth process. I wish the first budget of our presidential government system good luck to our country, to our nation. First, I'd like to thank everyone who's done their job, including our Minister, our Plan and Budget Commission members, our President and our deputies, and I'd love to welcome you all, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0126par0286	Mr. President, you can't fool the citizens, lie and tell the truth by talking about what Mr. President was talking about during his speech. If you know the truth, you'll come out here. He's made a statement in front of our constituents and he's drawn us to the point that if we don't get on the stand and answer this, he'll accept his claims. We'd like to use the right to answer from the bench under Article 69 of the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0127par0287	We couldn't understand, Mr. President, because of the bullying, so we couldn't hear.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0128par0288	Dear friends, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, this conversation is on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, so let's finish these talks, and then we'll see if there's any bullying, and then we'll consider it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0126par0289	Mr. President, this 60-minute tour will now be used by 12 friends tomorrow, for example. In each of those 12 friends -- we know about last year's practices -- right after the bullying, the AK PARTY group will want to take the stand. If you don't make me use that promise, 12 people can't answer if you criticize them separately and then give them two minutes. As a bad example of what you're doing, I can't possibly fit the answers I'm going to give to the charges that your client has already made in two minutes. You say: "You also do what Mehmet Mush is doing at the same time." [[Applause from CHP rows]] From that point on, if you return to these 33 minutes of heavy bullying and to our group and you know the numbers, you will tell them. The right to answer this speech is required at this stage of justice as well as by the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0128par0293	Thank you. After this entire conversation, you'll answer all of them. It'll be more appropriate.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0126par0296	Mr. President, tomorrow...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0129par0297	Be neutral, be fair, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0130par0298	The same thing happened, Mr. Group President spoke the same way after the whole thing.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0131par0299	I'm thinking maybe the things you're going to say might get better and more accurate in that way. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0132par0302	Mr. President, that means...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0131par0303	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0132par0304	Now, what you're saying -- I don't think you mean it -- is that you're giving Mehmet Much the opportunity to give him two minutes of answers, and that's all there is to it. Brother Mehmet, speak as you wish, he won't be able to answer you anyway.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0133par0305	Don't read our intentions, forget it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0132par0306	Instead, it would be appropriate for you to use this right now to defend ourselves during the Mehmet President's speech, as well as for the general practices that have been conducted so far, as well as for our expectations of the Interior Charter, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0133par0307	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0132par0308	Mr. President listened too carefully to be in need of the reports.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0134par0309	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0135par0310	Yes, let's hear it for you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0134par0311	Mr. President, you repeated the same application in the previous session. The HDP Group divided his speech in half. After the first speaker, Mr. Group President requested a statement, and you made a promise to him after the entire speech of the group. In terms of dissimilarity in the application...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0136par0312	It's not an app like that. It's fun.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0134par0313	Therefore, it is appropriate to be given after Mehmet Mush Bey's speech, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0136par0315	Bad exception, no exception.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0137par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0138par0317	Sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0137par0318	Mr. President, it's not possible to say "iktidar" but it's understandable that the party's group, which has a large number of seats and brings the budget, has to sacrifice certain rights, humble in certain matters, withdraw the right to say what they had asked ahead, and this is in the presence of the president of a main opposition party. As it was said earlier, the founder of the Ottoman Empire took advice from his teacher...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0139par0320	Who is it? Who is it?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0137par0321	Friend, Sheik Edebali gives his advice to the ruling party, not to the main opposition party. Allow the main opposition party to have that kind of resistance. The opposition...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0140par0322	I guess two minutes is more accurate than that, apparently. (CHP cheers) We've lost more time. Here, wrap it up in two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0137par0325	Thank you. Mr. President, thank you for your understanding. Mr. Lütfi, Mr. Secretary gave me some numbers, made some comparisons. We'll do two comparisons, Mr. Secretary, from where you know. On January 3, 1993, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan makes a reckoning, and a tea, a bagel, a family of five hits a moon, the number comes out head to head, there's very little left. Let's adapt to today -- you've been asked, you haven't said -- a tea is $1.75, a bagel is $1.75, a total of $3.5. Three meals is $10.5, five is $52, $1.775 a month, $28 a minimum wage. Now, the answer comes from your president: this cruel government does not deserve a tea bagel for this holy nation. How will you go after them, my people? I'm asking about rent, water money, school fees. It's a cruel administration, a tea, a bagel, leaving 28 liras, Lütfi Elvan, Lütfi Elvan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0141par0331	Where did you get the bagel?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0137par0332	Let's go back a little further, if you like, to the account of Nejmuddin Erbakan. When talking about the purchase parity, the dollar, the euro, another account, the basis of the economy is gold. I know the gold account. He used to say Master Hodja, didn't he? The minimum wage in 2002 is 163 lira 56 cents, a quarter of gold is 23.5 liras. A minimum wage is seven quarters of gold, according to the account of Nejmuddin Hoxha. At gold prices yesterday, the minimum wage is 1,603 liras, a quarter of gold $346, a minimum wage of 4.5 quarters of gold. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Lütfi Elvan, according to the account of Nejmettin Hoxha - I mean, I don't listen to him, the foundation of the economy is gold.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0142par0337	Get the fuck out of here. Get out of here.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0137par0338	Mr. President, I'm putting this together, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0143par0339	Here we go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0144par0340	Let him speak for half an hour, Mr. President. He tells good things from the past. He's a private man, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0137par0341	Mr. President, we've heard from Erbakan's voice what a disaster the presidential system will bring, and you've led the country to this disaster because you've forgotten the way of Erbakan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0145par0342	The person who wants the presidential system is Erbakan Hoxha. Erbakan Hodja is the head of those who want the presidential system.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0146par0343	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0137par0344	Mr. President, let me answer your last question. Look, the number of students staying at the dorm... what are we going to compare it to? Do you know what it is? Total student ratio. 182,000 students went up to 664 thousand. You say you're staying in the dorm. The number of students from 1,918 to 7 million 760 thousand... sums it up: When you arrive, 9.5 of every 100 students can now benefit from the dorm. The rest, the children of the poor poor, fall into their nets, into the hands of some dark centers of the congregations you wish to direct, while you are still getting off the train at bus stations. If you want to stop it, you build republican dorms. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, you take care of cult dorms. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0147par0349	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0148par0350	Here you are, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0147par0351	Mr. President, he used my name directly to make statements about me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0148par0352	Here you go. Please complete your speech before you face a new challenge.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0147par0356	Mr. President, thank you very much. First, I want to express my satisfaction: I think it's especially important for Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to read, analyze his past, and try to understand what processes he's going through. Hopefully, it will be a serious contribution to all of you. This has given me an important satisfaction. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for the second one, the same approach, another miscalculation. Now, dear friends, did he mention 7.5 million students?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0149par0360	No, order the tea, order the tea, and we'll go back to the student. Order the tea.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0147par0361	I'll come to him, I'll come to tea, don't worry, I'll come to tea.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0150par0363	Friends, please don't talk to each other, let's listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0147par0364	He mentioned about 7.5 million students.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0151par0365	He mentioned the bagel first, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0147par0366	How many of them are open school students? Why are you including open-school students? You don't get that kind of rate.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0152par0367	Why are you involved in 2002?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0147par0368	You're going to take out the students, you're going to compare them to them, you're going to compare them to them.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0152par0370	Why are you including 2002?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0147par0371	Two...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0152par0372	No, why are you including 2002?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0147par0373	Now, as for our President's tea account... let's see if the bagel gram is the same as the present bagel gram when Mr. President was doing the tea count.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0153par0375	Mr. Lütfi, Elvan, bravo!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0154par0376	Don't say that!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0155par0377	Even the Speaker is laughing at you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0156par0378	If you're having trouble understanding, I'll tell you. It's about 100 grams now, about 100 grams.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0157par0379	100 grams.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0156par0380	100 grams?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0157par0381	100 grams.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0158par0382	Let me tell you, there are bagels waiting for you in Karaman.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0156par0383	It's about 100 grams now, and the bagel grammar at the time is about 60 grams, dear friends, please take a look at it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0159par0385	Pack it up, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0156par0386	So, this debt rate that I mentioned in my speech, all the other rates, the status of the dorms, the conditions, none of it seems to interest you at all.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0160par0387	They all do.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0156par0388	None of it matters.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0160par0389	Come to the gold account.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0161par0390	Mr. Secretary, he eats bagels in luxury places, and he drinks tea in luxury places.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0156par0391	My advice to you is that the investments we've made, the city hospitals...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0160par0392	Did you fall under an ounce?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0162par0393	Citizen knows bagels, bagels.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0163par0394	You're costing five times as much as city hospitals, five times as much.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0164par0395	...please pay a visit to the dorms we've made, look around, look at the quality of service there, then make these evaluations.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0163par0396	You're costing five times as much as city hospitals.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0165par0397	There's no doctor in it, doctor.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0164par0398	Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0165par0400	There's no doctor in it, city hospitals.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0166par0401	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0167par0402	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0166par0403	Mr. President, there's no need for confusion. The minimum wage in 2003 is 161 dollars, today -- that's up -- the minimum wage today is $300.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0168par0404	Why don't you look at the gold account?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0169par0405	Look at Erbakan Hodja.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0166par0406	It's the power they call cruel. It's the account.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0170par0408	$412 in 2001, that account is wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0171par0409	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0172par0410	Mr. President, I'll file a report. First of all, Mr. Elton, of course, it's not easy to get out of a wreck like this, so he's got this confession out of him, he says: "He ate 100 grams of bagels before we got here, citizen, we couldn't stop him, we stole it from the grammar.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0173par0413	No, it's the other way around.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0174par0414	You're getting it all wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0172par0415	But the tea-cymit account is free of grammar. ▪ A cup of tea is a symbolic thing, how much money do you need to eat it? In the account of Mr. Hodja, we tell you today that instead of taking the Trump's dollar, you should calculate the gold in the treasury, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0175par0418	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0176par0419	Mr. President, this boatman has passed the fight!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0175par0420	Mr. President, just for the record, I said the opposite, Mr. Special stated that it was reduced from 100 grams to 60 grams, while it was said by me that it had been increased from 60 grams to 100 grams. From 60 grams to 100 grams. So you can't say in any field that we didn't have the officer or the worker crushed in the face of inflation, and we're not going to get it crushed anymore.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0177par0423	They're moaning, my den!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0178par0424	Thank you. He's on the books. Dear friends...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0179par0426	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0178par0427	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0179par0428	I just want to say in terms of a situation: I'm amazed that Mr. Lütfi Else is still stuck in the bagel while countries around the world prepare to build colonies on Mars. I wanted to make that clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0180par0430	I'm not stuck in the bagel, it's stuck.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0181par0431	Thank you, guys. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the second speaker is Deputy Chairman of the Group and İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0439	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, I'd like to thank the esteemed members of our Plan and Budget Commission, who worked in the process of bringing the budget to the General Assembly of the 2019 budget, and all the working bureaucrats, government officials, government officials. Our Plan and Budget Commission has discussed the budget, studied it, and finally the General Board has a budget. As you know, the budget makes a difference because it's the first budget of the new system. This budget, starting in 2002, constitutes the 17th budget that the EC PARTY authorities bring uninterruptedly. It's the people who own the budget. The elected governments are responsible for best managing the budget, which is the common trust of the nation, which is in the name of the nation. Governments make the common income of society fair and orderly in tax and tax-free ways, and they make the common expenditures of society by honoring the principles of efficiency and decentness in accordance with the management plan they've established, so the budget work is a huge responsibility. At this point, our nation expects the budget to be fair, efficient resource allocation, income-goer balance, sustainability, prosperity. Those who are more sensitive, more zealous, fairer, more willing, and more resourceful at these points are entrusted with the common trust of our nation, its budget. In this respect, the budget is the most concrete performance measure of a government. Our nation was satisfied with the services of the EC PARTY, the increasing international reputation of Turkey, the increasing quality of life quality, the increasing prosperity level, and for 17 years, it kept the EC PARTY in uninterrupted power, not giving any opponent the slightest chance. We have disciplined public finance, one of Turkey's weakest areas, a triggering factor in economic crises, and we have become one of the countries in the world, both at the budget deficit and at the point of public debt. We want to continue this position no matter what happens, and we will continue to continue. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, Turkey has grown by an average of 5.86 per cent during the AK PARTI rule, which is from 2002-2017. This comes in third place after the two countries, in an environment where China grew by 9.36 per cent, where India grew 7.41 per cent. Turkey's economic size grew from $238 billion to $851 billion. The national income of 3,589 per person has risen to $10,537. In the process, our agricultural revenue has increased from $24.5 billion to $51.7 billion. Our industrial production -- which is very important -- has increased by 4.5 times, up from 58.7 billion dollars to 248 billion dollars; in fact, Turkey is also an important industrial country. Our service sector has increased by 3.6 stories, up from $127 billion to 454 billion. Our exports are now going to a record point in our republic's history, where $168 billion will be caught, and in the world trade between 2005 and 17, the average growth is 4.3 per cent, it has managed to increase Turkish exports by 6.6 per cent. Dear lawmakers, look, when you make a comparison, you make a comparison like before and after you come. Turkey's average budget deficit during the decade before the EC PARTY is 6.5 per cent. The greater the deficit, the greater the need for funding, the greater the interest. In AK PARTI rulings, this has dropped to an average of 2.4 per cent. Less budget deficits means less financing costs. And with the falling budget deficit, Turkey's public debt stock -- which has just been said -- has been reduced from 72 per cent to 28 per cent. Dear MPs, the economy is important, Turkey's future is important, Turkey's stay is important. We've had a lot of accusations here that we didn't deserve, that we didn't deserve. There's been talk of transparency, democracy, human rights, law; see, I'm going to show you the other side of the picture, and I'm going to tell you how unfair and inappropriate these accusations are, and these are not my words, and these are not the things that we made up here; they're all things that I'm going to tell you with pictures. As you know, Turkey has been fighting terrorism in addition to economic development for over 34 years, and terrorism is the biggest obstacle to economic development in Turkey. On the one hand, we continue an active fight with terrorist organisations such as PKK/PYD, DEAS, DHKP-C, and CHP. Our goal is to break the back of terror and bring terror to a complete zero. Our security forces are successfully operating within and outside our borders. You know, we've already eliminated the threat of terrorist organizations to Turkey with the Firat Shield and Afrin operations in northern Syria, and we've entered terror dens in the country without saying snow or winter. We're dealing with the political foot of terrorism, the people who have mobilized municipal resources to the terrorist organization, the treacherous networks that provide human resources to the terrorist organization, within the framework of the state of law. The independent judiciary is making judgments about what's going on with terrorism. Here, the justice is carried out entirely in accordance with the law and the law. You know, recently -- the orator who just made the first speech here made a lot of emphasis on these issues -- Demirtaş was convicted by the court on terror charges. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs here criticised this decision and stressed freedom of expression, claiming Demirtaş had nothing to do with terrorism. Now, I ask you, is there no obvious contradiction here? Didn't Demirtaş himself express over and over again that he didn't see the PKK as a terrorist organization? So, on the one hand, I don't see the PKK as a terrorist organization. Why are you judging me because of the PKK? What kind of contradiction is it to say? Why is Demirirtaş being tried for PKK? Can HDP MPs here also say that the PKK is a terrorist organization? What HDP MP has ever been able to go out and curse the PKK terror organization? Neither. No exceptions. Didn't Demirtaş himself say that he wanted to go up the mountain, but that he couldn't go up the mountain because of the capture of the couriers to take him?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0183par0450	Don't be defamatory!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0451	After the couriers were captured, they came up with names, they went to his father's shop, and he could make it sound perfectly normal. Remember, the so-called Democratic Society Congress components, including HDP (HDP) people -- which is the identical twin of the HDP (HDP) -- published a declaration describing self-government on December 27th. Isn't that to have clearly divisive goals? The goal here was to establish autonomy first, then a new state. See, in the autonomous areas that would be created according to this declaration, every service from security and education to health was required by self-government parliaments. The 14-point declaration of the alleged DTK Co-Chair Selma Irmak, DTK Co-Chair Hatip Dicle, announced in Turkish was required to leave tax collection and defence issues to autonomy management. Some of the most dangerous substances in separatist declaration are the establishment of official, local security units that will provide all of the security in the region under the control of the autonomous district; the restructuring of judicial system and justice services according to the autonomous region model; the operating, monitoring, and the ability to take part in production in the ecological framework of land, water and energy resources to the autonomous region management; the transfer of budgeting to the autonomous management of the local government in order to ensure that the services mentioned above are offered. Dear lawmakers, what do these articles mean? Clearly, I will establish my own security force in a certain part of Turkey, and I will collect my own tax and establish my own administration. Isn't that a crime? Isn't that the purpose of the terrorist organization? Isn't that why HDP people are being tried now?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0184par0455	No, no.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0185par0456	They're on trial for depriving you of power.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0457	Demirtaş, who you tried to make innocent today, said at a meeting on December 27, 2015, that the so-called autonomy was declared: ▪ The administration cannot be underestimated. In the ditch against the slaughter, stand and grasp at the barricade.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0185par0458	They're being tried for losing in the election.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0459	I will destroy those who even think about it. The moat is not much of a barricade for those who say so. What were they going to do? Remember those days.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0185par0460	They're being tried for losing in a fair election.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0461	In a particular part of Turkey, terrorist networks tried to create an autonomous area for themselves, and at the same time, they published this declaration. They're not innocent at all. That doesn't mean it's freedom of speech. The 14-point declaration of autonomy and the statement made by Demirtaş were clearly intended to divide and tear Turkey apart.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0185par0462	They were the demands of democracy, democracy. You perceive democracy as a threat.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0186par0463	Haven't you ever read Northern Ireland?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0464	They were a manifestation of PKK's political goals. It would be extremely wrong to stand up here as if it were part of the freedom of expression, while both EU legislation and the ECHR decisions, both Venice Commission decisions stressing that praising violence and terrorism is not part of freedom of expression. There's a structure that supplies him with the bomb and the bullet when the terrorist shoots a bullet. Those who cooperate with that structure are equivalent to the terrorist who dropped that bomb. So if you give a gun to the killer and you put a bullet in him, it's a killer, remember that.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0187par0466	You're doing it, you're doing it! You're doing it!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0188par0467	Where'd the guns go with the trucks?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0468	I'd like to make one more point here. Sezai Baselli, who just spoke on behalf of HDP, has questioned why dams were made in our eastern and southeast provinces. I ask you, why do the dams we make for our citizens in the region bother you?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0187par0469	He talked about a dam with no water, a dam without water!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0188par0470	No water, said Sezai Permanent.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0471	Why do you serve a citizen in this government's budget talks? What is the epiphany of disabled understanding?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0187par0472	Nothing happens when you propose a new form of governance. Is it a crime when you propose a new form of governance, not a crime, but a crime when we suggest it?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0473	Isn't the terrorist organization also uncomfortable with dams and airports in the region? Didn't he burn down the labor machines so that the services wouldn't go, or slaughter the workers who worked there?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0187par0475	If you recommend a new management model, is that a crime, not a crime, when we suggest it?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0476	Again, Pervin Buldan has just expressed his subconscious longing for rebellion by stressing rebellion and resistance.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0187par0477	It's your subconscious, your subconscious!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0182par0478	We regretfully condemn these threats under the roof of this House. Remember: In Turkey, power changes only by choice.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0187par0479	Yeah, well, we'd like to exchange it for an election.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0189par0480	What about the trustee, trustee?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0187par0481	What's a trustee?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0190par0482	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I want to tell you today about a dirty alliance deal with Kandil.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0187par0483	Tell me about your alliance.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0191par0484	You've stolen the will of the people.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0190par0485	You know, last November, Republican People's Party President Kilicdaroglu made a trip to Germany. Here he met with a delegation of deputies led by a German federal deputy named Sevim Dağdelen.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0192par0486	Oslo, Oslo, Oslo!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0193par0487	Tell me about Oslo, Oslo.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0190par0488	And who is this Sevim Mountaindelen? In the Federal Assembly of Germany, see, he's an MP who opens the PYD flag.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0192par0489	Who sat at the table in Oslo?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0190par0490	Bula found this congressman and met him. This is not the Turkish flag. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, the Helin Evolution Sommer is in this meeting, in this assembly; they're having a meeting with Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0194par0493	Is it the Kilicdaroglu who opened it? Oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh,
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0190par0494	And who is this person? This person is a PKK sympathizer. Turkey is a German parliamentarian who lobbys against it, making efforts to impose sanctions on Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0195par0495	Didn't you sit down with the terrorist, what sympathizer are you talking about? It's a shame, it's a shame! You'll have to answer for Oslo first!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0190par0496	The other is another person in the German Parliament who condemned Turkey's operations against Afrin and Cerablus. Look, what did you just say to the parliamentarians who opposed the Afrin operation in Germany? Get out of here and tell me what you're talking about.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0196par0498	Is Afrin your land? Your land?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0190par0499	Who are you to protect the land?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0197par0501	Don't go too far, don't go too far!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0196par0502	Is Afrin your land? Afrin is your land?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0197par0503	Mr. President, please warn me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0198par0504	Kılıçdaroğlu met with this PKK co-conspirator.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0197par0506	Mr. President, please warn me. ▪ Who are you to protect the country?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0199par0507	Let him take it back, Mr. President!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0200par0508	Is it up to you, country land? Is there a country left? You sold the country.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0201par0509	So, I ask the CHP Group: What did Kilicdaroglu discuss with these PKK supporters? What did he consult on?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0202par0510	Mr. Orator, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0201par0511	Or did he negotiate an alliance with HDP on this person for local elections?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0203par0513	Let him take his words back, sir, he's out of his league.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0204par0514	Please let him take his words back, he clearly turns us on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0205par0515	Friends, please listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0206par0516	He's picking on everyone, Mayor, the warner.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0207par0517	What are we going to listen to? Whoever he's trying to be good for.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0205par0518	Address the General Assembly, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0208par0519	You know, there's a saying that's worse than his guilt.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0209par0520	You're the one who's got the country after the gangs!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0208par0521	...the vice president of CHP makes a statement and says that our visit to Germany is being watched with envy. They are elected German parliamentarians. I ask myself: What is the envy of your meeting with a German MP, the PKK representative; come out, explain this. When Deniz Baykal said that he was critical of Kılıçdaroğlu, he had an axis shift. Here's the axis that was next to you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0210par0523	Look at your axis, you don't know what axis you're on! Your axis slipped!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0208par0524	CHP's leaders, Demirtaşa, who were fans of Demirtaş, had great ideas after meeting with Demirtaş, the CHP's director, who shared the message with CHP's letter with Demirtaş.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0210par0525	All of Turkey says so, all of Turkey! He's got great ideas, so you targeted him.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0208par0526	Look, you see this, right? Look, he's got a picture of him playing the reed. This is CHP's letter. The messenger is the vice president of the CHP. In the past, an assistant of theirs also stated that he voted as a family.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0211par0527	He'll be as stoned as the CHP! That's enough!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0208par0528	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, this axis shift has come to a point where...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0212par0529	The country's shaft has slipped, the axis has not slipped!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0208par0530	I mean, it's at a point in the CHP Congress where the only person who's ever going to take down Kılıçdaroğlu is Demirtaş, no doubt about it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0213par0532	It is Demirtaş who will overthrow your power, your power. Your power will fall, your power.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0208par0533	Now, of course, Mr. Kilicdaroglu is being mindful and trying to sell a dirty alliance with the PKK/PD behind it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0214par0535	You're dirty! Stop saying "dirty"!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0215par0536	This is happening because you are afraid of Demirtaş.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0216par0537	You've got bad news, Demirtaş, your nightmare.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0217par0538	On the one hand, CHP party executives will meet with HDP in the hotel lobby in Germany in secret and do not nominate you in the cities, but do not disclose your alliance with us to the public. On the other hand, the People's Party (HDP) will support us from outside. They are conducting talks. Look, dear lawmakers, I want to tell you the size of the game. What does HDP Co-Chair Pervin Buldan say? In major cities such as Ankara and Istanbul, we can support the candidate of CHP and the candidate of GOOD PARTI.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0218par0541	We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0219par0542	We're gonna ask you who we're gonna support? We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0218par0543	Mind your own business, mind your own business. You're going down everywhere! We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0220par0544	What does another CHP executive say? We cooperate with all but the Chamhur alliance.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0218par0545	Anything but fascism is fair.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0220par0546	We will co-operate with the HDP. He can't say, but he means it in such convoluted ways, in sentences.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0221par0547	HDP is a legal party, a legal party! HDP is a legal party, you know that!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0220par0548	It's because they're afraid of people. Tell me clearly what you want to do, you don't have to meet in hotels.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0222par0550	What's the opening, what's the definition?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0223par0551	What are you afraid of?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0222par0552	Tell me what it stands for, it stands for. Tell me about Oslo.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0224par0553	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're not going to be able to...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0225par0554	Why does he bother you so much?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0226par0555	Respect the law, respect the law.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0224par0556	...is the CHP who initially reacted against the appointment of trustees to HDP-based municipalities to the terrorist organisation.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0225par0557	You can't sleep, you can't sleep. It's your nightmare that's happened. You'll have that dream. We'll send you out of here slowly.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0224par0558	While Demirtaş himself does not deny the PKK's contact, the court's ruling is first contested by CHP's deputy group leader. Why? To consolidate that kinship.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0227par0560	Come to me, come to me!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0224par0561	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to give you a warning here...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0228par0562	Go warn yourself in the mirror!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0229par0563	Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0224par0564	...good PARTY is part of the game.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0230par0566	Come on! What's part of the game?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0231par0567	Don't let him pick on everybody. Don't let him pick on everybody. You're a bunch of vice presidents!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0224par0568	What did Mr. Akshener say after the election? Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) is the representative of the Kurdish political movement. Since when do children's murderers become representatives of our Kurdish brothers and sisters? What kind of statement is that?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0232par0570	Know your place, your place! You've been blowing the terror organization's horn for years! You sent guns, you killed people. Know your place!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0231par0571	Tell us about your relations with terrorist organizations, ISIS!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0224par0572	Look, Mr. Akşener must know that the HDP who trumpeted Kandil will never, ever represent our Kurdish brothers and sisters to the floor.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0232par0573	You shared with ISIS and killed thousands of people. He's talking about the horn, you're the biggest trumpet.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0224par0574	I'm curious here, Mr. Akşener. What brings Mr. Akşener to the Kurdish political movement? This needs to be explained.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0233par0576	Holy shit!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0234par0577	Is this a fucking jungle? Bear!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0235par0578	You're rude! Look at that! What's he talking about?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0234par0579	Don't let him in here...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0236par0580	Come, come!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0237par0581	You dirty bastard! Come, come!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit03spe0238par0583	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0238par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The statement made by Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk, in the session just now requires temporary removal from Parliament, as part of Article 161 of the First Amendment. Therefore, I will propose to Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk, that he be sentenced to a temporary release of 2 mergers from parliament under Article 163 of the Civil Code. Mr. Ozturk may plead or use another MP's right to defend. Mr. Ozturk, will he plead? No.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0239par0008	Mr. President, if you promise me something.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0238par0009	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0239par0010	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers can blame groups, opposition or power on this bench -- various crimes -- that's possible. It's happened in the past, and it'll happen after that. However, it is also right to react without changing the language of the House. So before we can break the language of this House, we have to prevent ourselves, and then I suggest to you, it's not the right language. I think that our friend's language is a language aimed at disturbing the peace of the House, and I think the steps we take from here on out can cause serious discomfort. But I also want to point out that this wasn't a very planned event, it was an incident that I was very upset about. I'm really sorry -- people who know me know -- I can safely say I don't approve, but I got a response in a way that I'm very upset about. However, the most gentleman in this House, the most fluent in language, and the work of a friend whom we like and approve of -- will now be impressed by the applause that comes -- has made the subject a serious turn-on, I'm afraid. In our next talks, it is our greatest desire to continue the House in a way that is free of provocation, but far from answering in this language. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0238par0012	I submit to your votes that under the 161st Article of the Civil Charter, you will be sentenced to a temporary release of two mergers from the Parliament: those who accept... those who do not accept... [Voices, applause]
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0240par0013	Why won't you accept it? It doesn't suit me, it doesn't suit me!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0238par0014	Sustained. Mr. Ozturk, please leave the General Assembly. We continue our talks from 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. The commission is in place. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the second speaker, Deputy Leader of the Group, İstanbul MP Mehmet Mushan's speech was interrupted. I now call to the stand to complete his speech. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0241par0026	Mr. President, I've been serving our nation as Istanbul MP since 2011, under the roof of this Parliament. In any speech or in these eight years, I've never used a word to a congressman's person, family, reputation. All my criticisms, my analysis, are purely political, and how we see things in terms of our party. I have no intention of provoking anyone. It's just that, in fact, I wanted to give a very good warning, and I pointed out a conversation that had been done before. And I really don't think it's right to think of it as a motive.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0242par0028	What happened to you, Mr. Mush?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0241par0029	Look, while we're just sitting here, the Republican People's Party orator, speak to Mr. Kilicdaroglu, he calls us in how many places. It's not illegal. When they do, those who protect them, those who watch over the thieves...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0242par0030	He never told you, he never told you!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0241par0031	Guys, look, don't talk too much. Look, the context of the conversation is that we're the ones who protect and protect them. It's not forbidden from us, my friends, but it's what we believe. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, look, here is the long-term agenda of Parliament, which has been repeated again today: Man Island.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0243par0034	Malta Island.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0241par0035	Sir, they sent $15 million abroad, and it went like this, here's their SWIFT. What happened? The court has moved on, and the court has made a decision.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0244par0036	Whose trial?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0245par0037	What court? What judgment?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0246par0038	Is the money gone or is it here?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0247par0039	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0248par0040	Friends, please, let's listen to the preacher, and you'll consider it later.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0249par0041	As a result of the court's verdict, the defendant was wrong. It was a slander, it was a lie, it was determined by a court order that it was not true, and as a result of this court ruling, it was ordered by Mr. Kilicdaroglu to pay a compensation from the press, perhaps 800-900, perhaps more.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0250par0042	He ruled an unprecedented compensation in Turkish history.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0249par0043	Now, my dear friends, look, you don't like the court's decision, you take it out when it suits you, you explain the court order.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0251par0044	Do you like it?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0249par0045	We express what you say, what you say in the past, you don't like it. We'll show you who you're seeing, and you won't like it. You'll scream and call, but you'll have to excuse us, you'll have to listen, you'll have to pay for your baseless allegations. It's a political thing to do. Look, because of the island of Man, maybe 800, maybe 900 - as far as we can see - he was sentenced to compensation, and as far as I know, he invested it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0252par0047	May God feed you!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0249par0048	Before that, there were compensations paid by Mr. Kilicdaroğlu. It's a party that's so transparent, not a small amount of money.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0253par0049	The President has no responsibility to pay, brother!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0249par0050	Put it on your website, how did you pay for it? How do you pay these compensations? Is the treasure being paid for? Let's see where it comes from.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0253par0052	He sold his house, paid for it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0254par0053	He sold his house.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0255par0054	You'll have your answer in a moment, Mr. Mush. We don't have pool media, illegal media, businessmen.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0254par0055	Yavuz, the thief proved the landlord wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0056	Now, look, there's been talk of debts, interest, rights of workers. Look at Izmir Metropolitan Municipality today, why are there people on strike? WHY do people strike in the field? Why did they stand up? Give me an explanation.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0257par0058	Is it just the city's?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0059	Have you ever looked at the debts of the municipalities you run? Did you ever look at the level of debt they've come to right now after you've taken these municipalities?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0258par0060	Look at the tenders you've been giving.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0061	Have you ever calculated the interest rates the municipalities under your administration have paid since you took over?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0259par0062	Who paid off Ankara City Hall's debt?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0063	Dear MPs, look, the current Ataşehir Mayor has been sentenced to ten months. Why was he punished? The previous mayor has been suspended from office, and I've made several allegations related to him here, and I've called from here to the Republican People's Party administration to investigate these allegations and do what is necessary.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0260par0064	Explain why you sent her away.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0065	I didn't hear a word. So, why are you protecting this shakedown? Isn't that a shakedown?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0261par0067	What happened to Melih Gökçek, Melih Gökçek, the collector, Melih Gökçek?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0068	Have you carried out any disciplinary action regarding this shakedown? No. But Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who opposes his position, is immediately transferred to discipline and expelled from the party. That's the idea of democracy.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0261par0069	And you took him by the ear, and threw him away.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0070	Look, we're not going to lay off anyone in the municipalities we've won...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0262par0071	Tell them about Urbana, Balıkesir, Ankara, İstanbul. Why did you relieve the mayors?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0072	You go to Silivri, talk to him, go to Beylikduzü, talk to him, go to Sarıyer, Maltepe, Silivri, and how many people have been laid off after they have won the questions for the people? Your president probably doesn't know about this.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0262par0073	Tell me why you took out the mayors, tell them about the strikes you put off.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0074	Dear lawmakers, look, promises are good things, but if you make them happen. See, in 2009, Mr. Kilicdaroglu was running for mayor of İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, saying: "I will pay 600 lira to poor families, and I promise social security. Now, we've taken the $600 from that day, we've brought it to the present day, making $1,463 lira today's figures.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0263par0075	Why did you relieve four ministers? Why didn't you make a statement?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0076	He's the president, and Mr. President reminded him of it. Come on, do it. We've been waiting ever since. Did Izmir do it too? No. Did he do it in Aydýl? No. Did he do it? No. Did he do it in Eskişehir? No. Did Hatay do it too? No. So, where are you gonna do it?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0264par0078	We applied minimum wage everywhere at 1,500.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0079	Look, the BSKI incident: Dear lawmakers, I think there's something wrong with the memo given to Mr. Kilicdaroglu about the ISKI. The statistics that he described before 1994 belong to SMI, not to us, not to us. Look, there are 15 million people in Istanbul.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0265par0081	Why did you take Kadir Topbaş, my friends?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0266par0082	Guys, please calm down.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0083	THE number of subscribers is approximately 6.5 million. In two days, 64 percent of the people whose water has been cut are watered. $180 is paid for the subscription agreement.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0267par0084	To people who sell parcels...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0085	And no one's getting watered down until that number gets around. Three bills are cut off if the bill is not paid in a row, and the number, friends, is this: no total number of subscribers in any period exceeds five percent. I mean, it's not like 400 grand is true. Look, here, the esteemed MPs... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, you know there have been some developments in France lately. The assistant secretary general, Uður Tunçay, is sharing this, this. That's what he's doing. That's what he's doing. You know what he says? Look, you can't fill your sails with the wind that blows there; you have to go to the public, the ring.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0268par0090	We go public, we don't land. Are the people down there?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0091	The mass, described as yellow vests, begins a street movement. You saw the police's violent intervention there, didn't you?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0269par0092	Is that why you're taking the Travelers into custody?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0093	Meanwhile, we have also seen the human rights standards of the EU (EU) that try to give human rights lessons to Turkish police. Of course, I'm not going to tell you about it here for a long time.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0270par0094	You slaughtered our children while they were sleeping.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0095	I'd like to express that right there. When he saw these yellow vests, when he saw the events here, I think some of the CHP's executives began to feel differently. But don't try, our government or our nation won't let you. I'm warning you!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0271par0097	We're not moving with the vest, we're moving with the wrist.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0098	There is no democracy left in Turkey. Look, I just want to share a little chronology with you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0272par0099	There's no room in the prisons.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0100	Look, CHP has a democratic record; certain events: if the terms are complete, the revolution is legitimate. That's what Parliament says.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0273par0101	Who's to say, blood or no blood?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0102	It's right in the middle of the May 27 coup, CHP. The CHP supported the postmodern coup on February 28th. Remember, on the night of April 27th, CHP executives made a series of support statements.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0274par0103	Ergenoko's prosecutor...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0104	The CHP is also the main role of the Gezi events launched to cause chaos.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0275par0106	May Allah do as He wills.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0107	After 17-25, the CHP is the one who cooperates with it and tries to protect it. They know how the canals protect them, how they entertain them in the office. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Make the government look like a massacrer... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] People who have signed the declaration of academics who are trying to make the PKK look innocent are the People's Republican People's Party (HDP).
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0276par0112	Yes, wrap it up, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0113	The Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) editorial body is also owned by the People's Party (PKK). Look, these are the headlines. The riot is making headlines, the riots. Against who? Against the government. Who's taking care of this? CHP. [[Noises from CHP rows]] People, it's the CHP's representatives calling the coup attempt on July 15th, not us.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0277par0116	Pass them, pass them. You don't eat. Come to the fertilizer, to the fertilizer.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0117	In fact, a CHP MP has gone so far as to say that 250 of our citizens have been killed by the government. Now, of course, when I remind them of that, friends get uncomfortable. Guys, this is what you say and do. I didn't comment on that. Look, Mr. Kilicdaroglu also has very good election projections.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0278par0120	Tell the people of YIT, tell them about the subcontractor...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0121	I'm announcing CHP's election forecasts: Look, I call them dreams and facts. What does Mr. Kilicdaroglu say before the 2011 elections?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0278par0122	Get 'em, get 'em!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0123	When I became General President, I targeted myself. Our target is 40 percent. What did they get, Mr. Lawmakers? 25.98 percent. Before the 2014 presidential elections, Mr. Kilicdaroglu's goal is at least 60 per cent. The truth is 38 per cent. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Before the June 7, 2015 elections, Mr. President-General says: "If my vote falls, I have no idea that I will stay in my seat. The vote taken by CHP is 24,82 per cent.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0279par0127	Don't tell them about the elections, let them go. Tell me about absence, poverty.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0128	Before the November 1st 2015 elections, Mr. President-General says that we have 35 percent of our goals; we're going to hit it, we're going to get through it. If the CHP vote falls, we'll say we didn't do it. The CHP vote is 25.3 per cent. The April 16th referendum will come out.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0280par0130	None of your business!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0281par0131	These are budget figures, budget figures?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0132	Conclusion: "Yes" came out. 2018 is an estimate of the election results. Mr. Kilicdaroglu, Mr. President-General says that our target is 60 percent, not 51 percent, 60 percent. I say 60 percent, but you say 70 percent, maybe 70 percent.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0280par0133	If you hadn't stolen it, you would have.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0256par0134	CHP: 22%. So, what does Kilicdaroglu do when this election doesn't hold up?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0280par0135	None of your business!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0282par0136	Where is Ahmet Davutoglu?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0283par0137	Why don't you tell us what you did to Davutoglu? Where's Davutoglu?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0284par0138	Either he's taking the excuse that the unsealed vote was used, or he's blaming the public, or he's trying to explain that 20 percent of people are greater than 50 percent. Now, I'm looking forward to your predictions about 2019.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0285par0139	Ask Davutoglu.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0284par0140	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Cumhur Alliance, is a manifestation of the spirit that our nation put forth on July 15th. In the heart of this alliance is the love of country and nation.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0286par0141	Fear, fear!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0284par0142	Hopefully this alliance will move on strong. The presidential government system, which we successfully implemented today...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0286par0143	May God have mercy on you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0284par0144	...that the Republic Alliance has given our country a great...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0287par0146	Mr. President, give me a little more time.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0284par0147	Let someone rub his hand when the dollar goes up dry. Let him rejoice, even if it's ten liras, and let the country dream of going down.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0288par0148	Do you make the minimum fee 2,200 in your municipalities?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0284par0149	Let someone cooperate with cheap political accounts and terrorist supporters, and let someone be disturbed by terrorist organization operations, domestic technologies, drones, and SORAs; we will continue to raise, protect, protect Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0289par0151	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0290par0152	You raise men like Genghis, like Genghis!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0291par0153	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0289par0154	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0291par0155	Mr. President, I'd like 20 minutes, sir, according to the Civil Code 69, to respond to all these abuses and insults.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0292par0156	And you set the timer, well done!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0291par0157	Appreciation is the President's.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0293par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0294par0159	Don't make fun of me, right?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0291par0161	Sir, without teasing.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0294par0162	You know the time better than I do.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0291par0163	You'll appreciate the rest.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0294par0164	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0291par0168	Mr. President, let's start with that photograph in Germany. Mr. Mehmet Mush, this is Sevim Dağdelen you're talking about. I've got a story: National Assembly of Turkey's National Assembly of Foreign Affairs Commissioner AK PARTI MP Cemalettin Kani Torun, AK PARTI İstanbul MP Haydar Ali Yıldız, MP Mehmet Günal, CHP İzmir MP Oğuz Kaan Salici and AK PARTİ Hatay MP Fevzi Shanverdi with experts along with Federal Parliament's Foreign Relations Commission Chairman Norbert Röttgen, members Marilusie Beck, Nils Mother and Sevim Dağdelen. Here's a picture.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0295par0171	It doesn't make you right.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0291par0172	Look, Sevim Mountaindalen is sitting across the street from three of your party deputies. If you're going to answer for this photo, ask for it. But if you're talking about taking a photo with someone who supports a terrorist organization and you're going to ask them, ask them to account for this photo taken with Hikmetyar.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0295par0174	Woe to you! Woe to you!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0291par0175	No, but no, he's not, but he's the head of every evil, Trump! He made a coup, he planned it there, he raised the dollar to $7! He supports the PYD, supports the PKK, and all Turkey embraces its enemies. You're bragging about that photo, that photo. (CHP clapping) Oh, my, oh, my, oh, my! The Anadolu Agency is proud to present! Mr. President had breakfast with Donald Trump. What are we gonna do? If he's going to answer for a photo, sir, I wish he'd asked for an account of this photo. (Applause from CHP rows) 11 of them are your deputies, and you've made 6 of them deputies again without shame, without boredom. Now, let's just say, for one thing...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0296par0178	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0291par0179	Thank you. Mr. President, as for the matter of Man Island, there have been three compensations on Man Island, and all three of the compensations have been changed, and the court's final compensation hearing has been changed a day ago. His Majesty's judgment covers His Majesty's filth. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In terms of the EZBAN, our President confirms the partnership of the State Railways with his body language. Responsibility is on State Railways, but we know one more thing. You're saying that it's freedom to build a grev. You brought it here one night and removed the strike in the line of business by the airlines, and 316 working stewardesses used their actual right to resist; you played with their bread and their bread; you fired them all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My last word, Mr. President, was from our Deputy Secretary General until a month and a half ago, which was mentioned and then deleted. As the Republican People's Party, we do politics with a heart, not a vest.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0297par0186	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0298par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0297par0188	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0298par0189	I want to talk to you about teasing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0297par0190	Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0298par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we all know that there are those who stir up the neighborhood, and there are those who stir up the villages, so there are those who stir up the coven. The council almost broke heads. A group of vice presidents should have protected the House's reputation, but what has it done to the House, to celebrate it too! This is what suits the AKP. Again, there is something else that suits the AKP. Although Demirtaş has been punished, their hatred is still not removed; we have seen it very clearly. We thought it was in the President's person, but it's not like Demirtaş's rage is going away from all the AKP people. Know this, my friends: Demirtaş will continue to resist, and let it be trouble for you, and Demirtaş will not kneel.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0299par0197	Tell us about PKK's actions.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0298par0198	Let her go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0299par0199	Tell me what you do to women, what you do to little girls, if you dare.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0298par0200	Leave him, leave that story, leave the story. Demirtaş will continue to resist. Demirtaş, whatever happened to you on June 7th, we will do the same to you on March 31st, remember that.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0300par0203	We're here on April Fool's Day, April Fool's Day.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0298par0204	Demirtaş's trial said, "This is not what he said, Demirtaş was punished for your domestic political needs entirely, and the entire world has already declared it in the eyes of the public. You said, "Democratic autonomy," and remember that one day you will be judged for what you did in that ditch.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0301par0207	Oh, come on! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0302par0208	You will be judged.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0298par0209	Don't ever forget that, and don't try to hide your guilt by saying, "Hell." You'll be charged with killing people alive, leaving funerals on the street for a week, causing them to hide in the fridge.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0301par0212	Oh, for fuck's sake! Boo-hoo!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0298par0213	You'll be judged, don't forget that.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0301par0214	Shame on you, woman!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0303par0215	People die, people die.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0304par0216	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0217	The second thing: Pervin Buldan, as a woman who gave birth to her wife on the day of her death as well as to her political identity, is that we are grateful if she still says peace... peace... peace.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0306par0218	Come on, get over there! Peace of what?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0219	We appreciate that.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0306par0220	You do it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0221	Pervin Buldan is peace, democracy, justice.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0306par0222	Yeah, right!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0223	This is the opinion of the entire HDP; despite you, the HDP will continue to call Pervin Buldan peace despite you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0307par0225	If we didn't know, we'd believe it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0226	Don't talk about it. Let me tell you something else, guys, about Afrin. You're telling Afrin that you're going to defend the land. Afrin is not your homeland, Mr. Mush, you're confusing, your memory is confused, your mind is confused. Afrin is not your land, friends, be smart, be smart, Afrin is not your land, it's another country's land. You've been there, you've been there, you've been there, you've been there... [[Applause from HDP rows, noise from AK PARTI rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you went there and handed it over to ISIS, where you made ISIS breathe, accept that.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0308par0231	We're just gonna leave it with PYD?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0232	As for the yellow vests...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0309par0233	Sit down, sit down, just sit down, okay.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0310par0234	Please, thank me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0235	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0309par0236	Okay, sit down, that's it, okay.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0310par0237	I gave everyone the same app.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0238	Okay. You're using yellow vests as an example of France. Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0311par0241	I did the same app. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0242	It's not the same app.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0311par0243	I gave him an extension.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0305par0244	My friends, let me tell you: You set an example of France. At least follow his example, he shoots rubber bullets. Kemal Korkur was killed by a real bullet. How was Berkin killed, how was Ismail Korkmaz killed?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0311par0246	Yes, Mr. Orator, please take your seat.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0312par0247	How did 55 people get killed in the Kobani incident?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0313par0248	How...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0314par0249	And don't give me that shit all the time, okay?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0313par0250	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0315par0251	Thank you, Mr. Orator, please take your seat.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0314par0253	Demirtaş will continue to enter your dreams.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0313par0254	What did he say, Mr. President? What did you just say? Are you all right? Are you okay? His head's gone.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0316par0255	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to Mr. Mehmet Mush. Before that tour passed, Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0317par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0318par0257	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0319par0258	Mr. President, he's making some weird moves. Is that even possible? Is this the MP or what?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0320par0259	What do you say?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0318par0260	I don't understand, wait a minute... who is it?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0319par0261	He's doing hand gestures. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0320par0262	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0321par0263	Mr. President, there have been some statements that have been targeted personally into the political criticism I've made here. This is an open taunt according to the Civil Code 69. I demand word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0322par0264	What are you talking about, woman? What do you always say?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0320par0265	I don't understand what you're saying.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0323par0266	Mr. President, before that, I asked for a statement from Mr. Mehmet Mush. Later on, about the speakers talking...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0322par0267	I'm telling you, don't pick on the HDP people again. Speech! I'm saying you won't pick on HDP people when they come out.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0320par0268	What's it to you? I'm on sale, and I'm gonna pick on you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0324par0269	Yes, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, I promise the Deputy Chairman of the Group, I'll promise you later.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0322par0271	You can't fool around. There's nothing for you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0320par0272	I'm teasing you, come on, do it, I'm teasing you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0324par0273	Guys, let's not talk in person, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0320par0274	I'm teasing you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0325par0275	We went to the mosque yard to the boy's condolences before you did, and you didn't even make it. Have you seen that boy in six years?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0324par0276	Yes, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0326par0278	Yes, if you'll excuse me, I want this boatman fight between you to end. Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0325par0279	The kid's checking up on us.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0324par0280	Friends, please listen to the speaker. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0327par0282	When I thought Mr. Mehmet Mush was dating as an economist, Mr. Mehmet Mush was going to talk about things in the budget that we missed, perhaps didn't realize, should be discussed in the budget. And he looked, and the applause was great, and he went from there, and came all the way to Mr. Meral Akşener. Mr. Coral Akşener is the only female politician who has survived Turkey for 25 years.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0328par0284	Are the others sitting down?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0327par0285	The only woman who's survived for 25 years is a politician. His background is clear, his grandfather is clear, his attitude towards the PKK is clear, and his position is clear. Look, I'm going to read to you now: "Aggressor has the ability and experience to read events, his messages reflect a sensitivity to the future of the process. " Of course not, Yalçın Akdoğan. It is a place that has contributed to Turkey's democratisation process, and it says very meaningful, very valuable things in Imralı. • Mehmet Metiner, who has been a member of your three-term parliament. ▪ He read well the future of the world and set a new goal for the Kurds in front of the PKK. There are demands for better terms. These demands are normal, legitimate. It's Yasin Aktay, your MP. Bulent Arinc: The exits have become more qualified than before. I do not understand the quality of climbing into the mountain, and you will explain it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0329par0288	Did you get it from Google?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0327par0289	Bashir Atalay: Abdullah Ocalan is the leader of the Kurds.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0329par0290	That's been denied, Mr. President, denied.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0327par0291	Sadullah Ergin: The region and Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0330par0294	Pack it up.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0327par0295	...he's a better judge of the real policy. After all this, I'm going to show you a picture and a story. Mr. Ravza Kavakcı Kan shares his Twitter account: We visited the German Federal Council (Bundesrat) and also exchanged information about the federal system as part of the German talks with our General Central Committee. I hope you'll explain it to me when you get here.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0331par0297	No, because even the Germans were surprised at him.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0332par0298	That's the story.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0327par0299	Well, that's the story. Democratic Progress Institute (DPI) criticised its visit, which is known as the British representative of the DPI Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Who visited this organization known as PKK's representative of England? This is Mr. Taner Star, Mr. Mehdi Eker and Efkan Ala. We've been through this, I've just seen it, but I think he's here. Do you remember that picture? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Coral Akşener, Lütfü Türkkan, Yavuz Yekalioğlu; the dissolution process, we went together. It's a picture of the process where you dig those trenches and bury them in those ditchs. So that Allah may bring about for you your affairs, and that you may act righteously, and that you may deal justly with the righteous. (Bravo (Applause, applause, applause) In the continuation of this solution process with the PKK...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0333par0303	We're doing the biggest fight, we're doing the biggest fight.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0327par0304	I've told the HDP Group here, they don't have business with you, you've been running with the peasants; they've been talking to your Aghas, their Aghas are abroad, and you're cooperating with them.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0334par0306	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0335par0307	Shame on you! Mr. Lütfü, it's a shame!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0334par0308	Mr. Mehmet, without further ado... Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0312	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're not going to prolong the debate here, everyone has made their speech. Our nation will make the best of it, weigh it on its own scale. Look, one of them's a commission photo. Now, our Foreign Affairs Commission is probably out of here, meeting with the German Foreign Affairs Commission, which is true, and we're not the ones who organized the meeting.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0337par0315	Don't let the goose burn!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0316	In another, you organize it, and those invited there are anti-Turkey parliamentarians.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0337par0317	Turn it!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0318	It's a private meeting that you're organizing, and the cameras are being taken out at a second meeting.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0337par0319	Turn it, turn it!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0320	The press is being released. Why are the press being taken out, what were they talking about at those meetings? You need to explain that. Second of all, they think every bearded man they see is a DAEŞ man, everything they see.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0338par0322	He's al-Qaedaci, al-Qaedaci.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0323	The Hikmetyar they were talking about is a man who fought for his country during the war in Afghanistan, who was supported by Turkey at the time.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0339par0324	He is the father of ISIS.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0338par0325	He is the father of ISIS.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0326	There's no such thing as ISIS at the time. (APPLAUSE) As they say, don't always think of the bearded as your grandfather. You make such comments because you think every bearded person you see is DAESH.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0340par0327	The founder of Hikmetyar Al-Qaeda, Sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0328	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the other thing is, look, it's very easy to share a photograph, but I'm stressing something, look...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0340par0329	Why did you come to him in front of Fetullah? Why did you take a picture in front of Fetollah?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0330	I don't want to say anything now that his mercy has come to Rahman, his mercy has come to Rahman, and there's a photograph of the presidents in the past, so there's no point in saying it now.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0340par0331	Why are you so attached to this place? Is it a mosque? Is that shuh? Tell me, why are you standing in front of Fetullah?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0332	But after December 17th and 25th, when some of the state and political parties were fighting here, who was fighting with his representatives there to keep the canals from being shut down?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0340par0333	Why did you stand ready in front of Fetullah? Why did you tie your head? Is it a mosque or a mosque? Tell me!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0334	Republican People's Party. Dude, look, this government is fighting, there's an operation going on here.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0340par0335	Why did you tie your head in front of Fetullah? Why'd you get ready? Why did you give me a picture? And get a picture of the CHP guy!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0336	Look, Bank, in front of Asia, in front of today's paper, and in front of his office... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, guys, the Zaman newspaper meets me in the office after December 17th-25th.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0341par0339	Collect your words, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0340	You can increase the number of these photos. It's what you do, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0342par0341	Why did you tie your head? Why are you here? Why did you say Fetullah Hodja Efendi?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0342	Another one, Mr. President, look, I'm not going to prolong this discussion.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0342par0343	Give it to me! Whoever cooperates with Fetullah will challenge you! Let's check it out. Come on!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0336par0344	Dear friends, relax, I said I wanted to give you a warning from here, and I referred to a speech from Mr. President General, and I criticized him for using a statement like that. Guys, you're not gonna be uncomfortable with this. There's a phrase like that, and I can criticize it as a politician, and it's my right to criticize it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0342par0347	Let's find out who's working with him, whatever political party he's at, let's go!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0343par0348	Where's the political foot, political foot?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0344par0349	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0345par0350	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0344par0351	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Turkkan pointed out our group and taunted us with phrases such as the aghasts. I want a promise.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0345par0353	Guys, we can't find the end of this, so please...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0344par0354	I'm not going to challenge you again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0345par0355	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0344par0356	I won't give you a chance to pick on me again.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0346par0357	Tell him, tell him.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0347par0358	Then don't let them insult you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0348par0359	Let's not make fun of it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0349par0361	Mr. President, as a principle, we're already not in favor of a polemic of opposition parties, but I'm just going to make a brief statement about peace. A man comes to him, and he says, "Shems has come. He brings this good news to you, and gives you his cardigan. They turn around, and they say: "Ya, this is a liar, why did you give him your cardigan?" He says: "I give my cardigan to the bearer of peace, but I am willing to give my neck and my head to the truth of peace." [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, we see peace as something beyond parties, we see political interests, but it's obvious that all of these arguments have come out of the budget because one party group is trying to overcome their regret over the past by attacking other groups with a loud voice. Dear friends, forgiveness is done in a low voice; there is no repentance by shouting. You may have regrets in your relationship with the ACK, or you may have regrets in your relationship with ▪.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0350par0366	Oh, it's heavy, it's heavy.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0349par0367	In the past, we have criticised the Ergenekon case, and we said, "Look, age is burning next to the skull, and people are being wrongly tried. You said: "Are you defending Ergenekon??" Now it has been declared that there is no organization called Ergenekon. If you regret what you've done, what you've done, please do it in a lower tone of voice and in a language of self-criticism, and do not criticize anyone else. So let's leave these polemics in the process together to find a cure for this disaster, this danger, this danger, the crisis in front of the country, and the abyss. These polemics, maybe, yes, may be a way of clapping, but they don't really benefit the country, anybody, any party. I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0351par0372	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0373	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0353par0374	What's up? Here.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0375	Mr. Mehmet Mush has moved on from where he left off during his speech and has made some very serious accusations against Mr. President and our group. I'd like to exercise my right to answer from the stand to 69.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0353par0376	Can't you just tell me where it is?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0377	No, that way, sir. To justice...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0353par0378	E, come on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0381	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, you know, first we take the word of bullying, we give the answer to what they say. After that answer, after a low tolerance capacity, they go out and try to distort things. Now, he says: "Don't always think of the bearded one as your grandfather. Let God not show you, I will not compare this man to my grandfather. It wasn't evil, it was a Rahmani beard. My grandfather had a beard.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0354par0383	Shame on you, shame on you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0355par0384	You're slandering me, slandering me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0385	But who do you think you are and how sympathetic you are, that's debatable.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0355par0386	My friend, you're slandering me, slandering me. He's not Al Qaeda.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0387	Oh, it's slander. Who's gonna decide that? The whole world waits, "Who will make the decision? ' Is it slander?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0356par0388	This isn't Al Qaeda.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0389	The United Nations Security Council decided in 2013...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0356par0390	Do you know who he is?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0357par0391	It's definitely slander. It's a lie.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0392	...he put the wise man on the list of terrorists and announced it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0357par0394	Lies, lies.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0395	Do you know who he is?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0396	Wait a minute, you're lying...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0397	I'm doing it like Haydar. Do you know who he is? I don't want to make you talk.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0398	Sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0399	Do you know who he is?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0400	Friends, the terroristism of Hikmetyar is a lie...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0401	Do you know who he is?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0359par0402	Mr. Ironbone...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0403	...The United Nations are lying...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0404	Do you know who he is? Don't slander, don't slander.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0352par0405	...the state of the Republic of Turkey has seized the property of Hekmetyar. Under it is the signature of Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0406	I won't make him talk. I'm doing what you're doing.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0360par0407	Go on, go on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0408	I don't approve, but I'm doing what you're doing.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0360par0409	Go on, go on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0410	You didn't make me talk, and I won't.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0361par0411	Look, look, listen, listen. If you're right, you'll apologize.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0362par0412	Mr. Zülfü...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0413	You didn't make me talk, and I won't.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0363par0414	I wish you could do like me. I wish you had as much diameter as I do, capacity.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0364par0415	Don't make me talk. Don't make me talk.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0358par0416	I won't make him talk either.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0364par0417	Come on. I'll talk to you again.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0365par0418	Mr. Zülfü, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0364par0419	You know where this is going. You're gonna sit down.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0366par0420	I won't make him talk either.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0364par0421	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0367par0422	Please calm down.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0364par0423	You're gonna sit down.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0368par0424	I won't make him talk either.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0364par0425	You're gonna sit down.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0368par0426	I won't make him talk either.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0364par0427	You're gonna sit down. [[Noises]] Mr. President, Hikmetyar...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0369par0430	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0370par0431	Yeah, look, you can't stop when part of what you do is done. Then you need to listen.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0369par0432	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0371par0433	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, friends, gentlemen know what's going to happen to them, they're afraid of him.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0370par0434	Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0372par0435	You don't know enough.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0371par0436	Look, this slander, the United Nations put it on the list of terrorists in 2015 with the signatures of Ya Tayyip Erdogan and all ministers, and Turkey seized this man's property, because he's a global terrorist.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0372par0438	You don't know enough. Don't slander me! Don't slander me!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0371par0439	Friends, he called the man a United Nations terrorist...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0372par0440	Don't slander me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0371par0441	...the president said that the terrorist...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0372par0442	Don't slander me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0371par0443	...all the ministers said that they were terrorists...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0372par0444	The U.N. ruled him out as a terrorist.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0371par0445	He's crying lies, lies, lies. Why? I guess he looked like his grandfather, his grandfather.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0372par0447	The United Nations took him off the list.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0371par0448	Mr. President, we'll continue to answer and lecture the defamation and bullying of the Justice and Development Party with documents, international documents. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0373par0451	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0374par0452	Mr. President, just for the record...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0373par0453	Yes, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0374par0454	Mr. President, look, Hikmetyar has taken the United Nations on a list of terrors for a period of time, and now, on April 30, 2017, he has taken them off the list of terrors that he has acted with...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0375par0455	I can't hear you. I can't hear you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0374par0456	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0376par0457	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0377par0458	Mr. Alekalioglu, deputy president of the group, please come in.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0376par0461	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, while our government is discussing these matters on behalf of our government, we have a little faith that the members of the group will continue to terrorize those who are acting on the basis of their own political vision. Even back in the 1990s, when our martyrs, which you claim to have changed, were fire-like in our three-man furnaces, my sons, my children, your fathers, your mothers and your fathers, were waiting at your homes, at your tables. We've changed, we've replaced the old Turkey. In the old Turkey you call it, reports were sent from helicopters and planes to the mountains that your children are waiting for you in your homes. Return home. There used to be a seriousness to running the government, and there was a seriousness to fighting, and those who ruled the state, they cared that terrorism would never get to people, no matter who they were dealing with. What happened to your heart is so black that when you say the Turkish state, the Turkish country, the Turkish nation, when you say the Turkish nation, the Turkish language, when you say the Turkish language when you say the Turkish language, the Turkish flag, when you say the Turkish flag. And yet, when did you get the urge to make a terrorist out of us? Why? So while we consider not calling all of our Kurdish brothers who voted for HDP (HDP) is serious, we consider every Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to be Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) to be Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) but to act on our state's discipline because we do not consider every person voting for HDP (HDP) to be Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to be PKK (PKK).
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0378par0463	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0376par0464	Guys, I'm begging you. WHAT is the desire to make a political Kurdishist out of a sentence that is stuck between the academic identity and the political identity of the good one?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0379par0466	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0376par0467	So it's not the government's responsibility to terrorize our country more these days when you hold it in your hands as a trust of government. So what do you get when you take out a political Kurdishist from a party that's received 5 million votes from us, who's been in politics for 25 years, and who's been standing in nationalist-multiper coordinates? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So friends -- we do -- I mean, sometimes, let's say, our language is a slip of the tongue, and even though you've done much worse than the slip of our tongue, please get rid of the desire to remove a PKKman from us to suppress your own faults. We accept -- and I mean what you just said -- we're sorry. It would never suit the individual spirit of this House or the person of the House, and we're sorry, but you owe us an apology. I mean, we're sorry, but you owe us an apology.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0379par0470	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0380par0471	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0379par0472	Guys, we have four friends in the system. I'll give you my word for a minute. Ravza Kavakcı Kan, please, I promise you an explanation from your position.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0381par0476	Mr. President, thank you very much. I salute the General Assembly. I've just been asked by the Deputy Director of the Good Party to explain to them, but I'd like to inform the entire General Assembly: Mr. President, we visit many countries. It's a central mandate, or we're visiting these countries as head of the inter-parliament unity group. Every place we go, we exchange information about the country's system. When we went to Germany, we visited both the national parliament and the federal parliament, where we received information from the authorities, and we told them about our system. If we go to England, perhaps the kingdom will not come. It's just that the news that came out -- which was ridiculous news -- I thought it wouldn't be taken seriously, and I thought it was an insult to our nation's intelligence, so frankly... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I was surprised that this came up, and I'm sorry. I'll buy it. The Germans laughed too, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0382par0483	You've made your statement, thank you. Mr. Destici, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0383par0485	Mr. President, the precious MPs... Actually, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak from the stand for two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0382par0487	Sir, your position, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0383par0488	Because there's teasing.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0382par0490	Here you are, sir, from your position.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0383par0492	Friends laughed. Don't tease me. Don't tease me. Our heroic army can't be seen as invaders.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0384par0494	Are you the commander?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0385par0495	Friends, please listen to the preacher. Please... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0386par0497	No one can do that under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If he is doing so, his place is not here, but in Kandil. He must be with PKK-based snakes. I'm making that very clear. Look, it can't be explained by democracy or freedom of faith. There's an example of a Herri Batasuna, you know. So he was shut down by the Spanish Supreme Court in 2003 because he didn't condemn the actions of the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0387par0500	You're out of time.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0386par0501	His application to the ECHR in 2009 was rejected, and only because... We will continue our struggle no matter what way.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0387par0503	Mayor, time's up.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0388par0504	That's where your bread comes from, and that's how you make your bread.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0389par0505	Shut up, shut up! Shut up!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0390par0506	The ECHR shut down because it didn't condemn terrorist acts because it didn't condemn terrorists. Therefore, there is no place for the PKK and HDP (HDP) in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0391par0507	Mayor, time's up.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0390par0508	But unfortunately, in Turkey, they are sitting in these seats today because democracy operates in a way that is very much above Europe.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0392par0509	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0391par0510	We were gonna ask your permission, weren't we? And we don't have to talk the same size as you do.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0390par0511	It's not enough to sit right here, and 92 trillion will get paid in 2019. Where they're going to spend this money is also seen and known by studies in the appointed municipalities.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0391par0512	We're here with the people's votes and approval.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0393par0513	Mr. President, if this continues, we'll...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0390par0514	So no one here can make the victory of our heroic army of Afrin look like an occupation. So we're proud of our heroic army.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0391par0515	Mayor, time's up, and this is not forever, so we don't understand.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0394par0516	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0395par0517	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0391par0518	Then give us that much time, and we'll talk.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0396par0519	And don't worry, Tel Abyad, Ayn al-Arab, Sincar and Kandil will follow the victory and the moon-star flag will be placed there.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0395par0520	Thank you, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0396par0521	And all of Turkey will be cleared of terrorists beyond our borders.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0397par0523	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0395par0524	Thank you, Mr. Destici. Mr. Mehdi Eker, I believe you have a statement to make. One moment, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0398par0529	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Turkkan has just made a statement in which my name has been mentioned. There are two wrongs here, and I'd like to inform the General Assembly on that. One is an organization called the representativeship of the PKK (PKK), which he calls the representative in England, which is an independent, independent civil society organization operating in the UK, Ireland, which is never the representative of the PKK (KKK).
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0399par0531	What does he do?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0398par0532	Of course, that organization probably tells what's necessary, lies, maybe even the legal way, that's one, I'll fix it because I don't go to an organization like that and attend their event there.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0400par0534	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0401par0535	No packing, just a minute, right?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0398par0536	Second: As vice president of Foreign Relations at the EC PARTI General Centre, I gave a speech in Turkey to explain why Turkey's thesis -- why the State of Emergency was declared in Turkey, what elements were taken care of in the fight against the PKK and what had been done.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0402par0537	Did you tell him about ISIS?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0398par0538	There is no hidden side to that talk; this talk was made within the framework of explaining the arguments of the Republic of Turkey, the rightness of the fight against terrorism by the Republic of Turkey. That's what it's all about. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0403par0541	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0404par0544	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were the words taken after my last speech. Dear friends, look, I have no intention of getting a terrorist out of anyone, nor have I used a terrorist statement to any congressman here. I've always known the courtesy of politics, and I think I'm in the frame of kindness of politics. Mr. President, what I'm saying here is... look, there's a saying going on in a conversation, and you're a political party in the General Assembly, and you're a group in Parliament in Turkey; the words, the statements that have been made, will be criticised, will be made, will be made, will be made public, that's a phrase that's been said on live television, that's my dedication, that's my criticism. What good will it do you to get us out of here? How can you call us terrorists? It's not right, Mr. President, it's a false statement. I told you from the beginning that I had no such intention, and I turned against you in my speech. I said, "I want to give you a warning." And I gave you a review. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Oh, you judge this criticism, you think it's something else, but I want you to know that I don't mean it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0405par0548	Thank you. Mr. Bulent Turan, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0406par0550	They work double-guns, Mr. President!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0407par0552	Mr. President, I've only been promised one thing to correct, as per our Group President's request. In the 80s -- we're much younger, children -- Afghanistan was invaded by the Russian communist regime; in all Turkey, there are anthems called "Hindikhyption Mountains." And constantly, the pioneers of Afghanistan's struggle for independence are visiting every party in Turkey, visiting every institution, trying to defend their country against the communist regime, in a sense, with the support of the state at the time. In this minor, Mr. Erdogan, who was then a youth leader, is meeting with the mujahideen of Afghanistan. These aren't hidden things. The idea of fixing it, Mr. President, is that Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has just stated that Hikmetyar has been put on the UN's list of terrors. There are two issues about that. One was when all the Mujahideen revolted against the communist regime during Afghanistan's war for independence, but in the later years, unfortunately, those mujahideen failed to pass the required test. Part of the fights at the time were listed as terror by the UN as the price of civil wars, except for the fight against total independence.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0408par0557	Yes, wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0407par0558	Mr. President, a period of time was taken by the UN, which is a short period, but right after that...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0409par0559	Before or after 17-25?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0407par0560	...was already removed from there on April 30, 2017. Right now, the party of Hikmetyar is a legal party in the government. Therefore, I feel that it is not the right opposition to approach each bearded person in the same way. I don't think it's helpful for anyone to have the same criticism here as the ISISist who considers the photos taken in Istanbul with bearded lungs.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0410par0561	You love them, you love them!
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0407par0562	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0411par0564	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0412par0565	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0411par0566	Here you are, Mr. Free Special.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0412par0568	Mr. President, we've come to a good point.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0411par0569	Let's finish it, shall we?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0412par0570	For one thing, he says the United Nations made that decision in 2013, but for some, he says. Mr. President, you'll remember best, as Minister of Transport, you have your signature on the Council of Ministers' decision dated September 30, 2013, and I'll be right back. The list of those who support terrorism in the United Nations and provide financing for al-Qaeda is included. In accordance with the UN's decision, we're confiscating assets if they're in Turkey. On the additive list is the name of Hikmetyar. I'm phosphorescent. I'm delivering it, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0413par0575	We responded to that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit04spe0414par0576	Yes, thank you. I'm taking a 30-minute break from the merger, and we'll start again at 10:35. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0414par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At Monday's 10/12/2018 meeting of the advisory council, the following proposals were approved by the General Assembly. Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu Free Special Justice and Development Party Group Republican People's Party Group Peoples' Democratic Party Group National Movement Party Group The proposal for the Central Management Law of 2019 and the 2017 Central Management Act of the Year, under Article 62 of the Groups and Internal Charter 62, has been suggested that the talks to be carried out in order to express their opinion on the basis of the 62nd amendment, 60 minutes in the 5th and 8th laps, 70 minutes each (which can be used by more than one speaker) will be offered by the speakers on the other tours, five minutes each at the end of the budget talks, and by the 62th article of the Interior Charter, in order to conduct their views. (This time can be used by more than one minute). I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We continue our talks from 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. The commission is in place. Now on behalf of himself, the group will speak in favour of the Deputy President and Mr. Özlem Rich. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0415par0035	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of myself regarding the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Act. I hereby salute you, Veterans Council. Of course, I'd like to personally thank the Plan and Budget Commission and all of our colleagues, our ministries, who have contributed to this work coming today. It is fundamental political texts that show how a country's financial resources will be obtained, which will be used by the political power that the country has authorized through elections, in which direction public power will be used throughout the country for a year, which will have an impact on the economic, social and political life of the community. In view of this framework, what's important is that the nation, who owns the original government resources on income and expense, has a say. Today, the approval of the budget by parliaments on behalf of the nation is recognized by the conditions of democracies, in other words, for which amount of revenue the executive body will receive and where it will spend its revenues. The budget, which is referred to as the right of the budget, has been called the right to the right of the budget, which has been sourced in the positive law from Magna Carta in 1215, and dates up to now; in summary, the right to the right to the right of law to collect and spend without permission. The first step in the use of budgetary rights by the nation in representative democracies is free elections. Because political parties who participate in the election offer voters a promise of how to use public resources. With their votes, voters are authorising the political party to use public resources in line with the policies it promises. In this sense, the authority given by the nation to a political party in the elections also means that it will, in fact, approve the implementation of budget politics for a period of time. This approval, in fact, is admissible at the will of the nation, along with the elections. Thus, the political government, which has taken power from the nation in the elections, budgets its commitments to voters ahead of the election, after the election, in fact, the concept of the budget is a political identity. In this context, we see budget laws and the budget law proposal that we're negotiating today as a legal tool for the use of budgetary rights. Technically, the budget law is also a statement of the implementation of the principle of the separation of peoples, which is considered the basis of the state of modern law. We find it much more meaningful that law enforcement is the first budget of the presidential government system, where the constitutional balance of authority and responsibility is placed on a solid basis, where the law is divided by precise lines. And if it is accepted in our Parliament, it will be the first budget of the new government system, and I wish it well for our country and for our nation. If we look at the budgets the EC PARTY has made so far, we see that it has made 16 budgets from 2003 to 2018, which is our 17th budget. In that sense, I think the budgets have a characteristic side. Perhaps if we put them in the bottom line, we will be able to see that the gap between income-consuming pens is reduced, the end of spending pens and the prioritization of the budget equality; in an approach to investment areas and resources transfering economic, social policies, and also to the social needs of these policies based on a holistic approach, and most importantly, in a budget based on benefits and cost analysis, which is far away from the populist understanding, not only on the present, but on the ones who feel responsible for the future. In this way, we have been able to see a budget understanding of the economy's small, large actors, especially investments, in all our budgets until now. As the EC PARTI Group, we also see that these principles that we have seen in the last 16 years of budget implementation continue in the budget offer of 2019. We're in a well-balanced approach to wasteful spending and savings. I'd like to point out here that the most basic indicator of responsibility based on the policy of drafting budgets for the EC PARTI is that the budget is generally accepted in terms of the preparation and auditing process, the legal regulations that bring international standards into our internal law, the implementation of all these regulations in the EC PARTI government. In this framework, the Court of Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018, followed by the adoption of Law No. 6085 in 2010 and the increased responsibility of public institutions and especially senior executives to account, the adoption of public financial management based on performance and strategy planning, and -- a title that I care most about -- has been carried out by the Court's jurisdiction under external control and the introduction of government's systematic failures by the Court on certain times. Highly valued lawmakers, the choices that a person makes when spending personal income in his personal life, the way he sees life and the way he sees it, in a sense, the budgets, as well as the use of laws and public resources, have a very important opinion on the way of governance, political preferences and ideas of political power. In this context, when we look at the budget of 2019, we see the budget's costs for public debt and the transfer costs -- because they are a very serious asset in the Treasury and Finance Ministry -- that the largest expenditure is then in the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services and Health. Three major ministries - education, health, and social policies. It's very, very important for us to get our children, our young, our women, our disabled, our patients, our elderly. I'd like to say that, perhaps, on the way here, we're all actually coming in with prepared conversations. But in the course of the day, we've heard a lot of things, more like a deep discussion, even a fight. So, I'd like to make a reminder of a few things that are particularly committed to women's affairs by remembering and keeping in mind those moments. The issue of women is a matter that the EC PARTY will never give up on. There were some very interesting headlines in today's talks. In some of these titles, there were statements that the AK PARTI had supported violence against the woman, that she had no room for her, that the state had supported violence... Yet, in all the policies of the EC PARTY, women have been given an incredible priority. In 2004, we highlighted that men and women had equal rights, especially by making a constitutional change. In 2010, we made an arrangement that the practice of women's favours would not be considered a violation of the principle of equality against men. When it's looked like this, I want to make it very clear that in our country, men and women in front of the law are always equal, but that doesn't prevent us from talking about gender justice in terms of roles in society. In doing so, we find that those who bring us this particular criticism have a lot of support. For example, I'd like to show you that we have girls who escape from the terrorist organization's camps and talk about themselves. They talk about how they were abused, how the babies who came along were forced to be destroyed as a result of these abuses were forced to be destroyed. I choose words carefully, I don't want to use them on purpose. They say the children who came into the world were sold in Europe. They say no privacy is respected. These kids are really kids; 13 years old, 14 years old. Because people don't become terrorists at 50. Terrorist organizations love children, but we see that they love their daughters more. They get them in trouble, they get them up on the mountain, maybe they make up a love story, and who knows where those kids are being abused by a lot of people.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0416par0048	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0415par0049	Mr. President, I'll wrap it up. When we look at it like this, you have to see the truth of the backyards to talk about the woman thing first.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0417par0051	You take care of your own backyard.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0415par0052	We are a party in Turkey that lifts bans on women, in every sense. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Turkey without ban is a Turkey that began with the EC PARTY, in every sense. Every single one of my friends here will bear witness to that. So, when you say, "AK PARTY," you need to see a leader who resists freedom, legal security for women, and every kind of injustice. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In fact, there's a lot more to be said about economic data, but ten minutes is a very short time. In this sense, all the work we've done so far, the increase of prosperity in Turkey, the spread of prosperity that has been increased, there's no need to go too far to see it in Turkey, it's enough to get out on the street, go around the streets, see how the lifestyle changes.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0417par0056	People are hungry, you're the only ones with prosperity, you're the only ones with glory, your rule.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0415par0057	Each of us will have our faith in the budget of 2019, which means that it will increase life in Turkey a whole new level. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0418par0060	Thank you, Mr. Rich. Mr. Jhangir Islam, you've entered the system, I've seen it; I'll evaluate your request after the speeches. Thank you. Dear MPs, now on behalf of the executive, Vice President Fuat Oktay. Here you are, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0419par0066	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you on behalf of myself and our President. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish that 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Act would be a blessing for our country and our nation. Our Treasury and Finance Minister made the technical presentation of the budget today. During the time set aside for the administration, I will first try to assess the budget in terms of the actions of the President's Cabinet. In addition, I will try again to respond to the issues mentioned under budget so far. We see budget talks as a means of exposing and accountability the vision of the government's executive body for the nation. In this regard, budget talks at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the site of national will, are historically important. The first budget of our new management system will also be inherited in the future, by contributing to the establishment of the procedures and the words applied in both the Commission and the General Assembly. Turkey has passed through the new management system to strengthen democracy, speed up decision-making and implementation mechanisms to serve our nation more effectively. We think that if our cabinet makes what we call a road map, the budget proposal, the better our valued lawmakers discuss, argue, and improve, the greater gains we're going to get. No doubt that any opinion expressed in both the Commission and the General Assembly is valuable, important to us. I sincerely thank the President of the Plan and Budget Commission and its valued members and all of our esteemed deputies who have contributed to the creation of our budget in 2019. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as it is known, Turkey has moved to a new system of governance with a constitutional amendment adopted by our nation during the 16 April vote. We will continue our journey by supporting this historic step with new reforms, which we have implemented in the June 24th presidential and parliamentary elections. 2023 are our goals, and again, the 2053 and 2071 visions entrusted to our young people by our President, our children, are an expression of our enthusiasm for our future, our hope. Those who don't have dreams don't have goals, and those who don't have goals don't have programs. Turkey has dreams and goals and programs for the future, praise be to God. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our 2019 budget, which we discussed, is the first leg of our three-year New Economic Programme, which has been announced by our Treasury and Finance Minister in recent months. The manipulative fluctuation we experienced recently didn't take us away from our targets, but rather, it led us to more tightly embrace our goals. As a country that has hosted the most important part of the world's largest investments for a long time, we are determined to maintain that title in the coming years. In matters of the future of our country and our nation, we can achieve these goals much easier if the political institution can act in unity and unity. The way to raise our country is not by law, by law, by law and by judgment, but by harmony with one another. Our new management system allows our nation to make choices on governance and legislation every five years, thus maintaining stability in fundamental policies. This is how we secure the stability and confidence that we long for most in our multi-party political lives has increased our responsibility to our nation. As an executive, we are committed to creating planned, programmed, efficient, fast and transparent inventions that will move our country further. As the President's Cabinet, we carried out a really busy study from election date to today. The projects our cabinet will conclude in the short term were announced by our President with the 100-day Executive Programme. The completion of the transition process and the determination of our ministries for the next five years were part of this 100-day program. We have completed the first 100 days largely, and we have prepared for the first 100 days. In the coming days, our president will share the first 100 days with our nation and the two hundred-day goals. We also know that our Parliament has carried out very important legislature studies. Our political parties are also preparing for the March 2019 local administration elections. This whole picture is an expression of Turkish democracy's operation and power. Our nation, July 15th, has demonstrated its determination to preserve the future of its country and its own at the cost of its own blood and its life, to preserve democracy. We too strive to be worthy of our nation by doing our best. And that's the understanding of our budget proposal, and we offer it to your approval. Now, we're going to make a general assessment of the global economy and the Turkish economy, and then we're going to talk briefly about the work of our ministries. I'll also be considering foreign policy developments that matter. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are now integrated into the global economy, making significant distances in the business of goods and services, as well as in the financial sector. This success makes it necessary for us to keep a closer eye on the developments in the global economy. Global trade has seen a loss of momentum in global economic activity in 2018, under the influence of protective policies. With tight financial conditions and geopolitical tensions, global growth forecasts have been upgraded in the lower direction this year. The global financial crisis in 2008 revealed its faith and need for comprehensive reform policies in many countries, but it is another risk that reform practices cannot be carried out at the desired speed and production indicators point at slowing down in many countries. Mr. President, we have seen once again that the macro foundations of Turkey's economy are solid, with all the progress we've had in the past few months. With effective coordination, in place, in time and in the right direction, the threats to our economy have been successfully eliminated, we've eliminated. The New Economic Programme (YEP), covering the period 2019-2021, was prepared in this exact understanding. With this program, we aim to reduce our vulnerability to a minimum and move our economy into the future more strongly. Thanks to the macroeconomic policies and structural reforms that we implemented during our AK PARTI administrations, we have given the Turkish economy overall stability, and by expanding our economy, we have upgraded our country to a major league. In our country with a young population, women are particularly involved in the labour force, as well as employment levels are constantly increasing because our government has an attitude that protects its employee, its worker. For the past few years, we have also implemented many measures under the leadership of our President to support the employment market against shocks against our country. In the year 2018, when global economic conditions became more difficult, as we predicted in the New Economic Programme, our economy entered the balancing process. The slowness of our growth in the short term, however, is consistent with our sustainable, balanced, and healthy growth goals, providing a growing economic recovery. Mr. President, we're determined to move our production and export structure from low-tech to middle-tech. As of 2017, our total production exports share of middle-field technological products reached 34.6 per cent. However, we are also aware that in order to become more competitive and larger players at the global level, high-tech products must be raised to much higher levels in addition value. Fighting inflation is one of our most important goals as part of rebalance. We are aware of the cost of living with high inflation. We have a firm stance in our fight to reduce inflation in terms of improving the investment climate and boosting our international competitiveness. We will continue to take every possible precaution based on this goal. One of the main tasks of the state in economics is to maintain and maintain balance between controlling and regulatory practices and market actors to ensure the efficient functioning of the free market economy. In order to ensure that, our government is firm in implementing the necessary measures. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we have paid a great deal in the past to compromise fiscal discipline. We will continue to maintain our firm position in this field so that we will never experience this experience again. We've made significant improvements in our public financial balances through our cautious financial policies, the importance of fiscal discipline, the structural reforms we've taken into existence, the decisive struggle we've waged to reduce unregisteredness. Thanks to successful and cautious finance policies during the EC PARTI administration, the GDP of interest has been severely reduced. The share of interest costs in the budget is 40 per cent before our powers, while we reduce it to 12.2 per cent in 2019. On the other hand, in 2002, about $86 of each $100 tax revenue will go to interest payments, while in 2019, only about $16 will go to interest payments. Mr. President, under the New Economy Programme, we will implement our budget in line with our goals of maintaining macroeconomic stability, maintaining fiscal discipline, improving current balance, reducing inflation, increasing employment and improving revenue distribution. One of the most important features of the budgets adopted by the EC PARTI authorities, as I've already said, has been to constantly increase the resources set aside for social benefits, education, health care, agricultural benefits, local administrations and investments that will reflect directly as services to our citizens while reducing interest from the budget. Mr. President, we aim to ensure that our valuable lawmakers are provided with our work in the field of welfare and services in need of social assistance and protection, and that our orphaned children will be given protective, preventive, educational services, and that our disabled citizens will benefit from all the services offered to the community. IN THE period of our EC PARTY, we have constantly observed the living standards of our employees' financial and social rights improvements and increased inflation in public officials' monthly and wages. We've achieved the world's example in fighting poverty. We became the country that reduced poverty rates in the world by 2015 to 1.58 per cent by lowering the rate of public population living at the rate of less than $30 per cent in 2002. We've tripled the GDP rate. In the last 16 years, we've done about 283 billion dollars' worth of social aid to our needy citizens. We took important steps to ensure equal opportunities for disabled individuals in education, health, and employment. From 2002 until the end of November 2018, we provided employment for 382,000 disabled citizens. We've always been at the side of martyrs, veterans, and veterans. So far, we've employed 24,139 people near martyrs, veterans and veterans. By strengthening the network of welfare and employment, we supported the employment of our women and young people. Between 2007-2017, our employment increased by 3m35,000 people. During this period, our country, which has increased women's employment by 63 per cent, has been ranked first among the OECD and 28 members of the European Union. (Applause from the EC PARTY) Turkey has been the country that has increased its overall employment between EU candidates and member states in 2007-2017, both numerically and proportionally. Mr. President, we've re-divided the highest share of our budget to 161 billion TL. As we have increased our resources for education during the EC PARTY administrations, the schooling rate has also increased. There have been significant decreases in the number of teachers and students per class. In the year of 2018-2019 education and teaching, we continue to study and teach at 68,471 schools, officially and privately, at all levels, with 1 million 126,851 teachers and 17 million 658,637 students. Our number of students per teacher is reduced to 16 in primary school and 12 in secondary school. In all the geographical areas of our country, teacher-full rates have been raised at a close rate. As of today, our number of universities has reached 207. Our next work will now focus on further upgrades of quality. Mr. President, we're also increasing housing and scholarship opportunities for our young people. Mr. Elvan, they've given us a detailed report on this. I'd like to repeat once again: In 2002, 75 cities and 57 districts were serving our students with the total number of 182,000 beds in 190 dormitories. Today, around 670,000 beds have been reached in 81 districts, 239 districts and 4 in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. In the investment and rental programme, our national capacity will reach 881k by the end of 2021. There are 181 dorm projects in the investment programme with 158,000 capacities. The scholarship, which is $470 a month in 2018, will be paid at $500 a month in 2019. In 2019, undergraduate students will receive $1,000 a month, and PhD students will receive 1,500 euro scholarships and loan payments. As of December 2018, our licensed athletes have been raised to 8 million 341,000, as a result of heavy work since 2003. Mr. President, we have increased our resources for health care as a power, and we have improved the quality of health care that we offer to our citizens, and we have made health care available to each and every one of our citizens. In our health care, we create programs focused on development, quality and sustainability in health care. The infant mortality rate and infant mortality rate, which is one of the developmental indexes in health, have been reduced rapidly due to the measures taken, while the expected life expectancy in childbirth has been increased from 72.5 to 78. In order to build functional and modern architectural health facilities and provide a high standard health care presentation for our citizens, we have co-operated with the community-private community and carried out urban hospitals projects. So far, we have opened city hospitals in Yozgat, Mersin, Isparta, Adana, Kayseri, Elazig, Eskişehir, and Manisa. Mr. President, we have done important work to strengthen the quality of our republic's legal state in every sense and to improve our democratic standards. In addition to the constitutional amendments, we have renewed all of our legislation, especially our basic laws. We have renewed important fundamental laws, including the Turkish Penal Code, in accordance with the needs of our country and the needs of the age, in accordance with the requirements of the democratic legal state. No one should have any doubt that we have a system of justice based on democratic values and respect for human rights. We have determined our vision in the field of justice as a reliable and accessible justice system. The fact that our justice system is moving forward requires constant change and development of the system. In 2002, we raised the number of courts, which were 3,581 in the judiciary, to 6,489 in 2018, to the number of courts that were 146 in the administrative court, to 195. With the operation of the district court and regional administrative courts, the Supreme Court and the State's workload has been reduced and the discrepancies have been resolved faster by a more effective trial. In addition, modern and answerable buildings were built instead of courthouses located in the basements. From 2002 to today, the construction of 253 service buildings has been completed. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have become one of our largest foreign exchange sectors in our tourism sector, as a result of our investments in the conservation and strengthening of our natural and cultural resources and service sector during our AK PARTI administrations. In the coming period, we aim to be able to benefit more effectively from our country's tourism potential by focusing on alternative tourist areas such as health tourism, winter tourism, conference and fair tourism. In 2019, we will increase the number of tourists last year -- some 44 million -- but our main goal will be to increase the number of tourists, as well as tourism revenues. In terms of increasing our market share in tourism and creating the most accurate perception for Turkey, our promotional activities play a very important role. In this direction, the restructuring of the Turkish brand will be at the center of our promotional activities in 2019. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with our vision of national technology, strong industry, we speed up structural transformation in production to strengthen our industry's power and increase competition, and we spread production reform in a strong and balanced way across the country. We're implementing four of our main strategies, including high-velocity production, industrial efficiency increases, digital transformation and regional development. In order to reduce imports of interim goods in our export industry, we are launching the Uca Indianization Program. Localization, technology production and branding will be the main axis of high-increment value transformation, while RD and innovation will be supported. To ensure that, we support everyone from individual entrepreneurial candidates to major corporations to RD and innovation. We support our COSGEB and SME in many areas for domestic and national industry. Through TÜBITAK, we continue to side with national and original technologies with many projects and support programmes for the private sector. Our work on the commercialisation of patents, brands and designs has been accelerated. Since 2011, we have ranked first in Europe with more than 120,000 applications per year. On the other hand, with more than 45,000 applications, we are second in design in Europe. The application for over 12,000 local inventions was reached when it was evaluated with the Useful Model. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have seen agriculture as one of the primary sectors since we came to power, and we have given strong support to agriculture. The amount of support for the farmer will reach 14.5 billion TL by the end of the year. In 2019, we increase our support by 10.7 per cent compared to this year to a total of 16.1 billion TL. We allocate $21.4 billion to agriculture, including agricultural loan subsidies, intervention purchases, and financing of agricultural KİCE. We're transferring $26.5 billion to the agricultural sector, including agricultural investment funds. As part of field-based supports, we support diesel, chemical fertilizer, organic agriculture and good agricultural practices, support for nut producers and small family enterprises, five per cent and below. We completely removed the VAT, which was taken from fertilizer and bait. We told our farmers, yes, half of the mazot is yours, half is ours. So far, we've provided $17.3 billion for diesel and fertilizer. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We support products that are strategically important and supply deficits for our country. We paid our farmers a total of $34 billion difference in 2003-2018, which is bonus support. As part of animal support, we have supported $28 billion from 2003 to today. Mr. President, we've given the local authorities more jobs and more responsibilities and more resources in order for local services to be presented in place, more efficient and quality. The total amount of funding from the 2019 budget to local governments has increased by 28.4 per cent from the previous year to about 94 billion dollars. We're building public gardens to make our cities a greener and more spacious habitat, to improve the quality of our cities' lives and environments, and to create identified cities. In the first hundred days, 33 people began working in the nation's garden. The five national gardens were completed as planned, and as you know, in November, we also opened Istanbul Kayaşehir, Başakşehir, Baruthane, Stripper and Hoşdere national gardens. With projects planned, our goal is to increase the amount of green per capita per capita in the first place by 10 per cent in Istanbul and 6 per cent in Ankara. Our work on the spread of the nation's gardens with 81 continues rapidly. In 2017, TİKİ gave the 2,092 families of martyrs and duty disability, and again in 2018 364 martyrs and the duty-designed family a non-interest mortgage. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've made significant progress in the energy sector in the time of AK PARTY power. In 2002, our power power force, which was 31,846 megawatts, increased by 177 per cent in the third quarter of 2018 to 88,347 megawatts. By the end of the year, the natural gas, which went to our five cities in 2002, will be delivered to the entire 81 counties and to more than 500 districts and cities. Turkey's acquisition terminal, starting with the Russian Federation, and continuing through the country to the border of neighbouring states, one of the Turkish Akım gas pipelines, each capable of carrying about 16 billion cubic metres of natural gas annually, has been completed and is scheduled to be operating at the end of 2019. We are conducting detailed seismic searches with our national ships for the discovery of hydrocarbon potential in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. After these seismic searches, we use the first multinational drilling ship to run deep and shallow sea drilling again on October 30, 2017. In addition to the conqueror, our second drilling ship will be included in our portfolio in early 2019. With these ships, we will follow an active strategy in the search for oil and natural gas by drilling separately in each of the Mediterranean and Black Sea. Dear President, we've spent about 537 billion dollars on transport, naval and telecommunications services from 2003 to the end of 2018. In our country, the number of interconnected cities has been increased from 6 to 76, from 6,101 km to 26,637 km; from 1,714 km to 2,842 km. The length of the tunnel has increased by nine stories and has increased from 50 kilometers to 463 kilometers. The rise in the standard of our roads has provided economic benefits that reach about 18 billion TL per year from the savings of fuel and labor. The high-speed line length in our country has reached 1,213 kilometers, and the number of passengers from these lines has reached about 44.1 million. In 16 years, the total maintenance and renovation of 10,982 kilometers of the 11.497km conventional line has been completed. The century-old dream of over 289 million passengers so far has been presented to our citizens as a mega-rail project. Turkey, located at the meeting point of the continents and bridges, including Asia, Europe and Africa, has been strengthened to become one of the most important lines in the world, with nearly 200 million passenger-accessed Istanbul Airport opened on 29 October 2018. In order to increase our country's activity in space and speed up the work in this field, we're setting up and operating the Turkish Space Agency. While supporting our trade with our major port projects in the marine area, the Canal Istanbul Project and I are opening the door to a major change in world sailing. Our number of shipyards has been increased from 37 to 78, to 6.86 billion TL, from 571, our Turkish-owned fleet of ships, to 1,511, our number of marinas, 62, our capacity to tie yachts from 8,500 to 18,545. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Turkey has gone to an important strategy change under our President's leadership in the fight against terrorism. Our fight against terrorist organizations has been transformed from incident-based operation to non-interruption operation, from defense to a new structure that we can describe as draining terror from its source. In this context, our struggle will not end until the end of terror. In 2018, 6,763 operations were carried out in the countryside to build a city of 87,699 in the so-called housing and base areas, while PKK-KCK in the city centers. In 2018, 352 terrorists surrendered. Besides, in 2018, 152 terrorists were able to meet their families and surrender through persuasion. The terrorist group's high-level casualties have been increased, 13 in 2018 have been neutralized by 104 so-called high-level terrorists, including 13 in the category of red. 2,648 people have been taken into custody and 854 others have been arrested in 2018 as part of 1,206 operations against the DEA terrorist organization that has been unable to act in our country since the beginning of 2017. The most critical of terrorist attacks is, of course, a bloody coup attempt by traitors from the terrorist organization who brutally attacked their own state and people with aircraft, tanks and weapons given to the Turkish Armed Forces inventory to protect their country on July 15th. In 21,893 operations this year, 47,778 people have been taken into custody and 9.140 others have been arrested. Mr. President, in order to eliminate the threat of the DEA, to ensure border security, to help Syrian immigrants return to their homes, and to prevent civilians in the region from being harmed by terrorism, the Free Syrian Army, supported by Turkish Armed Forces, was launched on August 24, 2016, and Operation Fırat Shield was completed on 29 March 2017. Operation Firat Shield was launched on January 20, 20, 20, 2018, to ensure the stability and security of both the borders of our country and the area of Afrin, to neutralize terrorists in the region, and to free the people of the region from the oppression and persecution of terrorists, and to neutralize more than 4,500 people of the PKK, PYD, YPG, and DEASK. On the other hand, the Astana Covenant has established 12 observation points in the area of Idlib to reduce tensions in order to monitor ceasefire violations, and construction activities of these observation points continue. As it is known, successful talks were held in Tehran, Sochi, and finally the Four Summit took place in Istanbul in September 2018, in order to reduce tension and prevent military intervention in Idlib. The application process of 635,392 of our citizens has been completed as part of the Bedelli military service, and the basic training of 67,591 has ended. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're working very hard to develop the Turkish defence industry. When we took office in 2002, we increased our independence in the field of defence industry by raising the domestic and nationality rate of 15 per cent to 65 per cent. And we're not done with it, we're not done with it, we're determined to go a lot higher than that. Our national and domestic products used in operations and counterterrorism operations in Syria are also an indicator of this independence. The exports of products designed and produced by our defense industry have also begun. We also sincerely believe that this will contribute to the development of high-tech and added products in our country. The exports of products designed and produced by our defence industry, which prove itself in the field -- as I have just expressed -- are being done and will continue to be done. Attack helicopters, Porcupines, Cobra II, Dragon Yalçin armor, submarine rescue, submarine amphibians and rescue, backup ships, armed and unarmed drones and SIHA (s) have been handed over to our security forces. The seismic and scientific research ship was handed over to Oruç Reis MTA. The tests of Bora, HESAR-A and HESAR-O missiles were successfully carried out. Mr. President, our country has also conducted humanitarian intervention and aid efforts to help people affected by disasters and emergencies, such as earthquakes, floods, droughts, famines, fires, fires, hurricanes and domestic disturbances, between 2009 and 18 continents, and 54 countries. About 2 billion US dollars have been spent in total for Turkey's international civil protection and humanitarian activities as part of these studies. According to the Global Humanitarian Aid Report 2018, Turkey was the most humanitarian aid country in 2017 with humanitarian aid of $8 billion of American dollars outside the country and the border. Turkey has been a country that has gained appreciation both in its region and in the world with its humanitarian foreign policy for the past 16 years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In particular, the world is greater than five. With its determination, our criticism of the distortions of the global system over the structure of the United Nations Security Council has echoed worldwide. Our honorable stand against the persecutions of our Palestinian brothers and attacks on Jerusalem's privacy, symbolised by the Davos meeting, also put our country in a different position. In the Syrian and Iraqi crisis, Turkey opened its door to all the oppressed and victims, regardless of any distinction, especially the Western countries. The total number of foreigners in our country has reached 4.7 million. 3.6 million of these are Syrian people whose love is temporarily protected, in their status. In recent weeks, images of various European cities, especially Paris, have also revealed the contradictions and hypocrisy of the West. Turkey is on its way to becoming the role model of the future, with the geography of the heart far beyond its physical limits. We have proved to the world by our operations in Syria that the steps to meet security concerns can also be taken by human sensitivities. From now on, we will continue to implement human-oriented policies in our region and in the world, which our ancestors, our history, our civilization, have pointed to us. In the case of Jamal Spooner, a journalist who was brutally murdered at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in early October, we took the last example of law and morality. Turkey's primitive stance on this subject has been appreciated by the world and prevented the cover-up of the murder. I'd like to rephrase here that we're not going to let this go until all the criminals are identified and brought to trial until we've carried out the order. The Syrian issue continues to remain on our agenda as the most vital foreign policy for the future of our country. As the state of Turkey and its nation, we are also proud to have successfully passed the human test by opening our hearts to the oppressed and the victims. Of course, the return of asylum seekers in our country is possible only if Syria regains peace, trust, and stability. Sadly, when we look at countries operating in Syria, which have not yet achieved their own internal integrity, we see that the countries outside of us have no such intention. Using terrorist organizations placed right next to our borders, the efforts of the Syrian crisis to export to our country have forced us to actually exist in the field. Turkey has defeated the DEAS in Operation Firat Shield, and has broken the PYD game in Operation Olive Dare. Thanks to the agreement we arrived with Russia in Idlib, which was supported by Iran, we were able to prevent a massive humanitarian crisis. Now, our agenda is to tear apart the corridor of terror that is being created east of Fırat. We're pushing the diplomatic routes to the end to resolve this matter. But the way these roads have turned into a diversionary tactic will force us, as our President would say, to cut our own belly once again. And we've made all the arrangements for that. On the other hand, we are making every effort to change the political solution of the talks launched in Astana, after the Geneva process was in a deadlock. I would like to say once again that the permanent solution to the Syrian issue is only possible with a new constitution and democratic elections that embrace all sections. Iraq is going through a critical phase because of sectarian fights, political disputes, and the intervention of various foreign forces. We're making all kinds of contributions to a solution to the territorial integrity and political unity of this country, and we're going to keep giving. Every development in Iraq, where we have deep historical ties and have very important cultural and commercial relations, is important to us. In the same way, we are conducting very important work in cooperation with the Iraqi government on the removal of northern Iraq from the separatist terrorist organization. Turkey is unable to be insensitive and reactive to any development in Iraq and Syria, which extends all across the southern borders. Every incident in Iraq and Syria is considered a matter of state and nation. With that understanding, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not, we did not. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, like our south, there's been a difficult process in geography. The tension between Russia and Ukraine has been a risk to the region. Turkey did not recognise Crimea's nature by Russia, and will not recognise it. We do not approve of other attacks on Ukrainian territorial integrity, sovereignty, and stability. We do every chance we get from Mr. President to his side in order to resolve the problems in the north of the Black Sea through peaceful means. Of course, Turkey's relations with Russia have a vastness and depth far beyond the developments in the Black Sea. In our achievements in Syria, the joint understanding union we have provided with Russia has been of great help. Again, we have reached a very good point with Russia on strategic energy projects for our country, particularly Akkuyu and Turkakım. We've come a long way in defense projects like S-400. We believe that developing our relations with Russia, which is our volume of over $20 billion a year, is in the best interest of both our country and our region. Turkey-American relations have been through a turbulent period recently. In fact, America has been one of our most important allies for many years.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0420par0146	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0419par0147	However, recently, with the United States, we have seen different approaches that have deepened, particularly in the case of the PYD and ▪ terrorist organisations. The problems we face under the sanctions of America are another problem in our relationships. As Turkey, we expect America to act in harmony with the spirit of alliance in all areas. We want to see an America that respects and supports our country's struggle with terrorist organizations. Not supporting Israel's unlawful and immoral practices in Palestine and Jerusalem, but an American who opposes it will undoubtedly contribute more to solving problems in our region. If these are provided, America can continue to be the trusted partner it once was. It is also not right for Turkey to be perceived as a position against other countries by its policies in line with its own goals and interests. Another ancient issue of our foreign policy is the sharing of hydrocarbon resources in Cyprus, the Aegean, and the recently climbing East Mediterranean Mediterranean. I would like to point out once again that Turkey will not make the slightest concession to its interests in neither Cyprus nor Aegean, nor in the issue of hydrocarbon resources in the eastern Mediterranean. (Applause from the EC PARTY) The actions that Greece and the Greek Cypriots have been pampered by the European Union have tried to take against our country and the Turkish Cypriots will certainly and certainly not be tolerated. (EC PARTY) In addition to our diplomatic efforts, we show our determination in this matter with our military strength and energy policies, and we will continue to show absolutely and with the same determination. Negotiations under the protection of the United Nations for the establishment of a comprehensive solution in Cyprus have been under way for half a century. The point is that the Greek Cypriot side does not want to form a partnership and share political power with Turkish Cypriots on the basis of political equality. As long as the Greek Cypriots' mentality does not change, it will not be possible for the talks to come to fruition and to establish a new partnership on the island. Once again, I would like to emphasize that we wish to continue our relations with all countries in this framework, based on the winning-win basis. Mr. President, if I may, I'd like to answer a few questions. Since we're running out of time...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0421par0153	Pick it up in two minutes, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0419par0154	I will, sir, I just want to answer a few more questions. There was one thing, about the number of shoppers that went bankrupt, it was said to be over 72,000 people. According to data from the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, 1,235 companies closed in October, but 7.160 new companies were established. The number of companies founded online in October increased by 5.5 per cent. In January and October, 72,798 companies were established while 10,295 companies closed. So we see a 26.3 percent increase in net company statistics during this period. There was another question or question, which was again in the form of Law 5488, that the source for agricultural support in Law 5488 would be no less than 1 percent of the non-national population. According to the OECD (OECD) Agricultural Policy Watch and Evaluation Report 2018), the GDP of total agricultural support was 1.9 per cent in the estimated year 2017. There was another question or criticism, about the fact that women don't get cut in the budget. As of 2016, information on the budget for women's policies is included in the central management budget law bill, and information on 2019 can be obtained from the 183th and 185th pages of the budget. In total, about 658m euros were transferred from the budget of 2019 for policies against women.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0422par0159	Your last words, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0419par0160	Despite what he said, he brought forgiveness in the last four months. There was another question in the form of a statement. Here is the decision to continue to use the existing law, provided the debtors who have applied to Act 7143, but violated the configuration by the end of January 2019, with a clause added to the proposal during their talks on amendments to some laws and NGOs. So it's not a new arrangement, it's an extension of the payment period. In other words, 55 fiscal amnesty laws have been issued from the republic's declaration today. During the time of our governments, there were a total of six laws of organization that concerned every part of society...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0422par0162	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0419par0163	With these thoughts, once again, I wish that the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Offer and the 2017 Central Management Computation Computation Act would be good for our country, for our nation. I sincerely thank all of our members, especially the Plan and Budget Commission, who have contributed to the drafting of our budget in 2019, with opinions and criticism.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0423par0165	Mr. President, you can pull strings with the Vice President, that's normal. I think you should open it.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0419par0166	I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0424par0168	Yes, thank you. You've made your explanations quite well.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0425par0169	The president must be impartial.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0426par0170	You can't say good, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0424par0171	Sir, just because there's no teasing...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0426par0172	But you can't call it good, you don't have the right to comment according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0424par0173	Yeah, thanks. Yeah, well, we're just trying to lighten the mood.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0427par0174	The air is already soft.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0424par0175	Yes, dear friends, in the name of the deceased, Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0428par0179	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, the last speech of the evening. Before I begin speaking, I would like to send greetings to all of my friends who are still in prisons, and of course I salute Dear Leyla Güven, who is on the 33rd day of the hunger strike here today. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Congress has made it a reality, where its own member opens and closes budget talks while he's in prison. Last term, the Constitution was changed, budgets were made, a lot of changes were made, but MPs were not discussed in prison. Yes, indeed here, with great shame, with great insensitiveness and disrespect for the will of the people, in fact, Parliament is being held hostage while parliament is being employed. Yes, on this occasion, I tell all lawmakers, regardless of the party's distinction: 1 member of this Parliament, Leyla Güven, is now in Diyarbakır E Type Prison and on the 33th day of the hunger strike against illegality, injustice, and imprisonment against humanity. The whole world has heard it, and I'm telling you once again, hear it from my mouth. Yeah, a lot's been said about women's rights today. I'll show you two pictures. We're having a talk here today from the government's desks, while our Diyarbakır province building has been raided, with 300 police officers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please look at these photos. 300 cops and 80-year-old mothers were dragged to the ground. Mothers in tulbents were taken into custody without even being allowed to wear their slippers or shoes, mothers having difficulty walking. What was it really? Don't let the mothers cry in the Billboards. What about today's funeral of Mother Hatun, the stay of Mother Taybet in the streets for a week and the dragging of these mothers, only peace-seeking mothers? Yes, it's easy to be an apostle of democracy from here, but really, these images didn't come from space, they came from Diyarbakir, and now our Batman county building is surrounded. What's the reason? They're on a hunger strike. A hunger strike is not a crime anywhere in the world, nor is any criminal law considered a crime. It's the most innocent, legitimate method in the world. People, people are putting their bodies to hunger for a demand. The hunger strike has nothing to do with public order, criminal and criminal relations. Now, those who really do this to our mothers in white tulbents who have devoted their lives to peace will pay for it, and I assure you, with our mothers' whining, you have received the most powerful answer today. Remember, peace will come to this land with the insistence, demands, and resistance of our mothers. I hereby condemn this raid, and I would like to declare this government's injustice, this desperation to all of Turkey. You can't see it in A News, you can't see it on other channels, you can't see your mother drifting on the floor because the news on the lie continues to put all Turkey to sleep. Yeah, we're talking about the budget today. Let me start by saying that this budget is a war budget. This budget is an unfair and unconscionable budget. Our co-Chairs have made it very clear. It lacks the measure of conscience and justice because we're dealing with a budget that aims to establish capital instead of laborers, gender equality, masculinity instead of science, children, communities instead of youth, instead of naturals, and war instead of peace. All of the talks have actually made it very clear. Yes, indeed, there's a new situation here -- not very new, but this year -- the ruling authorities have come forward -- and I won't say walking without hesitation, but here by the AKP Group -- telling the false and false as if it were truth and truth, as if it were true and true. I don't know what to call it, but a world of lies has been created with the wrong concepts, the non-consequential concepts. I mean, it's a world of lies that they almost believe what you're telling them. Over and over again, they're trying to tell us a different story about what we've been through. Now, what is it, really? We watch news every day from the world of lies. While we're listening here, we say, "Ya, this is black." You're trying to get us to say black is white. That's not possible. In this regard, we are treated as if there is no truth that we tell, that everyone repeats the same lie, that every channel tells everything. Now, the two ministries have merged, the woman's name has been removed, the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. It says in the Budget Commission, it's been raised to $43.4 billion. What is this, really? The confession of poverty. So let me tell you firsthand: for once, by this power, the people have been reduced, they are being poorened, and we are helping. He says, "We are helping." It's like a blessing. Again, about the children, the Minister says: "The girls' schooling rate has increased." And we have this data. Of course, there's no further rates, because there's a chance that we can shut down the house and grow the floor of a different policy in this way. Again, the Minister made another grave confession in the Commission, saying: "We surveyed 900.000 employers. What did you do to the employer, and what did you do to the worker? Did you poll the worker? There's no polling the workers who are taking on this country's great burden. The Minister of Environment and Urbanism is talking about the status areas. Mr. Ministers, how's Hasankeyf? I assure you, even the Mongolian army couldn't have destroyed it so much. Now the court has decided to stop talking about Hasankeyf. What about the date you moved from there, the time you damaged it with dynamite? You have blocked your ears to what has been said about Hasankeyf. Again, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Health says we're fighting drugs. Let's go with you to a middle school in civilian clothes. The age of drug use is down to middle school, elementary school. That's what citizens tell us every day. There are 105 beds in CEMAMAM now. These are the facts. We're dealing with another sexist budget. Aside from the fact that there's a public-sex-sensitive budget, men have already made the budget. I told you that at the Budget Commission. Yes, three members of the Plan and Budget Commission. I witnessed it at the Home Office. There was only one female friend, sitting in the back, in the corner. Now, in a man's budget, there's no natural sensitivity to gender, to child benefit, and that's not what's happening in the next budget. It determines the origin of the figure. We call it the lawyers. Yeah, shape is important. Women need to be there to get close to a woman's sensibility. I can't give out the other numbers because I don't have time. Women's rights were mentioned. We've closed 48 women's centers in 95 municipalities. Our women's centers for social, economic, psychological counseling women have been closed by trustees, and today we're told: "Don't say anything about women's rights." Yeah, people are hungry, people are unemployed, people are poor, but we're budgeting here. Who are we doing this to? We're doing it to a bunch of privileged people, actually. We certainly can't discuss a budget in favor of the citizen here. On the other hand, there is one thing I can't do without referring to the KHK. You've created an endless unemployment incident. You're going to be unemployed for the rest of your life. You're dragging death away. We called it social death. Yes, hundreds of thousands of people are now facing social death with their families, and you're doing this in the name of democracy, in the name of progress. There's really a lot to say in the budget. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm putting it all together, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0429par0199	Yes, please finish your words. That's what we said at the Plan Budget Commission when our language turned. We're not going to vote for this unconscionable and unfair war budget, the budget against the public, against the public, of course. And last but not least, you don't say Demirtaş more than we do. But let's just say that we know about your wound in the words you said to Mr. Pervin Buldan. And to our former Co-Chair Demirtaş. You can't keep up with them. You can't do politics like them. Demirtaş will continue to be your nightmare. He's thrown 14 tweets today. Please read those tweets, and they'll be in your dreams again. Whatever you have done with Demirtaş, you have not been able to take it out of the people's hearts. You have not weakened HDP. That's what's wrong with you, and it's still gonna be a problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0430par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0429par0205	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0430par0206	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Beştaş said that you, you, in that context, did not create situations in which the military of Mongols didn't do it. He also gave severe criticism in the manner of ignoring drugs. Allow me to answer from the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0431par0207	I didn't give you a name, Mayor. I said don't make it work.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0432par0208	He told me to make it work, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0433par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0434par0210	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0433par0211	You can't promise this to Mr. Bostancı, according to Article 69 of the Civil Code. The reason for this request is that you can promise the government according to Article 69 of the Civil Code. I'll leave you to your appreciation for reevaluating the Civil Code on this matter.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0435par0212	Mr. President, we're talking about the budget. Over and over again, they made a statement in the debates within the scope of the budget.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0433par0213	Sir, it could be, it's not your budget, it's your budget. You're rejecting the new system. The new system doesn't respond.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0436par0214	Tell me your meaning before you dare to bully me.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0433par0216	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0437par0219	Mr. President, dear friends, we have heard Mr. Beştaş. He talked about the headscarfed mothers, about the abuses they suffered by the police, about being with the mothers. Mr. Beştaş, if you were really with the mothers, if you were speaking for morality and conscience, you would speak for the mothers who have been performing in Diyarbakır Square for months and demanding their children on the mountain, but you didn't. Those women, they were also Tulbents, they were victims. Moreover, they asked for their children, whom you sometimes pretended to be sensitive. They say there's a difference between a moral and a conscience and a moral and a conscience, your difference. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, he mentioned drug trafficking, kids using drugs in front of schools. Of course, it's the police's job to beat the crap out of them, to do what's necessary under the law. Who's dealing drugs, guys? Who's dealing drugs? PKK's doing it, PKK. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Criticize the source. Drug trafficking and arms are each other's brothers. And their father is terror. Please, object to this; you're not objecting. You don't see what's done in Hasankeyf, where there's an app that lifts up huge buildings with all the means of technique and takes possession of mankind's legacy, but instead of seeing them, you're talking about the Mongolian army.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0438par0224	Mr. Botanci, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0439par0225	I'm a Batman MP. I know very well what happened in Hasankeyf, and you destroy all the history of all the peoples.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0437par0226	If you knew what the Mongolian army has done in history, you wouldn't speak of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0440par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0441par0230	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0440par0231	Mr. Bostanci said I posed a conscientious and moral pose directly for myself. There's a lot of bullying going on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0441par0232	Here you go. Let's not afford another tease, please. We've started at ten. We're at eleven, according to him.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0440par0235	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I do not pose morally and conscientiously. Neither I nor any member of law enforcement at my party have been in every aspect of his life with an immoral and unconscionable attitude. If you have a claim to the contrary, we can face it, but I would like to invite you to consider the matter that I've explained with the concepts of the world of lies. About the mothers. We don't drag some mothers down on the floor and make others the crown for show. I just want to say that no matter where she sits, we're definitely there as mothers for all the mothers.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0442par0237	Are you with the mothers of martyr soldiers?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0440par0238	While we oppose the war, we stand for the same thing for all mothers while we oppose this death, this death policy. We don't want a mother in Tripoli to cry or a young Diyarbakir boy on the mountain. We don't discriminate between deaths, we don't discriminate between tears. The mothers stood behind the process from Edirne to Hakkari, but in your policies, the mothers continue to cry today in Mardin and today in İzmir. I think it's the power that has the last say in mothers not to cry, and don't use it because with your war policy, death everywhere, lives continue to fall to the ground. These mothers advocated peace, wanted peace.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0443par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0444par0241	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0443par0242	It is the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) that makes mothers cry all over this country and raises mourning.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0445par0244	What do you call your mothers on Saturday?
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0446par0245	Saturday Mothers...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0443par0246	If you say "moms don't cry," and you're going to object to the source, not a moral, conscientious pose...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0445par0247	And it is the government that drags their mothers on the earth on the Sabbath.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0443par0248	You're going to object to the real perpetrator, to the center, to the center of terror.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0447par0250	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0448par0251	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0447par0252	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0449par0253	What is it, Mr. President? Let's move on.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0448par0254	Mr. President, just for the record. He said the same thing over and over again, but I'm cutting to the chase. I'd like to remind their mothers that the Minister of Interior has lost his children on Saturday. I'd like to remind you again that mothers are dragged to the ground in Galatasaray Square. I'd like to remind you that the same mothers were welcomed by the President and then, after that, now the mothers were excluded. The whole world sees who's hostile to mothers.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0447par0255	Thank you. Mr. Nazır Jhangir Islam, here's a brief statement from your position.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0450par0259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wish you the best of budget negotiations. There will be about a hundred hours of talk here for twelve days, about six thousand minutes, but for political parties and our two independent friends who don't have a group, which is a total of eight people, we're going to go to the audience as we come, and we're going to throw it all in. Please invite us to the first consultation meeting of your presidency, and we expect support from all political party groups to resolve this at least at the present level, but permanently in the long term. Thank you very much, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-10sit05spe0451par0262	Thank you. Dear friends, so the talks on the entire budget are complete. Now, I'm going to vote for the transfer of 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal to the provisions of the 2017 Central Management Computation Act. I submit to your votes that the provisions of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal should be passed: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the Articles of the 2017 Central Management Final Account Act shall be passed: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. So it was agreed that the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Bill would be passed on to Articles of the Computation Act. I now read the first article of the proposal and bill, respectively: 2019 ACTIVITY REPUBLICATION Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (I) is a total of 949,025,615,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget. B) (III) private budgetary administrations have 73,771,848,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) has 6,536.982,000 Turkish liras for regulator and auditory institutions on the ruler. The grant is granted. DIVORCE PRODUCTION OF THE CENTER OF 2017 MADDE 1- (1) Adds to the Law on Financial Management and Control, dated 16/12/2016 and the 2017 Central Management Budget Law on 6767 and dated 10/12/2003 and 5018; 634,176,488,900 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (II) private budgetary administrations include 79,433,539.000 Turkish liras, C) (III) The Turkish Lira of 4,216,853. The grant is granted. (2) The central administration of 2017, which has been added over the year by the power vested in by the Laws, has been added to Law 5018, as shown on the final account expense sheets in 2017; A) (I) The budget costs of public administrations under the general budget of 659,558,969,447,78 Turkish liras, B) (II) The budget costs of private budgetary administrations are 99,655,039,838,81 Turkish liras, The budget costs of regulator and auditory institutions on C) (III) are 3,941,504,800,71 Turkish liras, It's done as a matter of fact. (3) The central management net budget costs 678,269,192.686,76 Turkish Lira. Talks on the central management budget of 2019 and its final accounts in 2017 will continue tomorrow's merger -- today's -- in which the public administrations are covered. Under the decision taken, it is now 11 o'clock on Tuesday (December 11th) to discuss the budget and final accounts of public administrations. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. Thank you.
