tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, we are the students of Nevşehir Martyr Demet Sezen Girl Anadolu Imam Hatip High School. I welcome our young men, and I ask God's mercy on our martyr. [[Applause]] Welcome. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mehmet Erdoğan, a member of parliament who wants to talk about police issues as part of Police Week. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise due to the 173th anniversary of the Turkish police force. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation and the holy Turkish nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens with respect and conversation. At the beginning of my speech, 51 heroes who were killed in the traitorous coup attempt of the Lake Chief Special Ops Department head, especially to protect the homeland of our community, where they have given their lives to preserve the peace and security of our community, and who have written heroics in the fight against terrorism. As for our heroic veterans, I wish them a good and happy life for the rest of their lives. I wish God's mercy on our officers, who have completed their mission with honor and have retired and have received the mercy of God today, and a good life for the survivors. On the other hand, in this difficult time of our country, I offer my greetings, respect, and talks to the honored members of our heroic Turkish Security Agency, who are in the country and in charge of their duties abroad and in honor of serving the country and the nation with love. May Allah be their protector and theirs. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in the critical days of our country, trust the friend with his work, fear the enemy, it is clear that some of the problems of our law enforcement officers must now be resolved. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to share with you our findings regarding some of these chronical problems. Our police have the greatest expectation of resolving 3600 additional indicator problems. As we consider this problem, we need to consider that our police, like other public officials, were forced to retire at 55, not at 65. A 55-year-old retired police officer, given the usual flow of life, is either moving on with his children's education or retiring during a difficult time for his children to marry or start a business, with a very low pension. It is not acceptable for our officers, who have served honorably for the peace of the Turkish nation all their life, to be forced to return to their retirement to seek food and work and work. It is also evident that the 100 TL representation compensation given to our police officers, who have performed their duties honorably and have retired, has been stable for many years. Again, this year, our cops still haven't been paid their terrorist compensations, which should be paid without delay. He is now a general commander of the General Command of the Gendarme and the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, the difference between police personnel and police personnel must be paid equally for the equal work. In transfers and promotions, a driver's license must be processed according to merit and severance criteria. It's true that after the July 15th attempted treasonous coup attempt, the cleanup of the police force and, therefore, attempt to cover the police deficit with over-the-normal purchases, we have nothing to say, but in the long run, it is necessary to begin work without delay in resolving the police and police's development system to shape tomorrows. The current situation, although acceptable in the short term, is not sustainable in the long term. A license for police purchases should be reserved for high school graduates as well as for pre-graduate graduates, while some of our police officers should be allowed to take office at a younger age. Mr. President, our support and stance on the fight against terrorism as the National Movement Party is known to everyone. These words are not criticism; they are suggestions for the more efficient and healthy continuation of this process. Our goal is to strengthen the Turkish police force, which is an exceptional organization, further in accordance with Turkey's needs. After July 15th, there was serious damage to the police's intelligence units in particular. This gap must be repaired in a very short time. Our police department did a serious cleaning before and after July 15th, but the number of police personnel suspended during the process is substantial. Decisions regarding what is being held in these open areas must be concluded with maximum caution, so that there will be no scraps left in the Security Service. Another part of our police department is our chief of police waiting for their problems to be resolved. The Police Department is a bleeding wound within the Police Department. Are these people supervisors or officers? One day they'll be used as officers, one day they'll be in trouble for both of them and the office. We also believe that some of the issues related to our police's second sing assignment need to be reconsidered.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0003par0029	Here, I'll give you an additional minute, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0002par0030	Given the age of our officers on the second tour, the education of their children, the fact that their second song assignments are a little shorter may be a solution to the removal of their victims. Given the need for personnel, we think that the first song should be extended a little bit and that the problem should be resolved. We all know problems with the hours of our police officers. If the working hours cannot be fixed at the moment when the needs are taken care of, then the working conditions of our police must be corrected and an additional overtime arrangement that can be paid for their efforts in terms of motivation must be made. The Turkish police, who put their lives on the line for the peace and security of the Turkish nation, are celebrating the 173th anniversary of our organization's establishment, greeting all of our policemen who are doing their jobs at the expense of their lives with respect and conversation, and I wish them success, health and happiness. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0004par0035	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mersin MP Serdal Welcuoğlu who wants to talk about the problems of the muhtars. Here you go, Mr. Wellercuoglu.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0005par0040	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on behalf of the Republican People's Party. On this occasion, I salute all of you with love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Turkey has a total of 50,292 Mukhtars. The number of women chieftains across Turkey is very low, a total of 674 women are head of staff, and the proportion is 1.2 per cent. In Mersin, we met one-on-one with 807 chiefs with different political views. I'd like to share with you the problems we've detected. All 807 chieftains across Mersin are women. Our mayors demand more women-oriented policies to increase the number of women head of the local elections. Our Mukhtars also expressed special and local problems, as they expressed their concerns about Turkey's situation, its problems, the future. Along with the Metropolitan Law, most of the villages have gained neighborhood status in urban municipalities. The transformation of villages into neighborhoods has a social and economically different way of life, often based on agriculture and animalism, has a negative effect on villages and peasants. Meralar has been transferred to municipalities under the Metropolitan Law. The price of electricity and water in villages will be even higher according to the Metropolitan Law. Especially with the increase in water money, the situation that is already bad will worsen by the farmers who provide for their livelihood from agriculture and livestock. At the point of the solution to problems, the required service flow from municipalities has not been provided. In this context, the village in the Metropolitan Law demands that the transformation of its corporate personality into the neighborhood be changed or reorganised by the protection of the rights of villages. They have expressed that there is frequent power outage in the villages, that they are having difficulty communicating with cell phones and that they want cell towers. They demand that the work be accelerated to ensure greater agricultural and agricultural support. They expect work to be done to reduce the price of seed, diesel, fertilizer and increase support. They expect immediate removal of the victims due to the lack and error of work 2/B. The closure of irrigation units must be blocked, the irrigation union legislation must be reorganised, only the damaged irrigation troops must be shut down. According to the Metropolitan Law, villages in the neighborhood, forest villages, cannot receive help from the solidarity foundation. They want this situation to be corrected and within the scope of receiving help from the ORCCE. Our mayors can't use health services because of the presence of BUG-KUR bonuses that haven't been paid before. Each headman owes between $10,000 and $20,000 a BUG-KUR bonus. The Mukhtars want this debt to either be paid by the state or instalment by the government. In this way, he will be able to benefit from the health care services, as well as from the families they are obliged to care for. The special demands for the municipality are 1/5 in the Mediterranean, Toroslar, Yenişehir, Mezitli districts of Mersin. The plan of the thousand ▪ had to be discussed with the chiefs before, and told to the people. They feel that this plan is a concern for people, instead of being told and approved by NGOs, leaders, and the public, and arguing together, it's a sanctioned practice. The government's supports are last received by Tarsus, and the state's law works separately? They ask Mersin. Construction of the Karaevli Pond, which began four years ago, has not improved, which has negatively affected agriculture. Again, the Axis Dam, which will water the area from the righteous to the fountain, has been waiting for four years. They want it done as soon as possible. Mr. President and I, we don't lecture our chiefs, we listen to their problems first and then try to find a solution. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0006par0052	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Karabuk MP Burhanettin Uysal, who asked for the Turkish police's 173rd anniversary. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0007par0057	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise in 1989 that I have served for many years, that I have always been a member of the police academy, that I have never broken my heart, that I have not broken my heart since; the guarantee of the safety of the citizens' lives and property, the peace and stability of our country, the 173rd anniversary of the Turkish police organization. I salute your high council. Maslow's hierarchy of needs comes first after physiological needs. Where there's no security, there's no talking about basic rights and freedoms, no democracy, no peace. In view of this framework, one of our most important institutions, our police department has protected our country and our nation's indivisible integrity with a great sacrifice, while our citizen's safety in life and property, the rule of law, the fundamental rights and freedoms of our people, the transparency. One hundred and seventy-three years of glorious history, and with its self-improved innovative nature, traffic and terrorism, narcotics and IT crimes don't allow criminals in all areas. For example, the number of cities established by narcotics started in 2014 has been 50 cities and 77,000 street vendors have been arrested so far. In 2016, about 3,200 people were arrested in 35,000 cases as part of cybercrimes, while 12,000 were arrested in 11,000 cases in 2017. The Lost Alarm Project, the Rental Vehicle Reporting System, fingerprinting and so on in supervised freedom... it's not enough to explain the work of our organization, all the success of their projects from here. May the Lord continue his achievements. Just as our organization, our country, our nation's love of time, has to work its life without reason, politics must stand firm behind them, as they stand before crime and the criminal, so that the success of our organization, the peace and stability of our country may continue. And as the AK PARTY and its governments, we've always been behind our police, our organization, we've worked as hard as we can for their ability and motivation, and we continue to work. When we came to power, the Security Directorate budget -- 2 billion 430 million -- has been raised to 27 billion 292 million Turkish liras. By the time we arrived, the number of staff with 187,797 increased to 268k today, 91% of whom were university graduates. One personnel and equipment transport aircraft won, two reconnaissance and surveillance planes, 19 helicopters, 22 minis, 6 mimis and five tactical drones, 46,223 vehicles purchases, 3,695 of which are armored, have also strengthened the power of the Security Directorate, and we will continue to add. This paradise may be one of the most heavily responsible institutions of our country, our police force. We are on the transit route of many types of trafficking, refugees and immigrants, and they are struggling with drug trafficking and narcotics because we are both transit and target countries, and they are active, determined, and dedicated to many other crimes. In 2017 alone, 2,190 organisers were processed along with 29 immigrants in the 1,248 operations. On the darkest and longest night of our recent history, while bombs were falling on its head, it was our heroic police force, who played a key role in defending the glory of this nation, not against the tanks, heavy artillery, but against its heart, against its nation. Once again, I want to announce that we will continue our fight against terrorism with the same determination until our President, Mr. Recep Erdogan, says whatever letters you put side by side, whatever terrorist organization you set up, without any distinction between us, without saying good terrorist or bad terrorist, until the last terrorist is gone. With these thoughts and feelings, I ask God's mercy to our heroic policemen and all our martyrs who have died in their duty. He wishes our veterans health and long life; that our Turkish police force... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to all of your members who have worked with a great sacrifice and a great love of service. God be with them and their helpers. (
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0008par0068	Thank you, Mr. Easy. Congressmans, we, the Court, are celebrating the 173rd anniversary of the Turkish police force and the April 10th Police Week. We honor and mercy all our policemen who have sacrificed their lives for their country, wishing our veterans health and long lives. We wish all members of the police force success, greetings and love, who work with a great sacrifice and a great service. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system. In accordance with the request, I will make a pledge to 20 MPs to mark the anniversary of the police force. Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özer, Mr. Durmusoğlu, Mr. Tüner, Mr. Hurriyet, Mr. Özdış, Mr. Aydemir, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Cora, Mr. Nurlu, Mr. Çamak, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Şeks, Mr. Bektasoğlu, Mr. Engin, Mr. Yaşencı and Mr. Sarıhan. Mr. Özdemir, we'll start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0009par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Istanbul MP Enis Berberoglu has been imprisoned for 301 days as a political prisoner despite a broken case. Enis Berberoglu, whose innocence has been registered by the court's ruling, is a great shame on our country's behalf every day in prison. The Constitutional Court must immediately remove this first-degree court's contempt of law, make a decision to face an open trial and clear the way for freedom. This government, dominated by the rule of law and not by the rule of law, will no longer survive these injustices. Dear lawmakers, we call upon our MP Enis Berberoglu, who is a political prisoner in Maltepe Prison: tomorrow is ours to meet in freedom. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0010par0084	Thank you, too. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0011par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite all our warnings, the road linking Bursa to mountain districts cannot be completed. The road between Bursa-Orhaneli and the districts of Büçorhan spreads death and fear. In 2017, 58 accidents occurred between Bursa-Orhaneli, while five of our citizens were killed, 88 were injured. The number of accidents between Bursa and Grandorhan was 40, and five others were killed and 90 others were injured. In the early months of the year, the number of accidents occurred on Orhaneli Road was 5, again, eight of our citizens were injured and many were killed. Now I'm asking the Minister of Transport: how many more citizens do we have to lose to finish this road?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0012par0090	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0013par0092	Mr. President, first of all, I'm celebrating the 173rd anniversary of our police force. Mr. President, my question is Mr. Ismail Kahraman. The Parliament Speaker's request for a new building, stating that the House of Parliament does not meet its needs, led to the debate. The former public relations building, which was destroyed after July 15th, will be replaced by a new building, with banners hanging around it. The diapers are old, but no work has been done. Over the past week, dozens of waste trucks have been seen bringing land to the site of the old PR building. If a new building is to be built, why is the land being brought in? Why is this work being done? We will not carry the Parliament Speaker, we do not have such a search. What is the reason why the construction of the new building is not being started? Or do you want to take the House to the shadow of the palace and hide it from the public for now? We're expecting a new statement from our Speaker. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0014par0095	Thank you, too. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0015par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 173rd anniversary of the Turkish police force. I'm celebrating the day of our law enforcement officers on their way to Ataturk, and on the basis of the rule of law. The Justice and Development Party government does not provide solutions to our police's problems. Even the overtime fee of our police officers whose lives have been turned upside down by the fact that their hours are 12/24. We've had a lot of questions for the police, including civil police officers, but most of them didn't find the answer. I've also offered the law to make additional indicators of law enforcement 3600. Our police must be cleared of their problems. Even temporary police officers must receive support by considering different climate conditions, psychological transformations. The problems with eating, drinking, and such physical needs must be eliminated during police 12-hour shifts. In addition, regulations must be made in order to improve the living standards of our retired police officers. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0016par0103	Thank you, too. Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0017par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. And as with their sacrifice and their heroism, so far as I'm sure you'll make us proud, I sincerely celebrate the 173th anniversary of our Turkish police force, our fallen police, our veterans, with mercy and gratitude. Our officer, brave enough to put his life on the line for our security, has earned the confidence and support of our people, along with the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the prevention of crime, the enlightenment of events, and the remarkable performance and success of the capture of the perpetrators. Every day at the point of professional hardware and human relations, our conscious and strengthened police force is working hard to ensure the safety of our citizens. In this high sense of duty, most of the time, they give up their families and even themselves. On the occasion of the 173th anniversary of our Turkish police force's 173rd anniversary, we ask God's mercy on our heroic police officers, who have lost their duty, thanking our veterans, wishing my brothers and sisters at every level of our law enforcement.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0018par0110	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0019par0112	Mr. President, the people of Ceyhan County in Adana have been in hospital chaos for over six years. The first delivery of the project was held on June 11, 2012, and the 250-bed Adana Ceyhan State Hospital has not been completed in six years. The hospital, where various reasons have been proposed, promised to the Ceyhans that it will be completed at every opportunity, has not yet been presented to the people of the district. Public opinion also testified that the hospital workers who worked in hospital construction were unable to receive their money and gathered in front of the construction site to make a statement to the press. The questions we have submitted to the Parliament regarding the matter have not yet been answered. What are the reasons for not being finished in four years, even though the hospital's work has been declared to be 2014? The Ceyhans are no longer waiting for words, but action. The hospital, envisioned to serve the people of the district without excuses, must be completed immediately.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0018par0113	Dear Liberty... Your Honor, there is no freedom. Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0020par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs: The situation of the irrigation unit staff is still uncertain in the bill on the DSI, which we will begin today. Will the contract personnel be given the right to civil service? In particular, the union manager and the counter are stated to be officers because of their work. What about those of the regular staff, who will be transferred to the DSI with all their status? Will temporary workers be allowed to continue to become workers? By the way, it's April 10th, Police Day. I'm celebrating the holiday of every honest, decent cop in this country who hasn't sold himself to any congregation or power. I honor all our martyrs, first Gaffar Okkan and Cevat Yurdakul. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0021par0121	Thank you, Your Highness. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0022par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I congratulate you on the 173rd anniversary of our Turkish police force, which is working with great sacrifice to ensure our social peace. One of the main elements of our state, our law enforcement agency, is to perform the duties of our people in peace and security, the provision of public order, the establishment of law and the protection of human rights with great sacrifice. Our law enforcement is continuing its mission, with the authority it has received from the Constitution and the law, and with the great power it has received from our nation. Our Turkish police department does not refuse to sacrifice their lives to ensure the indivisible integrity of our country and the peace and security of our citizens. I thank our heroic officers, who are still in charge of their duties, for all the service they've done, for the mercy and gratitude of our beloved martyrs, thank you to our veterans. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0023par0127	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Dear Cora...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0024par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. The work of our law enforcement officers, who have made sacrifices day and night in the assurance of our country's peace and security, is above all recognition. They are fearlessly fulfilling their duties in accordance with the powers stated in the Constitution, without discrimination or privilege, in providing and protecting the basic rights and freedoms of all our people, and again, without blinking their eyes at all the terror centers. On this occasion, from the powers vested in us by the law, from our beloved nation to the 173rd anniversary of the Turkish police, to all who have been martyred in performing their sacred duties, to all those who have done their duty in the most remote corners of our country on this meaningful day, to all the members of the Guard who have done their duty with great determination and determination.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0023par0132	Thank you. Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0025par0135	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our police officer, who serves at every level of our police force, despite all social and economic problems, perform their duties under the rule of law and human rights. Despite the fact that the AKP was the most corrosive institution in its time, our police officer, who has served with the sacrifice of peace and peace and law for the peace and justice of our country, who will bring down the traps against law, democracy, peace and peace in our country, in the first place, respect of the Ataturk, revolution and principles, independent of all political ideas, and with the awareness of guaranteeing the law, I respectfully salute the state and the people of our law enforcement force on April 10th, celebrating the Day of the Police, honoring our officers and our veterans, who have been martyred in their duty.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0023par0136	Thank you. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0026par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. On the occasion of the founding anniversary of our police force, I ask God's mercy and thanks to our veterans, who have been killed in their duty. One hundred and seventy-three years of service to our nation, the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, the most important guarantee of peace and trust, I sincerely celebrate the anniversary of the establishment, and I wish you success. Again, yesterday was the Memorial and Architects Day of the Architect Sinan. For hundreds of years, the work of the architect Sinan (the architect) who built the most concrete works of our glorious history has been ingrained with engineering and aesthetics in harmony with the environment. With these artifacts, the power of our understanding of civilization is carved into this land. I celebrate the Day of Architects of Architects, who have produced value from our historical savings to the future, without opposing the projects needed for the growth and development of the country as we welcome architect Sinan, the master of architects.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0027par0143	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0028par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. The government has had to take steps in the past few months over the subcontractor issue we've been bringing up for years. Unfortunately, however, all of our subcontractors remain uncontained, subcontracted, subcontractor problems. On the other hand, it is a fact that there have been serious injustices in some of the jobs that are said to be subcontractors, and that many people's bread has been tampered with by uncertain tests and arbitrary oral interviews. Moreover, even in our Parliament, the security investigation has been transmitted to our side of the job as some workers who are not positive are waiting for a staff. In that sense, I'm asking the Speaker of Parliament: how many staff are fired when it comes to the security problem when it comes to subcontractorship? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0029par0152	Thank you, too. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0030par0155	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our police are working with great sacrifice, protecting our lives with their own. We know that there are many heroes, braves, like Fethi Sekin, the police force of our people, a source of trust. On the occasion of the 173rd anniversary of the 173th anniversary of the Turkish police force, who have always been there for our people, fighting terrorism, I sincerely wish to celebrate the Police Week of all of our police, the blessings of God to our martyrs, the urgent healings to our veterans, the Veterans of the Veterans, I salute the Veterans.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0029par0157	Thank you. Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0031par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you the 90th anniversary of the constitutional recognition of secularism, which constitutes the essence of democracy, the foundation of social life and freedom of faith in peace. I'm celebrating the 173rd anniversary of the police force. I call on power not only to celebrate, but to give them their basic rights and give them 3600 indicators. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, there are now 70,000 university students in prison in Turkey. 100,000 college students are on trial. When you say youth, we give you the right to be elected to an 18-year-old, but the young man who turns 18 has the right to go to prison first. They're being put in jail while they're being put in life. Sadly, when our young ones say, "What would you like to have in the future?," they first say, "I want to have a passport." I condemn this power that offends the young people of this country, that makes the young people of this country look for hope abroad, damn it!
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0032par0165	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0033par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm celebrating the 173rd anniversary of the Turkish police force. I remember with mercy and gratitude all our heroes who were martyrs of the nation, nation and flag all over Turkey, especially the Lakehead Special Operations. Of course, the government has to make the necessary arrangements regarding the rights of our police, especially the 3600 additional indicators... In addition, people face many challenges in their marriage arrangements, in our police department, in national education, in health, in all civil service. By eliminating all criteria in the government's co-ordination, the husband and wife must make a transfer to a place they want to be first, because there are hundreds of demands every day for our parliamentary deputies. So you're sending the police to the east, you're calling it mandatory service, but you're not doing your wife's transfer wherever she wants. All your criteria for this have been lifted, re-examined, and I will make sure that your husband and wife make their appointment where they want it to be, and I offer my respects.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0034par0172	Thank you. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0035par0175	Mr. President, thank you very much for your understanding. Our police are the guarantee of the safety of our nation's lives and property, the rule of law, democracy and our republic. I celebrate Police Week with this consciousness, crime and criminals, drug and terrorism, our brothers and all law enforcement employees fighting for their lives. I ask God's mercy to the officers who have been sent to eternity, to our martyrs. I'd like to remind you on this important day. As you know, the Constitutional Court has rejected the request to increase the additional indicators of police to 3,600, as well as based on status law. However, no one should take refuge behind that decision. Our police are still expecting 3600 indicators and an equal degree of level increase. We'll follow that. We expect an indication from the Home Office in accordance with the grounds and the law, so let's give them the good news as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0036par0179	Thank you, too. Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0037par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. I've voiced the struggles of our pensioners' lives in my speech in the House many times before. Those who retired before 2000 and those who retired after 2000 have different monthly computational systems. But there must be one system that covers all our pensions. That's why we need to get the policy passed by Congress as soon as possible. Our pensioners, who have the same number of bonuses and paydays, must also have the same pensions. Years of hard-working pensioners struggling to survive these salaries, and the money in their pockets melts every day in the face of inflation. When we tell our pensioners to give a salary bonus on the holidays, the AKP says there's no source, but when it comes to it, it's easy to find billions of dollars. I'm asking the AKP government: when will you hear the demand and cries of justice for our pensioners?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0036par0184	Instead of Mr. Maker, Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0038par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. Some of the guards are on staff, some of them are under contract, they're doing the same job, but their salaries are different. That's why they want equality. And there's no job risk or anything like that, and they have demands. Secondly, forest workers who worked temporarily in the state for five months and twenty-nine days have been extended to nine months and twenty-nine days. Again, employees of the state's provisional municipalities and private administrations want the deadline to be extended to nine months and twenty-nine days. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0039par0190	Thank you, too. Mr. Sarihan...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0040par0193	Thank you. Mr. President, as you and our other friends know, the research officer at Eskişehir Osmangazi University, Volcano Bayar, murdered four of his friends. It is also known to us that the main cause of this incident was the recent exports and arrests. As you know, we also have people who commit suicide because of their expulsion. This problem needs to be resolved immediately. It's necessary that the detention centers are filled, that people have been removed from public duties and thrown out is a threat to the country. I would like to draw attention to this threat, and I would like to invite the Home Secretary to investigate and take precautions. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0041par0197	Thank you, too. Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0042par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the 173th anniversary of our Turkish police force working hard to secure the environment of trust, congratulating it on its difficult tasks, such as protecting basic rights and freedoms, although it has been increasingly destroyed for 16 years. May God have mercy on our heroic officers who have been killed in their duty. As Ataturk put it, the police should be as compassionate as a lawyer. The police are in the presence of those who have no conscience. Sadly, our police are abandoned in this task at the expense of their lives, not even half the value they deserve. The government considers the police to be foster children. Even though they're fighting the same battle as the soldier, 3600 additional indicators aren't issued to the police. They have a lot of problems like lack of staff, overtime. As the Republican People's Party, like power, we will not just celebrate. And we want it to be known that we will continue our struggle until the end to get our police's rights. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0043par0203	Thank you. Congressmans, we have just learned that Mr. Ali Haydar Öner, MP of the Republican People's Party Isparta, who we served with in the 24th term, has passed away. We offer our condolences to his family, his fellow deputies, and to the Republican People's Party family. God rest his soul. We've worked together, and I know him very well, and I'd like to say good-bye to him if he's passed. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the group presidents who are demanding a word. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0044par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, regretfully learned of the death of Ali Haydar Öner, who served as CHP MP in the 24th term. We extend our condolences to the deceased and to his family and to the Republican People's Party community. Mr. President, on the occasion of the 173rd anniversary of the Turkish police force, we are celebrating members of the Turkish police force who have been making sacrifices for the peace and security of our country. Our law enforcement officers are members of a life-threatening profession for the peace and security of our country, for the peace and security of our country, for the unity and unity of our nation, without keeping an eye on the workforce. Without security, there's no freedom, there's no law. Turkish police are guarantees of peace, security, law, freedom, human rights and conscience. The Turkish police's struggle with crime and the criminal has set an example for the world. Our officers, who work day and night with the love of the country, the nation and the state, are precious to us, each one of them our pride. With that respect, I would like to express that we are prepared to contribute and contribute as the National Movement Party to any study of the conditions of our law enforcement, financial and autonomy rights. With these thoughts, on the anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish police force, we celebrate all of our policemen, all of our sincerest love, our respects to all of them. As we carry out our duties, I wish all our heroes, who were killed in the end of the treacherous attacks, to the grace of God, to our veterans, to a healthy life. Between April 8th and April 14th, it is also celebrated as Health Week.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0045par0219	Complete, Mr. Akçay, please.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0044par0220	Health Week aims to ensure that health and awareness of health benefits reach large public populations. Health is the most important value of human life. A healthy society is a society that walks safely into the future. I hereby celebrate Health Week for all health workers who strive for public health in the health sector, and wish each and every one of our nation a healthy life. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0046par0223	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Danış Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0047par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to express my condolences to CHP's former Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner. May he rest in peace and rest in peace. Mr. President, Volcano Bayar, Vice Dean Michael Yalçın, Faculty Secretary Fatih Özmutlu, research officer Yasir Armazan and professor Serdar Çağlak have been killed with a gun last week. Immediately after the murders, the incident was reported in media bodies close to the government as a simple story of insanity. However, it was soon revealed that it was not simply a case of madness or murder, but that there were very dark and dirty relationships behind it. The same media is now trying to get out of it by linking the Volcano Bayar. Who really protected this man? Who's gonna pay for this? Right after the incident, Volcano Bayar was arrested, but secrecy was brought into the investigation, and we, the public, will not be able to find out how the murder was committed, who was behind the violence, we will be deprived of the facts. We know very well that whenever a confidentiality decision is made, other relationships are behind a series of unclean cases that are being tried to hide. The government must not cover this up. So even though Mr. President talked about everything, he still hasn't said a word about killings like the massacre in Osmangazi. Before the killings took place, academics, the Presidential Communication Centre (CIMER), the Prime Minister's Communication Centre (BIMER), the Ministry of National Education Board of Investigations, the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0048par0232	Complete, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0047par0233	...they've filed several criminal charges against the President of Eskişehir Osmangazi University. In the faculty corridors, this takes 24 bullets. The person who says, "No investigation has been launched against Volcano Bayar, so there is no result." On August 10, 2016, AKP President Erdogan said: "You can have friends and friends in the O community. I say expose them. You need to report it to the D.A.'s office. It's a patriotic debt. He may not know everyone's intel, he may not know the police, or he may not make it. Look, the men are on the run. Here, Volcano Bayar is an acceptable informant citizen. He's reporting 103 academics, Mr. President, and he's kicking some of them out of school. That's why there are academics in prison for five and a half months. The police, the governorship, without skipping, are processing Volcano Bayar's informers and, unfortunately, that's what's being said behind the four funerals right now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish it.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0049par0238	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0047par0240	Thank you. I'd like to stress to you that no petitions for Volcano Bayar have been filed and that the chancellor should resign immediately, while he is still in charge. The Chancellor must resign immediately. In the academic world, insecurity is really running wild now, and the State of Emergency Commission is now in the face of these events that have become a disgrace, so we don't know what this commission is doing. A murder suspect named Volcano Bayar kills four people, fires 103 people, but no petitions are filed against him. It's a very serious event right now, and we're not sure how the government, our teachers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In order for this blood not to remain on the ground, we say that the chancellor must resign immediately, and we ask that the government follow this investigation with the proper care.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0050par0246	Thank you. Mr. Ozkoch, please come in.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0051par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, we would like to thank you for the condolences on the death of our 24th term Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner. We offer him God's mercy, and our condolences to his relatives. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers have asked for life in prison for three hundred and one days before the trial of Enis Berberoglu, who has been a prisoner, on charges of espionage, and the local court has sentenced him to 25 years in prison. The Supreme Court, the Court of Reputation, has violated the sentence, saying there is no crime. The local court therefore did not recognise the court's decision, in a completely political manner, by violating every rule of law. The case went back to the hearing, the court of law against retrial. For Enis Berberoglu, the court committee that broke the conviction was also exiled in an operation in the middle of the night. İstanbul District Courthouse 2. The reason the Department of Corrections has to make it a crime is that the Enis Berberoglu case has no state secrets, no secret documents, no espionage, so there's no crime; there's five years and ten months in prison. We're waiting for the Constitutional Court to untie this knot, and we demand a verdict immediately. Today is April 10th, secular day, one of the most important milestones in the history of the Republic. On April 10, 1928, we agreed that our state would have no religious identity, and under this roof, we unanimously said: "Our state will have no religious credentials, and every citizen of the Republic of Turkey will have freedom of conscience, worship and religion."
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0052par0254	Please complete, Mr. Ozkoç, I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0051par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. In the past 90 years, there are those who don't understand that secularism is still a guarantee for us to live together, who want to question the constitutional guarantee of secularism. Friends, citizens, secularism cannot be questioned. We live together, our freedom, our democracy can't be questioned, and the guarantee of them can't be questioned, they can't be celebrated. Happy secular day. Today is also Police Day, the 173rd anniversary of the Turkish police force. I'm celebrating the holiday of all our cops. I know that our law enforcement forces work hard for our safety, for our peace of mind, for their family lives, even for their lives. Studies show that the average police life span is ten years shorter. They're having financial, spiritual difficulties and stress. The police profession, unfortunately, also comes up with high suicide rates. We need to protect our cops, make their lives easier.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0053par0261	Please complete it, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0051par0262	Thank you, sir. As the Republican People's Party, we expect the support of the ruling and opposition parties on the agenda of the proposal of the law, which we offered to make additional indicators of the police 3600. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0054par0265	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Bostanci, please come in.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0055par0268	Mr. President, thank you. We wish Allah's mercy to the Republican People's Party Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner. We offer our condolences to his family, to his loved ones and to the People's Republican People's Party, to the entire nation. May his place be in heaven. Today we ask for God's mercy on our Specialist Sergeant Serdal Sun, who was buried in Niğde, who was killed in the fight against terrorism. On this occasion, once again, we honor our martyrs, our veterans. It's Police Week. It's the 173rd anniversary of the establishment of the police force. It's a very rich time to create an acquish, to create a tradition, to take advantage of the experience of the past while doing its duty. Basically, that's how institutions are rooted. The Turkish police department has successfully carried out its mission as to the well-being and well-being of the community entrusted to it. In doing so, we have had officers who have been martyred, wounded, and wounded from time to time in this difficult task. And We remember them with mercy and grace. We've made a lot of arrangements for our police's rights, technical equipment, working conditions. They have better conditions, they serve in better places. Our hearts want better. This is more than just an obligation. We've raised their indicators from 2400 to 3,000. When conditions improve tomorrow, there will be no doubt what will be done.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0056par0274	Complete, Mr. Bostanci, please. I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0055par0275	Today, again, is the anniversary of the death of one of our great architects, architect Sinan. The architect Sinan (1490-1588) was a great man who, in the Ottoman era of Yavuz Sultan Selim and Halazi Sultan Süleyman, was an architect of the most glorious period of the Ottoman Empire, and was the architect of the architecture. Architecture is not only about stone and soil, but about a structure, an understanding, a civilization, where all the references of that civilization are applied to stone and soil. It is the work of an apprentice, the work of Solomoniah, and the work of the cunning work of Salimiah, which represents it, starting in the mosque of the prince. Everyone knows that when the architect Sinan ▪ did all these works, not just with knowledge of mathematics, the moat, geometry...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0056par0278	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Botanci. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0055par0280	...we also know that you did so in the eyes of the heart, and when the Mosque of Solomonia is finished, a child about its minaret is crooked. How can we correct it when you say, "How can we correct it?" Everyone knows that you're trying to get that boy's heart, and I won't tell you the details. Today, again, is the anniversary of the death of Marshal Fevzi Çakmak. He is one of the leading members of our Imperial War. He's done various missions. In the Battle of Sakarya, he fought side by side with Mustafa Kemal. He's been named marshal by the Clave. He's made a throne in the hearts of the people. He emigrated to the eternal world in 1950. We honor him with gratitude and respect for his service to this nation. We salute everyone. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0057par0284	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Gürer, please.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0058par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Niğde is a martyr again. Erzincan Kemaliye, who is a martyr in the city of Niğdeli, wants God's mercy on Serdal Sun, and I share his pain. My condolences to his family and to all our people. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0059par0290	Thank you. We pray for God's mercy on our martyr. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0060par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. It is our lawmakers' duty to improve the unity, integrity and order of our country, our nation's lives and property, to improve the rights of our heroic Turkish police, to adjust their pensions, to raise their additional indicators, which are 3,000, to 3600, and most importantly to facilitate the work of our policemen who are doing their duty. The 173th anniversary of our Turkish police force is celebrated, and I say, Lord, don't let a tear touch our police's feet. May my Lord give strength and strength to all law enforcement. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0061par0300	Thank you, too. Mr. Tamer...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0062par0303	Thank you, my dear President. I'm celebrating the 173rd anniversary of our police force. I'd like to express my congratulations again on our entire police department, which has been altruistically dedicated, day and night. As of the weekend, five of our friends and I had the opportunity to visit the Arab Muslim refugee camp in Bangladesh. We also found that this camp of 1,100 people in Cox (Bazars) was very troubled. There, we found a painting, especially where the Republic of Turkey felt his tender hand. We have observed that our organizations, such as AFAD, Rediay, TİKA, have served with a superior force. We ask God to help them, so that they may return to their country. I wanted to inform the council. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0063par0308	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan, let's hear it for you, and let's drop the bet. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0064par0312	And I'm celebrating the days of our police force, and I'm saying many years together. I'd like to pick up where our deputy Ismail left off. As health counselors, we arrived at Bangladesh, Dakka. An hour's flight from there to Cox's Bazar, and then another half-hour of land -- the camps, where there were 600 to 700,000 people. We have personally observed once again what a great state Turkey is. That's where we saw our hospital service again. We even signed a small operation with the president of Ismail, where a circumcision was performed, and indeed Turkey remains a hope for the entire world, as everywhere. The orphans there, the orphans there, the oppressed Muslim people there...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0065par0316	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The meeting of the Turkish-EU Karma Parliamentary Commission (KPK) Presidential Court (KPK) was held on 23 March 2018 at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's 7 March 2018 and Resolution 55. The meeting will be held in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it will be presented to the General Assembly's information under Article 33620 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman It has been presented to your knowledge. Congressmans, we will now discuss the group proposals. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/4/2018 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 10 April 2018, Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly Deputy Coral Danış Beştaş and İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu (7453) were proposed to meet their talks on Tuesday (September 10/4/2018) in an effort to investigate all the dimensions of unlawfulness in the group's trial. Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran will speak on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group with a proposal to explain the reason for the proposal. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0066par0346	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I'm going to talk about the unlawfulness of lawmakers' judgments. In fact, this is only a small part of Turkey's judiciary. Not five minutes, five hours, five days, five hundred days, we're probably going through a process where too much lawlessness has developed to consume. Because, you know, there's a principle called dissolution of forces that separates the judiciary, the administration and the law, but in Turkey, the administration is now using the judiciary as a means of liquidating political rivals. If you look at it, there is no legal explanation for the attacks against itself, particularly the most opposing, the country's real hope for a solution, the People's Democratic Party over the past two and a half years. It's a complete political liquidation, a series of political genocide operations, and in the framework of these operations, 15 of our fellow lawmakers, especially our co-Chairs, have been arrested, and nine of our fellow MPs, who should be under arrest right now, are under arrest. Every day, there are petitions brought to this parliament to reduce the power of parliament, the will of the people is ignored, the hands are raised, and the MPs are reduced. Now, I'm going to give you an example or two of these illegalities. Tomorrow is the trial of our co-Chair, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, in Ankara, but it is not held at the Medical Courthouse. Why? For security reasons. Who's safety, what's safety? We know it's not because of the security reasons; we know it's actually a trial that's been abducted from the public; it's how the law is done in Sincan Courthouse so that the public, the press, the public can't see it. Because a similar one happened in Istanbul, in the middle of the mountain, in a place where people can't reach it, a courtroom has been set up, and a court is being tried. Why was he on trial at this trial in Istanbul? From his speech at the 2013 Nevrozu. Dear friends, when the 2013 Nevrosis is built, perhaps we should take a look at that period and then look at the headlines. On that day, two years and six months after the crime was admitted, two years and six months, prosecutors slept, two years and six months in power, the concept of that time fell asleep because the peace process was good for them, two years and seven months, when the HDP won the victory of June 7th over them, won the victory of November 1st, stood before them as a major political opponent, all woke up at once. What headlines did the mainstream media of that day, which we call the pool media, make? The Nevrosis Fire burned for peace. There was this talk. Artists who cried war today were crushing each other in the square of the square of the Amed Neurozu, in the square of Diyarbakir. There were a million people clapping for this conversation. Look, the headlines were made... but look, Ayla Akat Akat, who was in that day's Nevroz, is in this photograph, who today is under arrest, Selahattin Demirtaş, who was arrested, who appeared two years and seven months later or was noticed. Has he never had this conversation before? He did it, he did it from the council bench, he did it at the group meeting, he did it in a lot of places. Each time, we say: The talks made from this platform at group meetings are part of the irresponsibility of the Constitution, not just by us. Look, on April 8th, a few days ago, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, who was on a program, who is now on the General Assembly, said the same thing. He said that Mr. Kilicdaroglu doesn't tell the public the truth, he twists everything. What he said at the Assembly General Assembly and group meeting is being held outside the scope of investigation and prosecution, even if it is a crime according to our Constitution. So why isn't the prosecution's investigation being investigated before the investigation is launched? I have to ask, Mr. Vice President: has this MP ever made this speech in Parliament? Has the Presidential Court been asked any questions in the House? ▪ Did this deputy make this speech, which has the quality of the crime, but was it expressed by the assembly stand? No, it wasn't. Well, we're in the process of prosecution... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, one more minute...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0067par0355	Here's an extra minute.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0066par0356	So, what happens when we demand it during the prosecution? The board is taking a ten-minute break. He's supposed to negotiate -- he's going to negotiate in appearance -- five minutes, a meeting, phone traffic, what should we do, what should we do? When they return, our demand is denied. This is clearly an abuse of office, a crime, and it clearly undermines the reputation of this House. All my words on this stand are covered by immunity, absolute irresponsibleness, but when it comes to HDP MPs, when it comes to the matter of the Figen Demirtaş, when it comes to the matter of the Figen Yüksekdağ, when it comes to Burcu Çelik -- yesterday's sentence has been approved -- when it comes to Gülser Yıldırım, the issue is not considered as immunity and irresponsibility. So, as I said, all of this is going to be talked about, and maybe it's going to take days, maybe months of talks, and we're going to have to set up a commission to talk about these illegalities that we're going to find. Oh, and even if you don't, even if these pressures continue, you can see that you can't intimidate us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's obvious you still can't handle us from your attacks. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0068par0362	Thank you, Mr. Basian. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Özkoc will be speaking on behalf of Sakarya MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0069par0366	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. My fellow congressmen, great businessmen, great firms, become lawyers to defend their rights and their law. People who have money, people who have power, have behinds to defend them, lawyers, lawyers, and the people behind them are elected MPs. (CHP) The MPs of the nation are there to protect their rights and their law. Just as lawyers, lawmakers defend the rights of their clients, lawmakers have to defend the rights of their own nation. In Turkey today, however, lawmakers are now held in prison without trial in a country without justice or law. Enis Berberoglu is the deputy of the nation. Enis Berberoglu is a lawmaker who has been elected by helical votes, like his mother's white milk. Enis Berberoglu is a patriotic journalist who believes in independence, believes in freedom. The mentality that kept Enis Berberoglu in prison as a traitor is in fact the greatest betrayal and betrayal of the country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, Enis Berberoglu has no state secrets, no secret documents, no espionage. He stood tall behind his people. And he's been fighting for his nation with honor in prison for over a year. The Constitutional Court had to announce its decision on Enis Berberoglu in January at the latest. We call the Constitutional Court the Republican People's Party Group: let our congressman friend go and give our congressman his freedom. My dear friends, I am the vice president of the group, and I have a say in the group on behalf of the leader of a political party. You, Ahmet Yıldırım, a group of vice presidents, have taken from him the power of parliament and the position of the group's vice president, in a word only to the President. You can't do this. If you do this, if you silence the members of the group, if you silence the MPs... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you silence the general presidents, you run this country with dictatorship. These people will never allow it.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0070par0375	İstanbul MP Yıldız Seferinoğlu will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Seferinoglu.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0071par0378	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group against the HDP group proposal. Before I begin, I'm celebrating the 173rd anniversary of the establishment of our Turkish police force. I wish God's mercy to our law enforcement officers, who were killed in the struggle against terrorism in the country and abroad, and to our veterans, as well. I hereby salute the General Assembly. In general, immunity from law enforcement means that lawmakers cannot be subject to certain criminal proceedings without Parliament's permission on the grounds that they committed a crime. In contrast to immunity from law enforcement, lawmakers are granted temporary protection during their parliamentary mandate. It is also envisioned in our Constitution that immunity from law can be removed in certain ways. As it is known, the amendment to the Constitution on May 20th 2016 has opened the door for the proceedings reached the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Ministry of Justice. The Constitutional amendment has been made and parliamentary immunity has been lifted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly after all opposition parties have expressed their opinion on the removal of immunity on various platforms. The process was carried out in accordance with the Constitution. Fifty files on 29 MPs from the Justice and Development Party have been processed, including 50 files on 59 MPs from the Republican People's Party, 518 files on 55 MPs from Peoples' Democratic Party, 23 files on 10 MPs from the National Party of Action, 5 files on 1 independent lawmakers, 810 files on 1 MP, a total of 154. Again, regarding the sound and video system mentioned in the motion, the Constitutional Court stated that the voice and video transfer process used in depositions and interrogations meets the principle of face-to-face, allowing the use of this procedure to be brought before the judge at once from the execution institution or from outside the court's judiciary and to be given a reasonable decision on their rights. Thus, in the process following the removal of immunity, trials are carried out in accordance with the law by independent judiciary. I end my conversation with these sentences, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0072par0384	Thank you, Mr. Seferinoglu.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0073par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0072par0386	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0073par0387	I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0072par0388	This way, please.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0073par0391	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I listened to the minister, he didn't pick on me, but he misinformation the public. As our orator has just stated, the process of immunity is unconstitutional, and so far we've been telling every day that lawmakers of Peoples' Democratic Party MPs have not been subjected to any action under the removal of the immunity of other parties, just as Enis Berberoglu is the exception. We've said over and over again that this package has been defied by the HDP, and the fact that only our MPs are dealing with it, except for one exception, shows the background plan. I'm past that. I'd really like the ruling party to have a say in the matter of irresponsibility. 99.9 per cent of our current public justices are related to the words spoken on the stand. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So Mr. Demirtaş will come to court tomorrow, the court refuses to ask the Parliament to speak. Or yesterday Burcu Çelik was sentenced to six years in prison, and the local court and the assembly court does not ask for talks from the Parliamentary Assembly. Let's say for a moment that immunity is in accordance with the Constitution and lifted, but irresponsibility is absolute. It is a declaration that the judiciary is not independent of responsibility, that the government has decided under duress under orders and instructions.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0074par0397	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0073par0398	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Right now, it's not just immunity, it's law irresponsibility that's on hold for the HDP, and I want to make it very clear.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0074par0400	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/4/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. Kayseri MP Cetin Arık and his friends have asked the Parliament's research proposal (1846 rows) given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 9/4/2018 to investigate how the Committee for Protection of Personal Data works, to provide a solution to illegal methods that are considered a great risk to voter will and democracy. lu) has been proposed to take over the other proposals and hold talks on Tuesday (June 10/4/2018). Kayseri MP Çetin Arik will speak on behalf of the proposed Republican People's Party Group to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0075par0418	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Precious lawmakers have recently found that in the United States and the United Kingdom, data belonging to 87 million users of Facebook have been manipulated by the choice of voters, without the consent of individuals, through users' activities on social media, consumption habits and political trends, and by sending personal messages. In fact, similar scandals occurred in our country during the AKP administrations. The population information of over 50 million Turkish voters has been stolen. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, the Minister of Justice of the period, I don't know where he got out, how he got out, but when you look at the numbers, it's close to the number of voters in Turkey, where and how he got out. The required investigation was launched in the legal and administrative dimension. He made a statement in the form of a statement. The identity of the person who stole this data remains a secret, the AKP government and the bureaucrats he appointed, but the outcome of the matter he promised to investigate with the legal and administrative dimension of Mr. Bozdağ. I'd like to ask you, on behalf of the public, who stole this data? What purpose was this data stolen to be used for? Have these data been used in our citizens' cases of fraud? Has there been any criminal action against the people who stole this data? In the 2010 referendum, your companion said, "Resurrect even the dead, make them vote." Glory be to Him! Were the dead resurrected and voted? Is there going to be a vote in the next election? All these questions are the questions our nation has been waiting for, wondering the answers. Another scandal occurred in our country is that the Social Security Agency has sold personal health data to a private company for 65 million TL. Also recently, Turkey has reportedly accessed the personal data of about 235,000 people without permission. As Mr. Bekir Bozdağ put it, any work, if any work has been done by the Association for the Protection of Personal Data from Turkey's pupils, has been done; these are the questions that our nation expects answers to. The privacy of personal data may have no meaning for a government that nullifies election frauds in front of society by the Supreme Election Board, allows all means to win the election, monopolise the media, employs state resources in election work, doesn't know any ethical principles. Dear lawmakers, I don't know how much protection at the Institute for the Protection of Personal Data, but there's a company that buys the Kırşehir Candy Factory, which is certain to be protected by the AKP government. The company is set up for 300,000 liras in Ankara, living in a slum in Kayseri, its general manager. Allegedly, the company has not even done a single commercial operation since it was founded, and it is buying the factory, which has 89,400 tonnes of sugar in its warehouse, for $325m. The question is, where did a company worth $300,000, which has never been engaged in commercial activity, get $325 million? Of course, for those of you who transferred $15 million into the vault of a company built on Man Island with $5 lira, I wanted to ask you on behalf of my people. Another question: why was a factory worth $325 million if the sugar in its warehouse was sold to a company at a cost? Who's behind this company? You buy candy, you give the factory away for free? Is it my imagination to ask for the protection of personal data during the AKP administrations, where the sweat of the forehead has been scorned and has not made any money other than his salary? However, the privacy of personal data is very important for those who want to make Turkey a country of principles, a country of law, a democratic country of ethical values. Dear lawmakers, I have full confidence that the rights and fundamental freedoms of everyone will not be removed from loyalty to the Constitution and that the honorable MPs who have promised honor and honor will not allow personal information to be stolen and the preferences to be manipulated. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0076par0432	Thank you, Mr. Arik. İstanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Yölter will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Orender. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0077par0437	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect. First of all, I'm celebrating the 173rd anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish police force. I pray for God's mercy to our beloved martyrs, and long life to our veterans. Of course, I've been promised as part of a group proposal from the Republican People's Party. The issue of the preservation of personal data is actually the need for both democratic mentality and national will and human beings. Now, as social media platforms grow, as they expand, people's private spaces are violated in parallel. You can appreciate that privacy is also an innocence. If we're going to maintain privacy, we need to know that we have to preserve innocence. In one assessment, the late Erol Güngör says that if technological developments stand in the way of social improvements, so if social developments fall behind technological development, the gap in between will be moral weakness. Today, we have to deal with the issues, complaints, complaints, issues, in its moral dimension, with a lack of morality. If there is no morality, if moral anxiety is not followed and provided, there will be a violation of privacy and personal data -- as before -- someone will get it uncontrollably. Personal data is also a human right. Each person has a speciality, as I've just expressed -- a private space. Touching this privacy, this privacy, is about trampling on human rights. To tolerate it, to accept it, to call it legitimate, which is not possible. If we can't provide a social development parallel to social development, a social development that contributes and supports technological development at the same time, we'll be talking more about personal data violations. Then, in the hands of someone, in the hands of crime and crime, our personal information will be dealt with uncontrollably. I'm out of time. I salute you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0078par0444	Thank you, Mr. Orender. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0079par0448	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's proposal. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, personal data is being used against the law by both political and capital groups. We're all reading about this being used on social media. It's a fact that some sectors use all the information about our private lives against the law to make more profit than their product and service presentations. We're all aware of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which still holds its warmth. Even when we examine this, the matter becomes important. It has become clear that more than 50 million Facebook users were directed in favour of Trump in the United States presidential election, as well as at the Brexit referendum in England, that the public, the voters, were directed. Dear lawmakers, it seems that social media platforms are becoming more and more visible in our lives as if they've been watching us, turning our house into a house, and there's no difference. Both states and political parties and some capital circles are monitoring us in some way, affecting our social habits, consumption habits, even political preferences, and starting to market a number of dirty relationships. Now, valuable lawmakers, when it is clear that these forces are actually affecting our consumption habits and choice of voters using psychographic methods through social media, it is customary to decide what political preference to use at the computer before citizens go to the polls, where to press the seal. Democracy is not only destroyed by weapons, threats, pressures, but it continues to be a major tool of pressure with IT technology in today's IT age. So on March 24, 2016, there was a commitment made by the government in the Protection of Data Act, what was it? The law has made a commitment and commitment that all personal data will be protected, secured. However, Facebook said that 234,584 individuals in Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute, please?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0080par0454	Complete, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0079par0455	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, he's shown that 234,584 people are affected. Therefore, Turkey needs to be shown how the Personal Data Protection Board, established within the framework of this law, performs an audit, plays a role, develops a control mechanism for decryption, dissolving of private life on all these social platforms. In this sense, it is imperative that a parliamentary research commission be established in accordance with the motion given by us. Otherwise, we say, as we have given examples in Turkey, there would be an opportunity to use more serious personal data in an illegal manner, as we have so far in Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0081par0459	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bartın MP Yilmaz Bronzeç will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0082par0463	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the CHP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Today is the 173rd anniversary of the Turkish police force. Congratulations on this special day for all our cops. We give thanks from this place to our policemen who work for the peace and security of our nation. I ask for God's mercy and my condolences on our fellow martyrs in these works. And I salute our veterans here, and I wish them a healthy, peaceful day with their families. Dear lawmakers, the issue of the CHP group proposal includes the request to establish a parliamentary research commission for the study of personal data against the law, the Protection of Personal Data and Council. Personal data... A constitutional right to protect personal data. The person's full knowledge of real people contains personal data, and its protection is an important issue, a constitutional right protected by international contracts and by our Constitutional laws. The issue of protecting personal data came to the agenda of international law, the system, in the 1980s. OECD has set guidelines. Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights has also imposed measures on the entity's states regarding the protection of personal data. The Council of Europe has a Convention on Protection of Individuals against Autoprocession of Personal Data; Turkey has signed this contract, and Turkey has determined that it is part of the contract in 2016 under the Law on Compliance of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The protection of personal data in Turkey also provided a constitutional guarantee for those who entered our Constitution in 2010 with a constitutional amendment and had the right to access these data, to correct these data, and to use them for their purposes. Of course, after this amendment in the Constitution, the Constitution's Law on Protection of Personal Data was adopted on March 24, 2016, in accordance with what we call the primary legislation, and was established within the Constitutional framework. This Council follows the application, there are decisions made by the board, regarding the protection of personal data... Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0083par0471	Complete, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0082par0472	Thank you, Mr. President. There are decisions the Council has made in accordance with the laws of the Constitution and the law, based on international contracts, and in light of these principles concerning the lack of practice, regarding the protection of personal data. Of course, in 2012, in 2014, and 2016, further sanctions have been strengthened by double and tripled increases in these sentences. Now, when we look at it, the legislation is done, both internationally and nationally; the administrative structure is done, and the penal sanctions are done in case of violation; Parliament has established a research commission in the 24th term. Here, to monitor the application's ability to maintain more personal data... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...because there's been a parliamentary research commission in the past, so I don't think there's any need to set up a new commission. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0084par0479	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0085par0480	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0084par0481	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0085par0482	Before the Republican People's Party group's proposal is voted, I demand a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit01spe0084par0483	Thank you very much, that's very kind of you. I submit the proposal to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. Closing Time. 16.38
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0084par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/4/2018 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's draft of Laws and Proposals and Other Actions From Commissions have been adopted into the 1st order of Law Charter 548, and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this; The Law Bill 548 was proposed to be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. To explain the motive of the proposal, the suggestion is...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0086par0017	We're not talking.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0084par0018	The Justice and Development Party will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on behalf of Ağrı MP Diryet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0087par0021	Mr. President, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Rights on behalf of the AKP group's proposal, I wish we could go on and talk about the group proposal and know exactly what they want to do. Dear friends, the General Assembly's agenda is usually organised at the request and needs of the AKP Group. I mean, it's a very pleasant approach, and you shorten the conversation when you feel like it, and you extend the time of conversation when you don't feel like it. So, as you enjoy it, it's also possible to say that, in a sense, you run the House like your private company. Therefore, there are never, in fact, compromises, persuasions, and democratic rules in this House. And when something happens that you don't want -- which is usually very rare, just like last week -- then, frankly, like whiny kids, you start a crisis right away, and you extend the process, and you try to turn it back on your own. Last week we all had the most specific example of this; you brought in a motion that was not accepted, but you officially blocked the House, delayed its agenda; in a way, in a way, you struck the agenda of the House, in fact, the presidency; again, you brought in the Speaker, you sat him down, and you got what you wanted. Therefore, I would like to express that your attitude is antidemocratic, that you organized the Assembly, the General Assembly, about your needs. Dear friends, why are you really so afraid of the opposition's speech? I mean, all the TVs and newspapers are already doing your propaganda, every time we turn on a channel, one of you is on TV, and even your neighborhood commission meetings are on TV, and yet, it's not enough, you're trying to limit five minutes and ten minutes of opposition talk here. Yeah, why? Because you're really afraid of the truth, and the truth shakes, and the more you can do, the more you try to get through what you really want to do, to run the House like a notary in some way, without arguing, without talking, without explaining the agenda, without actually raising your hand. Every time this council agenda comes up, every time we look at these lines, there's five or ten people sitting on it. Child abuse is being discussed, you're absent; business killings are being discussed, you're gone; again, the country's most basic problems, the democracy issue, the peace issue, you're not there when it comes to it. We're looking at it: you just come running when it comes to voting, rejecting, rejecting proposals, and that's the attitude you're taking. You did the same thing with the Alliance law. You rushed through the Alliance law in the middle of the night. What is it? If this is the way the General Assembly will be run, what happens if there are 600 of them, frankly, if there aren't?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0088par0027	I'll give you one more minute, please complete.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0087par0028	So you're actually going to bring the agricultural law to our agenda right now. Look, we've become agricultural suppliers from 103 countries. In the last ten years, the number of farmers has decreased by 637,000. Again, in the last two years, the farmer's debt has increased 13 times. So there's going to be an open, transparent, legal debate where the public is watching and listening, where the fundamental problems of this scale are discussed, the solution proposals are brought in? That's definitely not how this is going to happen. Again, you're in a hurry, trying to get through this by shortening the talking time. Obviously, you're not looking for an arrangement in agriculture, you're looking for a vote out of agriculture. We know that all these laws, regulations, and works are made for this, and our people know it. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0088par0031	Thank you, Mr. Stonedemir. İstanbul MP Engin Altay will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party group. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0089par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the Grand General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0090par0037	You're the Allameicihan, aren't you?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0089par0038	You didn't tell me, did you? There's a saying: "Hüylü won't give up his habit. " The ruling party can't get out of this mood. You've made a law 18 times in this House -- I know -- about one thing. Why did you do it? You ignored the opposition's warnings. Why did you do it? You ignored us. The Supreme Court said, "You can't do this. You won't stop getting this slap on the law." Now, frankly, our problem as Republican People's Party is not to stop you here, but to protect the interests of the farmer, of the saintly nation, but to warn you at the point of your wrongs. So, there's a lot of stuff that we're going to say, of course, that could happen in the 548 rows of Bill of Law, which will be placed in the first place on your group's agenda, at your suggestion. What's wrong with us? Why are we here talking in opposition? Don't make any mistakes, so people don't get hurt. Now, I say very concretely: that while the Constitution's 169, 170, and 171 are standing there, you must spend the 13th and 14th Articles of this bill with the majority of its resources, challenge the Constitution, the law, and I do not know this Constitution. I told you in the last Commission, and I don't trust this Constitutional Court, but there's no Constitutional Court that's going to talk about the 13th and 14th Articles -- about watering troops, about friends, about time that won't spoil or return. I mean, why would you go wrong with your eyes open? What is the point of this stubbornness, of this ambition? That's what the government wants... and we've had our talks with the Minister, we've continued, we've spoken our thoughts on the Commission. I also address the conscience of the majority party, the ruling party's MPs. Our forests and forests are guaranteed by the Constitution. This government of yours says now, I will sell these forests for many years. If your heart is content, say yes. Come and tell us, my friend, that our hearts are content with it. Let us not oppose it. But it's the same with lawmakers, watering co-ops and irrigation troops. In total, withdraw 8 articles of this 90-something law, and we'll get the rest out of here in two hours. We make a sincere, genuine, constructive offer. Are we doing this badly? And stubbornness doesn't make a law by the logic of a saint. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mayor, if you'll just give me one more minute, I'll say hello.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0091par0043	Of course I'll give you an extra minute.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0089par0044	There is no resistance with the nation, with the law, with the Constitution. We're also trying to understand the government. The government's demands may have problems with the Director General of the Forest, the DSI may have problems, but there is a solution. The solution to this is consultation, compromise, or else this law will crawl in this House, and I say it's no good to anyone, and I salute the High General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0091par0047	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Congressmans, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Date 24/11/2016 (2/1481) is the main no. Since the forty-five-day waiting period has been completed according to Article 37 of our law proposal, I'd like to ask you to consider the need for a direct agenda. İstanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Yölter will speak as the bidder. Here you go, Mr. Orender. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0092par0061	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On November 15, 2016, we proposed an amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and the Specialist Gendarme Law. In our proposal for this law, we asked that it be corrected by the fact that the military training period of officers and petty officers at the military school and the military training period at the university of applied sciences was not counted by the fact that the year before the arrival of the veterans had not been considered a term of actual service. Secondly, we've taken it to Parliament's agenda, where we've proposed that our veteran gendarmes be raised to the age of 28 to 45, so that they can move on to a higher status, as a petty officer.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0093par0065	Congressmans, could we have a moment of silence, please?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0092par0066	My dear friends, this is very important, this is very important, this is also about our beka and our tens of thousands of expert sergeants who are listening to us right now. Now, when we asked the veterans to consider the year before the arrival of a year's training period as an actual service period, we also asked that the age of moving to a higher status be increased to 45. The 28-year-old decree of the 680th Law has risen to the 28-year-old age of 28-year-olds, the age written in the law, and 45 of our demands have not been fulfilled. We believe that it must be made absolutely, absolutely. Today we celebrate the 173rd anniversary of our Turkish police force. With all due respect, I salute our officers. The age we need for our cops to go upstate, for example, 45 in the law. Well, why not 45 of our veteran carabinieri? What is the obstacle to that? Why shouldn't we remove this barrier? Why don't we all go with the law? Our expert carabinieris want their school to be counted as operational service, so let's all make sure of that. Second, let's get this out of the age required for them to ascend to a higher status -- that is, it was replaced by the Law Code 680 -- they want it to go up to 45, they want it removed. In addition, my dear friends, our expert carabinieri, members of the Turkish Armed Forces, along with the special sergeants. They want their additional indicators to go up to 3,600, so let's get them all together. Furthermore, our special sergeants are currently fighting heroically in Afrin, abroad and abroad -- the precious group chair of the Justice and Development Party had promised us -- that we would all put our special sergeants on loan at Law 3269, under contract to be employed by the people's will, the Veterans Assembly. My dear friends, shall we remain silent to our special sergeants, our veteran gendarmes? Should we be insensitive to their demands of rights? Right now, they're fighting in stone on the mountain, in the country, in the country, fearless and heroic. Well, with all the fighting, all the sacrifice, can we just stop talking about it? Should we still insist on giving these brothers their rights? Here, I beg you, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, let's make the demands of our veteran gendarmes which I've just listed within the framework of the law proposal I gave in November 2016, let's extend our hands to our expert gendarmes and shoulder them.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0094par0075	I'll give you one more minute. Here you go, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0092par0077	And sons of Anatolian; let us take our heroic sergeants, who sacrificed their lives for the nation, for the state, for the flag, for the beka, for the blood, and let us all do it together. In front of history, in front of the people, in the presence of the apocalypse, let's do it in peace, my dear friends. As the National Movement Party, we're in, we're in, we're in, we're in, and we're applying for your will; it's your decision, it's yours. Right now, our special sergeants, our veteran gendarmes, are watching us, following us. I salute you all, thank you. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0095par0081	Thank you, Mr. Orender.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0096par0082	Mr. President, can you make a promise?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0095par0083	Mr. Bostanci, before we vote on the motion, I promise you one minute from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0096par0087	Mr. President, thank you. The Ministry of National Defence is conducting a study on the military's expert staff, including the proposal offered by Mr. Ölöter, according to the Civil Code 37. The issues offered here will certainly be taken into consideration in this study. He'll come to the House when he's done. So I'd like to point out that we don't think it's appropriate for this proposal to be approved in such a manner within the framework of Civil Code 37 at this time. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0097par0090	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the agenda "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will begin negotiations with the Law on the State Waterworks General Directorate's Office and with the Law on the Decisions of Some Laws and Laws, which will be ranked 1st, and with the Report of the Forestry and Village Affairs Commission. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 548 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, according to the decision made. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Adana MP Muharrem Varlı will speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr Varli. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0098par0108	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's Police Day. I'm celebrating Police Day for all of our cops. I ask God's mercy for the martyrs and for our veterans to heal quickly. While this law was being discussed in the Commission, we had expressed the necessary contributions and objections. Some were taken into account, some were ignored. For him, there's something wrong with what we're all talking about, what we're missing, and we're going to share them with you. The main purpose of this law was to collect and water the fields, but so many substances were added, so there was another bag of legislation. Inside of this, there was a lot of material, for example, about protecting farming goods from firearms, about forest, about the cadastro, about the city cadastro, and about the removal of irrigation troops. So there came to be a lot of articles here that we could actually agree to, that we could all agree to, that we could all support, that we could take the law on collecting and watering the fields to a completely different level, and unfortunately, we would have objections, and we would have our motions in a few minutes. Now, a few of the articles we object to were taken out of the draft text by our Commissioner and Minister of the Ministry officials. And we thank you for that, but unfortunately, they ignored a few very important items that we object to, and they ignored them, and they're going to continue negotiations on the materials that we're about to begin with. There are very important ingredients that concern the farmer, which concern the general population. I'll continue to share these with you as soon as it's my turn. Now, there's a substance that has something to do with the protection of farming goods; it's a positive substance. He didn't have much to do with the farmer because they were doing things to protect the farmer's property, not protecting the farmer's property, but protecting themselves. So it's important that protecting the farmer's goods is left to the farmer's authority, so it's important that the farmer contributes to it if he wants to, in favor of the farmer, to the peasant's benefit, and in that sense, we find it positive. Again, there's the formation of irrigation co-ops in this bill. We're setting up irrigation co-ops and leaving the DSI in charge, but we're also removing the law-free irrigated watering units, unfortunately. Now, while we're doing it on one side, we're washing it on the other. I mean, this isn't right, guys. It would have been much more effective and much more accurate if we had been able to actually survive both of them together. Again, the additional 11 and the additional 12 of the 8th article. I've objected to that in the Commission, and I'm bringing up my objection here. The 8th article needs to be removed from the text, including the 11th and the 12th article. That's how I'm going to deliver our motion. Why? Because there's one thing that's open enough to make it to privatisation. We need to make this legal, or these texts need to be removed from Articles 11 and additional 12. Now, it says that if the irrigation forces lose their corporate personality, they can be operated to the city municipalities, if not on the border of the city's municipality, by the district municipalities, or even by the DSI. What does that mean? This is an opening that can lead to the privatisation of the irrigation troops. Thus, we need to remove the additional 11 and additional 12th items from this text, or by law we need to make a new arrangement. Therefore, we also object to the additional 11 and additional 12th articles. Now, my dear friends, the irrigation troops, you know, established by law to do things that the DSI can't do. When these were established, without a penny from the government, the chair, the table, not even from the government, was built with its own resources, with the resources of the villagers, and so far, the machine has completed its supply, it has completed its staff, and it has had a very important experience, so far. These are the institutions that served in our farmer's favor. Now, with this bill, we will remove the irrigation troops and transfer the irrigation troops to the DSI, or we will transfer them to the city municipalities, and we will issue an open-ended law until privatisation. So I want to point out that none of this is true. See how the heads of irrigation troops are elected? First, delegates from the farmers in the villages are identified by the polls, or through the chiefs, by the majority of their land, 3, 5, 6 delegates are identified. These delegates choose the council of watering troops and the heads of irrigation troops in the election. Thus, a parliament and the chairman of the irrigation union, which was involved in the village and the farmer and was elected to do so by their choice. Now, on the one hand, they look out for the interests of the watering company, and on the other hand, they look out for the farmer's interests so they don't sink the watering company. So neither skewer burns, nor kebab burns, nor does he victimize the farmer as he sets the charges, nor does he make the right decision at the point where the irrigation troops do not damage them. Look, folks, the decisions that have been made so far have all been in the farmer's favor. So, I'd like to give you one example: the Lokman Nursing Association in Adana, the Misis, the DSI, is being removed, currently running the DSI. Look, the irrigation price by the corn is $150, my dear friends. Look, bottom line is, it's $150. I'd like to share with you that the watering troops on the plain priced $32 on an acre of corn. There's a five-story difference. So this is going to be something that's completely growing against the farmer. So our objection is that the farmer is not victimized, that the farmer is protected, that the man who produces it is protected. Or else a lot of things came up about the heads of irrigation troops. Sir, they're living in luxury, they're spending this much money when the election's been made. Then do we have to eliminate the chiefs as well? The mayors spend a lot of money. Then do we have to eliminate the mayors as well? It's not the right approach. Our point of view is to protect the farmer, make sure the farmer doesn't get hurt. I speak to the conscience of all my fellow AK PARTY members, and to the conscience of the President of the Commission, I speak to the Ministry's conscience: Let's revisit and reevaluate the issue of these irrigation troops. Now, we said, in the Commission, let's set a criteria, eliminate those who have failed, close these; amenna, we have no objection. If the chief of the irrigation unit is working in his own pocket, if the chief of the irrigation unit is running the irrigation unit incorrectly, if there's anything against the farmer, let's shut down the watering company, but if the watering union heads and irrigation troops have achieved success on a criteria, if they've collected their debts, if they can pay their debts, if they can pay their debt, if the machine has completed their supply, if they can pay their staff's wages. Let's go after those who failed. The State Water Affairs has that authority, and the current law has that authority. And there's no need to make a law, but Mr. Secretary has insisted on bringing it up, insisting that, at the point of end and end of this business, unfortunately, his friends in his group have forced it, so we are now in your presence discussing this law. Now, if a farmer's field road is to be arranged in his territory, he sends the grapefruit; if a farmer's canal is blocked, if he has to open it, he sends JCB; if a farmer, a peasant's relative - God will give it to him -- he sends JCB to his grave; so he sends his truck, he sends a grave, he sends a grave, or he sends a miracleer to the funeral owner's house, and then he sends it. Now, the irrigation troops, as they serve themselves, also serve other services of the peasant and the farmer. And in this respect, it's important that the irrigation troops survive. Well, now, Mr. Minister says: "We will remove the heads of the irrigation unit, so we will appoint an officer to replace him when his corporate personality is finished." When there is no water at twelve o'clock at night, my farmer friend calls the chief of the watering company and calls him at 3:00 a.m. and reaches him; the chief of the irrigation unit, or by his staff, tries to solve the water shortages in that area, or by his own hand, at least. So, how do I get to the officer you're going to appoint -- eight o'clock in the morning, five o'clock in the morning -- where do I get to the grand toilet? For God's sake, somebody explain this to me. Now, right now, you're acting in good faith, and I want to accept it that way, and I want to think that you mean well. If a malicious person comes into charge tomorrow, assigns evil-minded men here, I'm not giving you water, brother. Then how do we solve this, Mr. Secretary? So there's a lot going on here, and there's a lot going on against the farmer. Again, there are now three types of staff members of the watering company, one staff, the other contractor, the other subcontractor he uses as subcontractor. Now, how are you going to get these into the DSI; which ones are you going to get, which ones aren't you going to get? None of this is in the law. He says, "Personal," but it's not clear which personnel to take, how to take, and who to take. So there's a bill here that puts the staff in trouble and doesn't determine the status of the staff. My dear friends, look, the staff and general secretaries of the irrigation troops have experienced the presidents; they take precautions in which areas there may be no failures, where there may be water shortages, and where there may be water shortages. In the middle of summer... look, I'm a farmer, and I'm a man who understands. And while you're saying that, please don't take this the wrong way, I'm speaking to your conscience. You'll be three days late in Egypt, you'll lose at least 500 kilos, five days late in cotton, at least 100 kilos, 150 kilos of damage. It's the farmer's loss and the national economy. The irrigation began in Adana, and now the irrigation has begun in Adana. So, when will your appointed officer start, when will he follow this water business? Come on, tomorrow's the day after tomorrow, at the most important time, when corn is dusting, if there's a shortage of water, who's going to pay for it if this farmer loses 300 kilos, 500 kilos on the turnpike? So, we're already getting corn from the outside, so we're going to get that by importing it from the outside? For him, Mr. Secretary, this law is not the right law. We need to review this law, bring it to the Commission, and reassess it in the Commission. We've also heard that our President has some sensitivity to the matter. If only we had the opportunity to tell the President, I believe we could convince Mr. President of this, but I believe it's not as we say it is, Mr. President. I don't think he'd have said yes, something that might have been against the farmer, something that the farmer might have been a victim of. So let's take this law back to the Commission, renegotiate it, renegotiate it, and bring it back to the agenda that might be in the farmer's favor to the peasant. Now, the farmer's situation is already in the middle, friends, so the price of diesel is gone, the price of fertilizer is gone. By the time the farmer started the harvest, he somehow couldn't sell his product at any price with the import of wheat, corn, cotton imports. Therefore, when the farmer is in such a great strait, when he himself has not been able to overcome these difficulties, we face a shortage of new loans every day, sir, as the Agriculture Bank does not have enough time to go from the Seabank to try and get loans from other banks, and if he suffers from loss of goods because of these irrigating companies, and if he suffers major damage, God preserves, the farmer can't produce, and the farmer can't cross the tars again. Look, I'm telling you again, to the consciences of my dear AK PARTY friends, especially my dear friends who are on the Commission: So if you're satisfied with this, if you're not really satisfied with these complaints, if these problems don't come to you, let's all work together. But I believe that these troubles and complaints are being delivered to you, and you're not very happy about it. But I mean, somehow it's coming, it's passing, so there's no way to figure it out. I, for her, propose that we renegotiate this law with the Commission, dear friends. Look, again, there's a very important substance here. So the staff who will be taken to the DSI or the Ministry will be interviewed. It's a very different practice than any other ministry. In this regard, the Constitutional Court had been applied in the past and the Constitutional Court had rejected it. Now such an arrangement is being brought back. That's not true. It's a violation of human equality. I mean, what does interviewing mean? So it wouldn't be the right app. So this has to be arranged. When we were saying this in the Commission, we told our friends to do this because we saw these facts, and because we saw these complaints that people brought to us. Otherwise, it's not our personal idea. Here the peasants, farmers, farmers; they're all looking for us, they say: "Oh, my God! Again, again, again, let's ask our friends to review it, because there's trouble, there's trouble. So right now, there are more than 1,500 chiefs in the assembly of these irrigation troops, over 1,500 chiefs. So, friends, chefs, farmers, peasants, everyone is uncomfortable with this law, and the forest villagers are uncomfortable with it. Let's get this law back to the Commission, get these anti-contractions out. The stuff after that is what we'll all agree to. Which one of us objects to the collection? Sir, Mr. Secretary's bringing in the collection. Who among us can object to the watering of the field? Which one of us can object to wild watering? But now that you're here, while you're doing it beautifully, on the other hand, the farmer could be against... For example, the Minister of Agriculture said in the Commission, "I am opposed to these debts being paid to the farmer." But you brought them to the law. I'm calling to Mr. Minister of Agriculture here: these loans must not be deducted from the farmer's premiums. You didn't give irrigation troops that opportunity. Now maybe you'll privatize it, maybe you'll transfer it to a private agency, but you give them that opportunity. I mean, to be honest, if the farmer's bonus fund was in the bank, he'd cut it right off, he'd get paid. Oh, what a great job! That's not gonna happen. We don't think that's true. This is all wrong. All of this needs to be fixed. We need to protect the man, the farmer and the peasant who made it. Every time I tell you, you sat down for breakfast. Your cucumber, tomatoes, olives, cheese, even bread, all of which are made by farmers, my dear friends. If we can't protect the farmer... we need 23 million tons of wheat; we need 3.5 million tons of dead cotton, we need 6 million tons of corn, and we're going to have to import it all? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0099par0137	Well, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0098par0138	So like our German economy, I wish we had Mercedes, BMW, even if we could sell them somewhere else, but our biggest source, our biggest input, is selling the farmer's production somewhere else, dear friends. Cari is the only institution that doesn't give away, so we have to protect the farmer and the manufacturer. We don't find this law right in this way, and in favor of the farmer and the peasant, I say we will oppose this law, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0099par0140	Thank you, Mr Varli. Our Minister Veysel Eroglu has come to us again, and we wish him health again. Welcome.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0100par0145	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0099par0146	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. You have a voice request.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0101par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, editors of the daily Libertarian Democracy, Reyhan Hadjioğlu, Mehmet Ali Çelebi and newspaper worker Pınar Tarrak were unfortunately arrested, while Ramazan Sola was released with judicial control. Last week, 22 people were arrested, including 26 newspaper employees and printers, all of the owners and printers of the newspaper. We find this decision absolutely unacceptable, and we want to make it very clear that these arrest warrants have no legal basis; it's a crucial blow to freedom of the press. Furthermore, the arrest of 20 people for publishing a Kurdish grammar book has once again revealed the government's double standard policy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0102par0154	Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0101par0155	In the last election, there was actually an application that we strongly criticised: the use of religion in politics. The Qur'an was introduced in Kurdish rally squares, but 20 printers were arrested because of the Kurdish grammar book published today. And I want to say that this is a double standard. Finally, on the trip to Afghanistan yesterday, I would like to stress again that there was only one woman on the official visit, and unfortunately, she was a woman from the delegation in Afghanistan. That's another name for the absence of women in the bureaucracy and the state elite. I'd like to say that we find this photograph very grave, that we find it unacceptable. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0103par0158	Thank you. Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0104par0165	Mr. President and Mr. General Assembly, I salute you. That's where I celebrate World Roman Day, in their native language. Again, this is where I celebrate the Spring Day and the Resurrection Day of the Assyrians. In the same way, I would like to celebrate this festival in Syria, Syria, the language of Jesus Christ, which is now the language of the Suryanites:........ [[x]] Again, friends, of course, I will talk about the bill, but before that, I would like to transfer to you a serious event that is now in Adana: some student homes and family homes have been sealed off as the education homes of the Furkan Foundation, and both students and families have been left out, unfortunately. Friends, these images are not images of our immigrant brothers and sisters in Syria. Look, unfortunately, the students have to sleep outside at night, and some of them can get their stuff out of the house, and some of them can't even get their stuff out of the house because their house is sealed. Again, girls should read. Many women have to spend the night outside because their homes are sealed. I'm afraid this has been going on for a week since last Thursday. Again, the newlyweds, who got married eight months ago -- I won't name them for harm -- and they've sealed the house of a family whose wife is four and a half months pregnant, and they've had to sleep outside for how many nights, unfortunately, that's bad for the baby, too. Of course, we're going to keep screaming about these atrocities from here. I would like to remind you that if you cannot prevent a persecution, at least announce it to everyone and expose it. Again, when you see evil, the Prophet has commanded you to intervene with your hand, if you cannot afford it, with your tongue, and with your heart. And I'm telling you about this cruelty which is now in the office of execution, that you remove this persecution; it is the duty of power. Look, guys, I'm not talking without a license. To themselves, to the students, to the families, to evacuate the houses. The day after the notification, interested students and families apply for governorship, and the governorship directs them to Çukurova County National Education Directorate. The District National Education Directorate -- it says here, I can also present to our Minister -- is not related to the Furkan Education Foundation, it is a residence, it is a home. No sealing will be performed. The next day, the police raid and seal the houses, even though he gave them written documents. Friends, of course we're going to talk about the relevant bill. It's very important. The Agriculture, Forest and Village Affairs Commission passed this study from March 15, 2018 to April 4, 2018. Of course, it's not just one area, it's many areas. There are many topics, such as massification of agricultural land, disbanding of water troops, setting up underground warehouses in forest areas. This bill, which envisions radical changes in agriculture, forest and water, has not been applied to the views of vocational rooms, associations, NGOs and academics in almost no way, and the bill has not been discussed enough in public. Likewise, because he came to the Commission at the last moment, even on the last day, the articles were added, and lawmakers, especially the opposition, even the ruling lawmakers, had no time to reason or reason. The existence and protection of water, soil and forests is vital to the lives of all living things. In decisions related to these, the laws to be adopted and those practices need to be very thorough and assess the possible consequences. But the massing of farmland, the dissolution of water units, the building of underground warehouses in the forest, not just today, but our future, our future generations, and all the future generations in the country -- whether it's water, or forest -- is the destruction of wealth, I'm afraid, with this bill. Ecosystems, water, forest, meras, shores must not be used or protected except by the needs of the people. Our party against ecological, cultural, cultural, social destruction projects and policies will continue to defend the air, water, streams, seas, lakes, land, forests, basically everything that belongs to our areas of life and life. Again, unfortunately, water, water basins, land, forest, ecosystems are being commercialized. I mean, these arrangements are being made for someone's benefit. Its vineyard, its garden, its fields, its people's right to live, its habitats, and its properties can also be seized. The farmer's right of livelihood will also be ignored. The land is consolidated to industrial agriculture, where land is seized by massing, fields, vineyards, gardens. The democratic mass organization, which is run by farmers, is privatised by watering troops, depriving farmers. It will disable the farmer's livelihoods, seize his land, and thus open the way for the production of GMO products. Again, with HES licenses and water rights contracts distributed over the rivers, the right of Anatolia, Mesopotamia, and rivers everywhere in Thrace have been quickly transferred to companies for forty-nine years over the past few years. The right of use of natural areas to companies is not only metamorphizing water, but also commercializing water basins. Agriculture and livestock cannot be tied to the decisions of the DSI and a authorized company. The DSI, companies, and the Ministry, which is owned by the DSI, cannot be authorized. The living spaces where people live and live cannot be confiscated. This law, which envisions the legalization of the use of companies, must not be passed. Against the Constitution itself, against human rights contracts, and more importantly, against the laws of nature itself. Water is to be sold, even though the cost of operating is being tried to avoid it under the name of the operation, the main thing is to sell the rain and water of God to the people. So far, look, guys, DEDAS, electricity production has been transferred to private in this way. What happened? Again, the public, the citizen, the farmer, has been damaged, and thus, the country's economy is being damaged. Look, ten days ago, we were at Kızıltepe. For ten days, the electricity was out, and the crops were yellow, and the earth was cracked. I personally went to the area. What did our citizen do? He had to feed his own animals in areas that were no longer useful, so he tried to use those crops that were at least destroyed, and nearly 2 million acres of land were destroyed like this a week ago. Of course, a week ago, the last of the photos that came in were like this, and the last of the guys that came in, they must have gone up to 600 thousand, 1 million. Why? Because electricity is, in fact, a basic need, almost like air and water, according to modern technology. You get up and privatize it, he gives you a ticket, cuts off the power whenever he wants. Here are the crops, and that's how our farmer suffers. Yesterday, in the village of Virgo, Sınara, of Kızıltepe, DEDAŞ officials went and wanted to cut the power, and it is interesting, while the power, unfortunately, gives them authority to cut off the power of the citizen by giving the order of the military and police to DEDAŞ. Yeah, that's not gonna happen. So the government also assigns law enforcement to them to go and cut off their electricity so that the crops may be dried up when the government should be serving in this sense, so that's the mercy of the hand. In particular, this is the first article, envisioning the creation of massive turbines for the solar energy system that will be built on water supply and basins and around it. These turbines will cause thousands of tons of debris to spill over these fields, pollution of air, soil, and water, and negative impact on living organisms underground and above ground. It is a big problem that there is no need for even a report of environmental impact assessments in such an arrangement, which is at risk of dissolution of the region's habitat and ecosystem.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0105par0185	Mr. Aslan, may I have your attention, please? I'll add your time. Members of parliament, Mr. Sooronbay Ceenbekov and his delegation, along with Mr. Ismail Kahraman, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have arrived at our General Assembly. On behalf of our presidential council and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, "Welcome." I'm saying. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Lion. I'll add your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0106par0197	We welcome them. Thank you, thank you. Again, the ministry's request and the decision of the Council of Ministers, which is owned by the FDSI in Article 2, can be carried out by the request of the Ministry of Ministers or within-field development services, without a request or a search for the guardianship of the property. The decree has been issued. This substance recognizes the authority to seize the land without the consent of a DSI farmer. The DSI will be able to make a tender sale to major corporations by seizing the farmer's land under that authority. Again, the operation of the water basin is made available to real and corporate individuals -- matter 7 ▪. It's given to farmers by companies and private individuals by water supply and water basins that the farmer needs with DSI approval. Adding the relevant material, water basins and resources are privatised into the monopoly of companies, so what does the government, which is sort of your people, do? He transfers the interests of the people to the corporations, and the interests of the people to a few rich people, a few astronomical figures to those who are rich. And the proof of that is that I'm not going to name names, but in the last two years, only four major corporations have received 5.5 quadrillion tax pardons with old money. Five and a half quadrillion means a million people get $5,500 in their pocket. But look, 3,000 farmers in Kızıltepe -- which is a debt written on a desk -- otherwise it's not a debt that's actually been dealt with -- have 180 trillion tax debts, electric debt. They're not forgiven, they're not deleted, but they're deleting 5.5 quadrillion of four companies. Why do you choose the interests of four people over the interests of 3,000 people? That's what the public is asking, and he's right to ask, and we're asking from here on behalf of our people. Again, the 11th article is subject to debt of farmers under the name of education and business fees. The DSI will also collect these fees from farmers and pay them to private and corporate individuals. In a way, the government will also collect private and corporate individuals. Just like when TEDAS officials go and cut electricity in villages, it's now the same kind of authority that law enforcement is being given to them. So what we're going to understand, folks, is that the peasants, the farmers, the private corporations are going to have their fun. It's a violation of conscience, and it's a violation of international contract and natural law, as we say. Engineers are subject to political and subjective evaluations, as well as their written examinations to staff members -- as we see now in the appointment of teachers and officers. That's how they'll be kept. However, it is based on merit that the appointment of personnel should be made. Let's get to the part about the trustee. Although its name is not Kayium, in practice, it is officially a trusteeal practice in verbia. All of the 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, are related, removing the corporate personality of irrigation units, and the democratic participant is aimed at changing the governing structure of the union. Currently, there are 378 irrigation units, with 14.484 council members elected by the Supreme Election Board. The president of the Union and its organs are elected by farmers who are members of the Union. Instead, the board of directors of the Union and the board of directors of the Union will be appointed by the DSI, the public staff, or trustees, by means of a democratic, participatory management understanding, and instead by autocratic administration. You've seen the practice of trustees, and so far you've removed more than ten trustees. Some of them are corrupt, some of them, and some of the trustees are now out of office. Last week, trustees in the district of Ömerli and Dargekit were suspended. That won't be any different. We call it a democratic, participatory structure, and in practice, unfortunately, it's an autocratic government. The farmer can answer to the president of the watering union he's chosen, and the president will feel compelled to answer, which he is, but right now, the officers have no such sensitivity, no such concern, and we can see it from the work of some institutions. It's antidemocratic, and on the contrary, it's supposed to evolve into a more participatory form, but it's a huge blow to those farmers, the people and democracy, to not recognize the farmer's will.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0107par0205	Wait a minute. I'll give you an extension. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0106par0207	We'd like to take this last minute to our Burcu Steel Özkan MP who was sentenced the other day. Unfortunately, he has been given seven years and three months in prison, unfairly, unlawfully. Friends, as independent as you say, you don't believe it either. Because according to the existing law, it's already wrong, according to the existing law, which can't be punished. If the judiciary is independent, if there is no interference from power, then the judiciary does not recognise the will of the Assembly at this time, because according to the Constitution, which has come out of this place, it does not judge according to the laws that come out of this place. So we see that even peace talks are being punished as part of terrorist organization propaganda. For example, even a criticism of Alparslan Kuytul is part of organization propaganda and is currently in solitary confinement. I extend my regards to them and to all our arrested MPs. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0108par0211	Thank you, Mr. Lion. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, they will speak for Mr. Kamil Okyay Sindır. Here you go, Mr. Lander.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0109par0215	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the entire Constitutional Law Charter for the amendments to certain Laws and Laws in accordance with State Water Affairs General Directorate No. 548. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to convey my wishes to all members of the force to celebrate the 173/year anniversary of our organization, but I would like to stress in particular that the 3600 additional indicators are being given to them, as well as to improvements in the workdays, weekends, sports practices, as well as on weekdays, weekends, sports events, that our police officers are tirelessly asking us to make demands that the lives and property safety of our police officers who are always at risk be improved in their rights, and, of course, be granted them 3600 additional indicators, as well as to do overtime practices, to be improved during weekends and shifts. Dear friends, we have a bill of law ahead of us again. I don't want to make a criticism of the law and I don't want to take the time to do so, but we're dealing with a bill in very different laws, which envisions a change in the law over 30, and when you look at each item, really, in the name of our production, in the name of our farmer, in the name of our agriculture sector, and in the name of some of the other things that are added to the law -- some of the outside of the law -- our country's economy is very important to our future. However, before coming to the Commission's agenda, I would like to point out that I also consider it a particular problem that NGOs, democratic mass organisations, occupational organisations, interests, universities and other concerned public institutions and organisations have been brought to the Commission and our Parliament's agenda before their efforts to find better ideas without having their opinions taken, with a common mind. I would also like to point out that this bill, which comes to the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission as its current commission, goes to the Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission, the Environment Commission and the Interior Commission, and that there are no reports from these Tali commissions, so they don't need to comment on the bill. Dear friends, although this bill offers a number of amendments to the law, it carries a number of fundamental issues, especially in the name of our country's economy, farmers, forests, natural beings and futures, and very important, troubled materials on the ecosystem that include our forests. First of all, I would like to point out that many of the issues that have been brought with these regulations -- particularly the collection of land and field development services, the control of watering coops over 2,500, the supervision of the 378 watering union, will be appointed by the DSI, as my friend just pointed out -- are trying to be managed by some kind of trustee appointment and, of course, many more issues related to the forests -- are beyond the administrative and personnel capacity of our forest ministry and the State Department of Waters. Now, dear friends, in this bill of law -- I want to state this specifically -- there's land collection, there's field development services, there's an effort to get municipalities to fight forest fires, there's a process of hiring and hiring -- which directly concerns the affairs of the interior ministry and municipalities -- there's a process of water use, the service of distribution, there's an exchange of the law, there's an amendment in the Law of Forests; there's a change in the development of our forests, there's a struggle to get them out of forest fires, and there's a disbursement in the general budget, there's a change in the general budget, there's an amendment to the public law, there's an amendment to the law. Now, this one in particular... the Minister is here. I told them in an environment with our Minister of Agriculture and both. In fact, it's not as if our Department of Food, Agriculture and Animalism... not that I claim it is, but these regulations suggest that this is what it is. Our Ministry of Agriculture can't do its job well, has failed to collect the land. Although irrigation units are in the hands of our Ministry of Forests and Waterworks, he is unable to provide field development; he is unable to manage watering co-ops, general boards, etc. So, who does all this? Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. I mean, from a government ministry, he can't do it, he can't manage it, he can't perform an active task. Let this ministry do so. I would like to point out that the idea is not acceptable. Of course, laws, decrees in the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law of law, the state with the rule of law, the public's general interests, the text that maintains society's order and maintains the natural-human balances, while here there are regulations to destroy nature, privatisation practices, and regulations to protect the order of exploitation and the law of the superior. This is a bill that opens the way for our natural beings -- to be used for politics and trade -- and it's a design that regulates the metamorphization of our water and natural beings, our trees, including our bowing trees, which is basically a shame. This bill is a declaration that eliminates democracy, self-government, localisation and decentralisation and decentralisation. This bill shows that because the irrigation troops and co-ops are not actually mismanaged, but because it's well-run, and because it's someone's eye is in our saintly resources, such as water, through water, through irrigating troops and cooperatives, it seems that this order comes in accordance with the demand of those who have eyes in these waters, for privatisation, for commercialization of these areas, for those who desire to make water and forests into meta. Look, my dear friends, one of the most important issues of the bill is the irrigation troops. There are 378 irrigation units in our country. I'm going to turn over the government waterworks water company report. The situation of the irrigation units has been analysed, and 19 of these irrigation units, as of the number of the 378 irrigation units, are very successful in their status, 5 per cent; 109 at successful status; 29 per cent at a good level; 133% at 35 per cent; 92 at a medium level, 24 per cent; only 17 and only 1 precious friends described as bad, 5 per cent. I mean, it's like burning a blanket for fleas. In the analysis report of the State Waterworks, 378 of the United States, 17 of them can't be ruled because they're bad. The Minister will say it's not liquidation, but it's liquidation of irrigation troops. Union administrations are to be removed from the idea of democratic governance, which is participatory. They will be elected by the High Election Board and handed over their organs to the relevant department of the state and will be left under the supervision and control of an officer who can be referred to as trustee and trustee. And the fact that that the officer -- very clearly -- is able to decide by being influenced by the government's political policies -- is sometimes recognised for the possibility of handing over these troops to municipalities, and is being handed over to the desired municipality for a political purpose, in order not to be transferred to the unwanted municipality, is being used to water companies and water trade and politics that I have just told. Again, in this report of State Water Affairs, there's a ratio called "efficiency/rights ratio." In these units, a claim is presented over the water used by the manufacturer who uses water, expressing how much of it has been collected. Look, when it was 49 percent in 1999, it was 51 percent in 2006, 64 percent in 2015, 68 percent in 2016, so why did it bother these troops when there was a constant improvement, improvement, and the ratio of those troops is not good? The main reason this collection/rights rate is low is because, dear friends, we also see that our areas, which have a much lower average of collection and due rate in Turkey, are mainly areas where grain agriculture is made more densely and nadas practices continue. So production revenues can't pay because they can't afford to pay, not because they can't, not because they can't, not because they can't go on vacation, not because they can't afford it because of the height of their production costs, or because they can't pay for it because they can't pay for it, because they're more dense, higher industrial plants are also loyal to the money of farmers who use water in areas that use water, and in their own union, they've done it very well with the power of their president, the council and the board of directors. So why are they suddenly coming to us with a bill of law and demand changes? It's not acceptable. See, again, the budget values of these troops: 538 million, 278 thousand in revenues; 512 million, 473,000 in total; almost with an equivalent budget, no profit-making, no interest in providing their investments as water, watering facilities, and free from political interference because of election. These troops... I'm asking the Minister to withdraw this bill, please. I'm asking the ruling party to withdraw this bill. Instead, I suggest you... do you know how much of the Southeast Anatolia Project -- the GAP project -- the GAP project, which was built in 1989, has been opened to watering 1.8 million hectares of land, the GAP project, which we boastly boasted about -- the Integrated Rural Development Project -- has been completed today for agricultural watering? We know that the hydroelectric power plants are complete and produce electricity at 100 percent. So, how much of the agricultural irrigation investments have been made, how much of them are in business? I'll give you a number right away, as of the end of 2017, I'll tell you the number I received from the report of the GAP Regional Development Administration's operational report: 546.345 hectares of 1.8 million hectares are being watered. Construction of 197,969 hectares is under way. So, do you know how much of the 1.8 million hectares are still in the planning phase? More than 1 million hectares are still in the planning stage. My dear friends of GAP irrigation projects, 30.4% complete. I'm taking water to the farmer's field. We think that there'll be order to put a meter on that counter that will allow even a drop of water to be free of charge -- which we're going to have to go through with the idea of democratic governance, a participant in order to use water best, best for profit purposes -- but we also have to see that 70 percent of the GAP region is still in the planning stage, and we have to go over it. Of course, this law is not only about watering troops, it's about watering co-ops. There are 2,500 irrigation co-ops within the Ministry of Agriculture, which have audits, audits, oversights, general boards are being held by the Ministry's organization, with the support of county and borough agencies, which have a large organization spread throughout all of Turkey's districts, and as a result of the transfer of them to State Waterworks, what administrative structure and administrative organization will the State Waters have to do, oversee, oversee, monitor, oversee? This is a task far above capacity, a responsibility. The removal of this responsibility from the Department of Agriculture and the transfer of it to State Water Affairs... the land collection, yes, the government's Waterworks' ability to do so, it is clear that it will create a situation far above the capacity of State Water Affairs. Now, dear friends, these areas, by the permission of the Ministry, can be removed out of the forest, and could be homes, based on the concept of public interest, based on the principle of public interest, based on the idea of where the public benefit is, where there is a definition of where the public benefit is in law. Look, dear friends, in the forest, on the edge of the forest, on the edge, or outside, there is no area that does not carry the quality of the forest. The fact that he's carrying the quality of the forest here doesn't necessarily have an obelisk on him, so he might grow another planted tree there tomorrow. Even in the present situation, it is required to view it as the area of flora, fauna, and biodiversity. Opening these areas to housing sites means building here, which means putting these areas into industry and trade, which means destroying these areas, destroying them. This causes a dissolution to the forests as well. Mr. Secretary, we're going to plant trees twice as much as this, three times as elsewhere, it doesn't matter. Why do you think that? I'm also asking the Minister, twice as much as you can plant your trees, three times as many, no one holding your hands, so let's all come in together, plant them together, but don't take them out of the jungle, and don't open the way for the destruction of even a square inch of our forests. In this sense, of course, this brings with it a set of practices, regulations, which violate the relevant articles of the Constitution, 169, 170, and 171. Dear friends, this bill of law is not only that. Here, outside of the irrigation units, allowing underground warehouses in these forests... look, the expression in the dam basins is lifted from the law, so even in the dam basins, these forest-related businesses are allowed to be allowed, even in the dam basins, into underground warehouses. It can be said: these places, these warehouses, for fruit and agricultural products, are underground storage for this purpose. Well, then let's define it into the law, let's put it in a net. Fruit, vegetables, agricultural... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll finish.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0110par0239	Mr. Fit, complete, please.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0109par0240	...for food and agricultural products to be stored on the basis of the law. I would also like to express further concerns: Is the provision of any substance that is open to these underground warehouses to store all kinds of materials, such as dangerous waste -- including the waste of the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant -- a material provision that will pave the way for it to be stored tomorrow? Yes, it is; it allows it because it doesn't provide a limitation. I want to make it very clear that the forest areas and the underground reservoirs under the dams are a serious threat, not only a disaster of the environment, but also a negative effect on underground water movements. This bill is not in the interest of our farmer, nor our country, nor our people, nor our nature; I want to point out that we are against it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0111par0245	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of him, Mr. Mehmet Ölturk, the MP of Hatay, will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Önturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0112par0250	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I've made a commitment to the State Water Department General's Law on the Agency and its duties and to amendments to certain Laws and Laws. Before I begin, I'm celebrating the 173rd anniversary of our police force. I give thanks and thanks to our martyrs, God's mercy, and to our veterans. Precious friends, with this bill, the need for the provision of our non-water-rich country's water resources to be added to its duties and powers to be planned, evaluated, and managed more effectively. With these provisions, the watering dam, the pond, and the irrigation facilities are given 33 billion TL support for our farmer. The bill has been authorized by the DSI to ensure that the agricultural irrigation facilities will be built to meet the need for electricity without being subject to the licensing limit. In this way, a revolutionary innovation is being made, such as the use of renewable energy sources to provide electricity for agricultural irrigation facilities. Again, complaints from water-using farmers in irrigation facilities run by irrigation units have been taken into account and arranged for the appointment of public personnel executives to the irrigation units and increased the control of these units and the irrigation facilities for our farmer's smooth service in the Law of Watering Units 6172. Under the arrangement, the union manager, the counter and all other employees' rights are maintained and their employment is continued. The board of the Union council and the board of audits are being dissolved and their responsibilities are being met under the leadership of the Union, and their decision-making processes are being made more efficient and faster. Thanks to the president of the union as a public official, our farmers' complaints about this will be removed by providing fair, equitable, sustainable, and quality services. The DSI will provide better services for the farmer, which will increase the institutional capacity of irrigation troops and support the means of vehicles and jobs. The rights and responsibilities of members of the Union will be cleared, and the use and protection of increasing strategic importance of water and land resources in the world will be disciplined. The dam, built by the DSI with the bill that we discussed, is being given up on the cost of building watering facilities such as ponds from our farmers, so that the cost in our farmers' production input will be reduced and their share of profits in products will be increased. One of the most important good news that we give our farmers is that for the first time, we bring support under the name of the tar and internal irrigation systems. Dear friends, with this law, there are also changes in land collection and field development services. During the period of our governments, the total collection of 5m64,280 hectares has been completed by the Agricultural Reform General Directorate, continuing to collect 1,782,458 hectares. Again, there are also studies of massing by the DSI in 70,569 hectares, and gathering in 342.023 hectares. As it turns out, the DSI is an institution that has had experience and has previously conducted collective work. It is thought that investments will become useful in a single-handed and fast manner. In order to establish the organization structure to run this business and operations, there have been three new heads of office. The problems stemming from the lack of inter-agency coordination and the waste of public resources will be eliminated. The cost of damage, loss and loss of goods for canals and pipe routes will soon be paid, preventing farmers' victims. Dear friends, the amendments to the amendments to the Publicisation Act will prevent the loss of the price paid to the citizens and prevent the state from confronting the citizens in the event that the legal cost of publicisation is reduced by the Court or by the Supreme Court. In refunds, negatives such as the expiration of agricultural production tools facing right-owners will be blocked. The regulations in the Law on Publicisation shall be provided with international standards, auditable, and rightful values for publicisation assessments. The Law on Publicisation decrees that non-refundable debts, which must be taken back, should be waived. This will prevent continued confrontations between the state and citizens and prevent many social problems and victims. This law will also ensure that subterranean water co-opters will be managed by the DSI, manage by the DSI, intervene in time for problems that are likely to be single-handed, the wells, pumps, and delays in the construction of irrigation networks will be avoided immediately. A sustainable subterranean water co-operative structure will be established. With the pardon of the savings of subterranean irrigation co-ops' $56m debt, the debt burden of irrigation co-ops will be reduced and the farmer's prosperity will be increased. Members of parliament, this law also registers 21 million animals, including about 6 million cattle annually, 15 million small animals in our country. With the change we will make, the price of earrings for 63 million Turkish liras per year will be provided by our Ministry to implement without cost from the growers. So the earring rate will increase, the registration rate will increase, and the monitoring of animal movements will be improved. At the same time, the price of the earring between animal owners and enforcers will be eliminated. Also under the provisions of Veterinary Services, Plant Health, Food and Food and Food Law 5996, the picture of professional groups authorized for official control will be used by water products engineer, food engineer, fishing technology engineer, and tobacco technology engineers. The commission rate, cut by 3.3 per thousand from seeding products, goods and services sales of the union members among subunive incomes, is dropped to 1 per thousand. In this way, it is estimated that the registration of activities in which sector organisation will take place will be easier and will increase revenues in the outcome of its members' activities. Dear friends, the forest arrangements aim to ensure the completion of the goal of the forest cadastro and simplify the structure of the cadastro commissions, to ensure the repair of the technical shortcomings encountered during the cadastro. Since forest cadastro commissions include an agricultural engineer, the commission is facilitated by eliminating the obligation of a representative member in the agricultural chamber to participate in the commission's framework and reducing bureaucratic procedures in the work. Under the arrangement, the process has been shortened by allowing objections to be made to the cadastro court. The non-responsibility system, which cannot be implemented in combating forest fires, is replaced by a voluntary system. As part of the fight against forest fires, vehicles that have the advantage of crossing the roads are also added to the material of the forest fires. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0113par0268	Complete, I'll give you an additional minute.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0112par0269	A provision has been made with the TRT that requires mandatory broadcasts under the names of national, regional and local television companies and radio stations, as well as warning and educational factors in protecting forest resources from irregular intervention, of course, from disasters, forest fires, and taking necessary precautions. The arrangement aims to fight forest fires more effectively and efficiently. Dear friends, this law makes important arrangements for Turkey's water shortages, for our farmer to get more serious revenues, for our forest villagers, for our forest citizens to have a more prosperous life. I wish you all the best of this law to our country, to our nation, to all of you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0114par0273	Thank you, Mr. Önturk. Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu will speak on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0115par0277	Mr. President, we're facing another bag of legislation. He's got ear earrings, he's got irrigation troops, he's got land collection. State Waterworks, drop it! That's what we used to say when we were kids: Yeah, you're putting a lot of work into State Waterworks. Now you're taking the land collection from the Department of Agriculture and uploading it to State Water Affairs. Let's see if he's got that many personnel, if he's got that much information. Why did we say "bag law"? You're putting too much into one place. It wasn't that much, even though it was the first time he came to the Commission. Then new materials were added. You're always available to add substances. Look, it's been a year since you falsely accused our journalist, writer and Istanbul MP Enis Berberoglu, and now he's in prison. I salute him from here, but I condemn the Justice and Development Party to bring the law into the House in this way. This law was not discussed at an NGO, nor did universities discuss it, nor did professional organisations discuss it. Of course, you don't want anyone to argue, and you don't want anyone to hear it. I'm glad there's opposition. He came to the Commission, and we had the opportunity to correct a few very difficult issues in the Commission. If we didn't fix these, you'd put water counters on all the fields, you'd privatise all the water, but there's still a danger of privatisation, because if this law passes, it allows the water to be sold with money, it can lead to the forest's plunder. Something happened in the first place. Solar energy panels can be installed on all water fields, rivers, lakes, dams. It's nice at first, but let's see if you're going to set up some very modern solar panels, or are you going to use simple, phony devices? Because whoever runs the water can pass it on any way they want, and there's no CED report on it. Under water, there are thousands, tens of thousands of living animals, ecological systems, if the balance breaks down, if you don't look at it, you're just looking at the money. Therefore, we need to go to an arrangement in case the CED report is urgently needed. We're building new headquarters, which is good, so we're going to build new areas. Look, there used to be land and water management in this country. It was a beautiful directorate. They were the ones who did the land collection work, where to build dams, where to build irrigation facilities, by working on all kinds of maps, you shut it down, you built the Village Services. Instead of the Village Services, you're now assigning tasks to other institutions, and the Department of Agriculture's Department of Land Reform was doing the job, and now State Water Affairs is going to do the job. I mean, State Waterworks, let's just drop it; do something else. You take water to the fields, bring water to the manufacturer. The dams are full of holes, so let's fix those dams. Now there will be a serious shortage of water in the world, perhaps in 20 or 30 years, there will be water wars in the world, and even 1 gram of water will matter. We need to bring water to the field, and we need to get people to drink the healthy water. But like I said, State Water Affairs needs to shut down the open watering basins now, take the water to the drop-by-drop fields. You brought laws in this direction, and we said no? But what's in the laws you bring in? You're destroying democracy. Twenty-five years ago, Aman, this DSI can't do it, so let's call it quits. You're taking the issue back to State Waterworks, which you call watering units. So there the citizen is making a list, he says, "Ya, these are my lists." On the other side, someone from another village is making another list; they're competing. Someone says, "I'm the president. Let the man who graduated from elementary school, the man who graduated from secondary school, let him be president, let him supervise, let him rule." But you can't manage them well. Why can't they be managed? E, because ten years ago, one kilo of wheat was 80 cents, still 80 cents, but ten years ago, one liter of diesel was $1.5, now $5.5. Which watering company, which co-op, which farmer can stand it, so he can't take credit; is that a thing? When you came to power, the farmer's debt, $1 billion, went up to $100 billion, so of course the troops couldn't work. However, when you look at the DSI reports, the irrigation troops are not so bad. There are bad people, but you can't manage them, so you say: "Let's get rid of this in another way. Let's let democracy live; let's run the control mechanisms if there are flaws, if there are problems." Other than that, you've added new directorates, which we're going to talk about here. The Sugar Foundation was linked to the Ministry of Agriculture, which would control the starch-based sugar. You've brought this place to the Commission, you've committed six department heads, the Ministry of Finance said I won't give it to you. I congratulate those bureaucrats. Now that he's down from the Commission to the General Assembly, we'll supervise him too. Let's hope that this institution oversees it. We don't need starch-based sugar for our people, we don't endanger their health. I'm inviting the Department of Agriculture on this. Because the quota of starch-based sugar, you know, was raised to 15 percent, we did some serious pressure, but it's gone to 5 percent, but there's no control. If there's no inspection, zero if you can't control it, starch-based sugar can lead to cancer, sugar, obesity. Why am I saying this? Because the bag is in the law, the bag is in the law, and of course we're going to talk about it. So there's sugar in the water, there's dirt in the sugar, there's forest in the soil, so it's a mess. And you added ear earrings, uh, and there were firearms, and you pulled it out. I mean, you don't have to discuss things as soon as they happen, you have to be a little more serious. In the same way, we're bringing up the irrigation troops again. Look, we've been approached by the director of hundreds of irrigation units in the commission, and they've gone around, and we're a watering union manager. Why do they do that? Well, we say, "We're not shutting you down." On the contrary, the Republican People's Party favours the end of democracy. Go and see the rulers of the Justice and Development Party, and let them withdraw this law. I mean, what happens when you destroy the irrigation troops? Well, we'll let it happen again when we get here because we're a party that believes in democracy. So, the problem is that you don't care enough about agriculture, about the farmer, you don't see the farmer as a master. When that farmer sweats in the sun, and his hands work in the sun, and he brings water to his field, there is no happiness in him, even when he brings it cheaply. Let's all help this farmer here, together, to support his field, no matter how he brings the most economical water, no matter how he succeeds, no matter how he increases production. Let's increase the planting of the feed plants. But what are you doing? You're increasing the import of bait, so you don't support the planting of bait plants, you don't bring grass, you don't bring fertilizer, you don't bring water, you increase imports instead. Look, he's importing soy, corn, wheat, barley, half of the food raw materials to Turkey right now, isn't that a shame? Our own farmer is in debt, our own farmer is miserable, unable to receive your support. What are you guys doing? You even look for his support because he doesn't pay for the water, and you say, "I'm going to cut back on the support payments." No matter what the farmer does. What's the farmer doing? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The end, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0116par0286	Okay, wait a minute, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0115par0287	Our farmer is migrating from village to city. Is he happy when he leaves his village? No, he's definitely not happy. Look, on Sunday, we took a walk in Istanbul against sugar privatisation and then made a press statement. We were there as Republican People's Party MPs. We had to leave Tokat. They say there. Why did you have to leave? Because the AKP had promised us what had been promised? Let's close this cigarette factory, 300 people were working here, we'll raise it to 1,000. They shut down the cigarette factory, and now there's wind in that factory. Now the sugar factories are being privatized. We don't trust you. You're trying to sell the factories, but they're going to close. Once it's closed, Anatolia will be empty, and farmers in Turkey will migrate to large cities. Is that what you want? Listen to us for a moment. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0117par0291	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. Chapter 1, Article 7, Article 8, Article 8, Article 9, Article 10, Article 11, Article 11, Subsequent 12, Article 13, Article 14, Article 14 and Article 9, Article 12, Article 12, Article 12, Article 1 and Article 13. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Mustafa Mit will speak on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr. Mit. (Applause from MHP rows) Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0118par0299	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on the First Amendment to the Law on the State Water Affairs General Directorate, 548 rows, and the Law on the Laws of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, and the Law on the Law on the Law and Jobs of the State Water Affairs Department. I salute the General Assembly. The bill adopted by the Commission -- by the government -- was in 59 articles, including the implementation and executive clauses of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. It has been understood that there was no consultation during the preparation process, and that the views of the relevant parties were not taken. Honorable lawmakers are not subject to conditions that are mandatory in terms of law-making technique and procedure. The Law on Public Financial Management and Control No. 5018 and Orders of Presentation are in effect. There is no regulatory analysis of the regulations prepared by the government, according to Article 10 and 24 of the Articles 10 of the Regulations on Orders and Originals. The analysis of the benefit and cost of the regulatory impact analysis is likely not included in detailed information and assessments of the organisation's advice and opinion process, followed by the effects of social, economic and commercial life, environmental and relevant segments. However, there is no regulatory analysis of the draft bill. Dear lawmakers, Turkey, one of the seven self-contained countries of the world, is no longer self-sufficient. The bill, which concerns many laws, is discussed at the centre of the changes in the management structure of land collection and irrigation units. The most important policy to support, in terms of the future of Turkish agriculture, is the gathering of land. Turkey has very important experience and successful practices in collecting land. As examples are seen in the world, land collection services must be dealt with integrated planning as part of the reclamation of the basin. In line with water structures, silencing measures, protection and enrichment of the fluorine, foresting, erosion control, land collection and land development activities should be designed as part of the development of socioeconomic factors of farmers' settlements or modernisation. Dear lawmakers, the second important issue of the bill is the restructuring of watering units that work according to Law 6172. The irrigation units are public corporate personalities established by law, and the governing bodies are determined by the participation of all members. Despite the failure of co-operative practices, watering troops and other units, such as PANKOBIRC, provide successful services. Our late Founding President Alparslan Türkesh has invited the Turkish nation to campaign for development to increase the pace of development in Turkey, to produce more production, to create a more equitable division along with this production increase, and to reduce the difference of development between regions, to this purpose he has offered a model called the ▪mille sector. Watering troops are a fine example of the nation's industry. The irrigation units are owned by the manufacturer as a branch of agricultural production, and the success graph is increasing. According to the State and Reality Report, the irrigation units were found to be 70 per cent successful. Another example of the nation's industry is the story of an interesting success. It's a prototype of the nation's sector, which we call the third sector, where there are no academic debates in economic models. A story of success in agriculture, food, industry and animalism is worth studying in model economic schools, which are produced by a combination of consumers. The waterworks of the state, the Court, and the bookkeeping of the nation are the owners of watering forces that have taken considerable distances from institutionalisation and ownership. There's no better choice than to have the troops run by the nation that owns them. A bad example is not an example. It is not right to eliminate irrigated troops from organizations that have developed the nation's ownership of the land by moving from the bad example. The irrigation units must be protected as they are. The bill maintains the corporate personality of the irrigation troops. The bill envisions representation and governance by a president who has been appointed to remove the bodies from the election. But there is no choice, there is no language that describes the personality of a structure that has no representation authority, which has been appointed from another institution, which is based on administrative, financial, and autonomy, which no member has agreed to. The non-personal structure will not be able to gain its corporate personality. In an audit and monitoring report by State Water Affairs on irrigation units' activities in 2016, the units have been evaluated. The average analysis score of the 378 irrigated watering unit is 52 out of 100. Seven per cent of the watering ground that has been handed over to the irrigation units is very successful, 33 per cent successful, 34 per cent good, and 23 per cent in the middle. The main factor in the performance of the majority of irrigation troops above average are persistent and improved audits. The total collection rate is another reason for changing the management structure of the irrigation units. Compared to 2006 and 2016, the cost balance appears to be beginning to form. The fact that ten years of statistics have shown that watering units are becoming institutional, administrative and financial stability. Dear MPs, there have been extensive work done by the DSI General Directorate units for amendments to Law 6172 in 2016. The idea that came out of this study, and this fact that it was developed, was allowed to be handed over to the irrigation units of the facilities that were taken over from other institutions. The bill for the transfer of the irrigation units to the State Waterworks is a contrast. The use of the powers available in the existing law on those of the irrigation units, the termination of those who have failed through the implementation of the bodies, the status of successful troops must be kept exactly as they are. There is no better model to protect the use of water and irrigation facilities under the farmer's direction than the farmer, due to direct ill nature. Dear lawmakers, the provisions that may mean the privatisation of water have been removed from the bill in commission work, but this statement has been added in the commission's work -- the actual and legal person who has been transferred the responsibility of the 8th Amendment or business and maintenance of the 8th article. It is clear that the idea for privatisation of water remains in the text of the law, and will set a legal basis and precedent for the future arrangement and discussion. Again, the third sentence of the matter can be operated by the DSI by service, as a result of amendments to Article 8 to Article 12. Why would the DSI be receiving services? What will be the procedure and basis of receiving services? I think these should be explained in this bill, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0119par0316	Thank you, Mr. Mit. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş will speak. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0120par0320	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yes, and I have made a commitment to the department. I salute you all. The talks on the general area actually made very important assessments of the whole bill, and the necessity of the arrangements has been revealed. We hope that -- with regard to these -- we can conduct an open General Assembly study on this issue, taking into account the suggestions, criticisms of the materials in the future, as a whole. We wish for it, we wish for it, and our effort is obviously in this direction. Dear lawmakers, frankly, the external dependency of agricultural policy in Turkey, the increase of imports day by day, now remains one of the main agendas in Turkey. Yes, countries that don't grow agricultural products and can't do livestock are actually known as countries that depend on the outside of food. As agriculture and livestock contribute to the country's income, employment actually determines that by direct impact. One out of every four workers today works in this sector, and one third of the population actually earns a living from here. Turkey used to be considered an agricultural country in talks about Turkey -- we all remember -- if we refresh our memory. In elementary school, middle school, high school, we used to talk about it a lot, and Turkey is an agricultural country. But today we can't say it's not an industrial country, it's not an agricultural country.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0121par0325	It's a construction country.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0120par0326	Why can't we say it? Turkey used to be one of the most self-contained countries in agriculture and livestock, but today in Turkey of 2018 -- as I just said -- is not a tourism country, not an industry, not an agricultural country. Why? So in addition to not being an agricultural country, the expression that it is a self-contained country in the production of agricultural and animal products remains in our memory as an expression that dates back to the 1980s. For the past 35 or 40 years, agriculture and animal production have been severely reduced in Turkey and we have become an externally dependent country in agricultural products. From wheat to corn, from straw to rice, from soy to tobacco, from living animals to red meat, from chickpeas to lentils, we have to import almost every product from the outside. Despite all inflated mathematical data, Turkey is moving away from being a production country every day and is rapidly on its way to becoming a consumer country. So, how do we explain this, really, is there an explanation? In this regard, we can explain dozens of grounds such as neoliberal policies, the high price of fertilizers and diesels, the low-income migration of rural cities, the lack of farmers' incentives, the lack of energy and high-tech products. But these -- of course, they're not all fundamental factors -- they're in front of us as side factors. One of the main issues, of course, is the migration around the Kurdish issue in the 90s. I mean, we all know there's a lot of farming in Kurdish provinces, a lot of farming, a lot of farming. And we mustn't miss it. In recent years, I would also like to share with you that during these blockades, during curfews, there has been another serious migration, and agriculture and animalism has suffered serious damage in this sense. Now, there are a lot of things to really be criticized for in the bill that is ahead of us, but I'd also like to sort out the majors in the department. Now, first of all, all of the materials that predict radical changes in agriculture, forest and water have been added to the bill as usual. The bag is the law, it's not out of fashion, so there's no more original law enforcement. There's one thing that we've always criticised here -- the views of relevant vocational rooms and associations, NGOs, universities and unions -- were prepared before they were taken again, and on the last day of the bill's talks, there was a number of new clauses added to the bill. For example, the DSI and project administration of Article 3 have been authorized to be the institution for the use of water, water basins, soil, forest ecosystems, and commercialisation. The DSI and authorized company could gather land for industrial production of agriculture fields, forests, and water, so the deed of the deed to the deed of Tapu Kadastro was shut down directly. The people with the vineyard, the garden, the fields, their living spaces, their properties are being seized directly. The right of ownership of a citizen is completely ignored by the right of a farmer who earns his livelihood from his vineyard, garden, agriculture and livestock. The mera are opened to industrial agriculture by gathering land, by forcing hands on fields, vineyards, gardens. That's another problem the bill brings us. For example, in Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Article 8 of the State Water Affairs General Directorate, it has been decided that the costs of counsel will be paid by the DSI for the crime committed by the officers in charge of their duties, and how interesting. For example, according to this clause, a DSI staff has been tried for irregularity or for murder, so let's say that they've been tried, making it easier to commit all sorts of crimes. We also know this stuff from other institutions and structures. There's got to be a method that doesn't really replace incentives for the appointment of a lawyer, that doesn't justify that crime. There's actually a lot more detail in the motive part of the relevant clause. Again, watering troops, which we can call a democratic mass organization, now run by farmers, are being privatized. There's no way to understand this, so it's not possible to understand it in terms of society, in terms of citizens, but in terms of the government, we're no doubt predicting the reason for this. The privatisation policy continues here. The irrigation units are no longer the farmers' institution. With this, 378 irrigation unions, including 14.487 members of parliament elected by the High Election Board, are being tried to abolish. A staff assigned by the DSI is appointed as trustees to the irrigation units. There's been a lot of talk about adeta, and the trustee policy, unfortunately, continues in the irrigation units, and it's our open call to the government: to give up the policy of trustees. The trustee means to block the will. To the farmer, just as in the local authorities, you cannot govern yourself. He says we'll solve it by appointing trustees to the irrigation troops. Again, there's an opening for industrial agriculture that's going to take out the farmer's livelihoods, take over the land, collect it, and I'd like to say that once again. What's the DSI actually going to do with the agricultural land? He's going to give it to the companies, and so the companies will own everything, so to speak, the farmer will have to work as a mahogany in the company's bosses. In this respect, we have no admission to the bill. We are negative in view, and we will continue to share with you again in the further reviews of this bill. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0122par0340	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Orhan Sarıbal will speak for him. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0123par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, freedom is needed in this country first. There is no freedom in this country. We demand freedom for Enis Berberoglu and all arrested MPs. In this Parliament, just as we are sitting here as the elected legislator of the people, all lawmakers have to say their words in the laws, in the legislation, in the decisions made here on behalf of this country, particularly Enis Berberoglu, they have to fight, and that's number one. Secondly, valuable lawmakers, there are three basic issues with the bill coming in: one, water. Water is one of the most important strategic sources of the next hundred years, the cause of war: water, food, energy. Of course, we know how to get the energy. Food and water are very important. Therefore, the rulers want to take all of Turkey's powers over food and water and keep it under their control. So, how can these sovereigns, multinational corporations do it, how can they do it? Of course, there must be an Indian organization that carries water to their mill. Who? Power. He must be in power so that both water and soil and energy will serve their gentlemen, their Aghas, who are in the multinational company. You know why I say that? Look, I have a report from the FAO, the World Food Organization and the United Nations. How is water management in the world, public-private management and how water is managed commercially, how it becomes a profitable sector, it teaches its lesson. Where? Here's to Forest Waterworks. When? 2017. Yes, when you read this report -- I suggest -- it tells you how the water management in Turkey will be a profitable sector through whom, how to manage it right, how to collect the money. But one of the most important things he said, the final and most important explanation of this report is that you need a strong, determined political power to implement this system." So what must be done to plunder the waters, the lands, the mountains, the forests? There's supposed to be a need for political will. Right here, I'd like to take turns taking care of the relevant items of this bill. It's about protecting farmers' property, so if the manufacturer is protecting his property, don't let him pay this protection group as a manufacturer. Yeah, how much money do these people get? How much are you paying? For God's sake, how much are you paying? Are you in this much trouble? We know, the government is in trouble, looting sugar factories, looting forests, looting rivers. And the businessmen, the state's public institutions, the corporate people, these poor people, you've got your eye on a dime? Here's the thing: I'm a farmer, I've got a field, someone's gonna check the field next door, and I'm gonna say, "I control my own field, you don't need it." Why? So I don't have to pay a dime. So, the question is, when there's trouble in the field next door, in my field, is this place not mine, and I'm not looking at it? Or on the contrary, there's a problem here, who's in charge of the other side, who interfered here. Why did you interfere with this loss, this loss? Shall we beat him up? Are we going to punish him? Come on, let's not be so ridiculous. The second and most important ingredient: the surfaces of water, lakes and ponds, the edges of waterlines, are assigned to those who bring solar energy projects for twenty-nine years. • To whom are you selling their property? Mr. Secretary, you took it from the people, you took it from the forest areas of the Ministry of Forests, you took it from the farmer's field. Now you're going to give them to a company to generate energy, so don't. If the State Waterworks is using the water, let him set up the energy system and give the farmer cheap electricity. Today, isn't one of the most important input pens the farmer's been forced to use energy? It's energy.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0124par0350	That, too.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0123par0351	He's got it, and we don't see it, for some reason, it doesn't say around here, so I guess you keep it in the house.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0125par0352	Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0123par0353	Another very important thing: you're going to collect, you've taken it from an institution to an institution. Yes, we have objections, but at the end of the day, it's a government institution, but the question is, you're going to have to go public without the farmer's consent. What was it before that? There was at least 50 plus 1 percent, which is more than half of it, which was consensual, and now it's gone. I'll do it when I say I want to assemble any institution here. Is that enough? It's not enough. It will be replaced by a farmer who does not consent to publicisation, and it will be said to him: "We put this business together, buy it. There is no way for me to buy it or sell it to anyone else. Don't take it directly, direct intervention. Of course we don't accept that. Can that happen? It's about taking away the little farmer's rights, taking over his property, that's the land he owns, that's the land he owns, that's exactly what we don't accept. And what's he doing? Of course, in these places, if the farmer doesn't consent, well, the government won't hold hands, it's well publicized, it's a commission he's set up, he's depositing it into a bank, but he can sell it to someone else. Oh, conscience! Is that possible, dear friends? How can you do such an opportunity, such an opportunity, such an opportunity, and such a thing? Of course we're against it until the end, we don't consent to it. Yeah, a friend of our congressman just told us about the agricultural benefits, we're giving him, like, 32 or 34 billion. There's Goebbels, the chief propaganda chief of the fascist Hitler era, who says: "Tell a lie." Say it so that you can believe it yourself, then someone will come out. Come on, since 2007, since the law came out, you have to pay this farmer 200 billion dollars, now that you've paid 100 billion dollars, you owe the farmer 100 billion. In 2018, you announced 15 billion instead of 35 billion, which should be 1 percent of the non-national estate. Either the Ministry pens are wrong or you don't read them, so what am I supposed to do? You're completely lying about their support. That's not enough, Mr. Secretary, I told you there...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0125par0355	Mr. Sarıbal, would you please address the General Assembly?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0123par0356	For the farmer's hard day, it's not a grant, my friends, no one's giving it away. The law, the law that you have passed, in Article 21 of the Law of Agriculture, 2006, we will support the farmer at least one percent of the national estate. Let alone 1 percent of it, you have not given it, it has remained in five thousandths and six thousandths, and now you have set your eyes elsewhere. These supports, if the farmer doesn't pay for water, if the farmer doesn't pay for electricity, you're going to cut back on what these companies get, so the government's mission is over, and it's going to collect for corporations and institutions, unfortunately. Is that even possible? What's that like? Of course, we object to that, and we don't agree to that. Yes, the management of all irrigation co-ops, control, etcetera, will be at State Water Affairs, but it will also be authorized to dissolve. Again, all the powers of the troops are taken, replaced by the public institution, the DSI, or the county's private administration or the mayor of the city. The question is, you're privatizing sugar factories because they're damaged. Your motive is a lie. You're privatizing, there's a public risk, you're privatizing public distress. On this side, you're taking over non-violent irrigation troops, assigning trustees, impounding them, disposing them. Yeah, what understanding, what logic, what science? Somebody give us a description, guys, somebody give us a description. Which one of you did they come to, and which one of you did they stand at the door of? Don't do this, which clearly describes the relevant report. Look, Mr. Secretary of the Obelisk, give up now, don't do this. Look, don't hand the lamb over to the wolf. You write in the woods. No animals are allowed. See, there are no contractors or pickpockets in the forest. You guys haven't been out in the woods lately, or those pickpockets are aware of this, they're fooling you. Come on, give it up; the obelisk is the most important tool for the slaughter of forests. Second: Come on, forest-designed land... friends, there is no bad land in the world, there is no bad rock in the world, there is no bad land in the world, there is no right, balanced land, there is no public use, there is no science, there is no wisdom, there is no government. No land or value is evil. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0126par0362	Of course. I'll give you one more minute. Please come in.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0127par0365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, when you look at all the land of machi, sand, gravel, rock, rock - especially the edges of the Mediterranean, and the mountains, and the edges of the Aegean, and all the regions of Marmara, which go up from sea to mountain, you will find a million of them. This land has lost its forest quality. You will open it to construction and industry on account of it. I know the government has serious economic difficulties, I know, I don't object, there's a serious economic crisis, there's a serious cash problem, but we're dealing with a serious economic problem, thanks to you, but it's not going to happen by slaughtering forests, by building forests, by building forest areas, Mr. Secretary. Two examples: 39,000 acres of the first-class forest in Kemalpaşa, of the Marmara region, and of course 1,100 acres of the forest in Yalıntas. Come on, Mr. Secretary, don't! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The AKP will enter the republic's history as a building that plunders the resources of this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0128par0371	Thank you, Mr. Saribal. On behalf of his person, Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp will speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0129par0375	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group. We're going through a difficult time as a country, we're going through a difficult time, we're going through a historical period. But the approach to solutions and how to improve these problems, how to solve them, is extremely upsetting and worrying. Now, today, we're going to talk about agriculture and animalism policy, but first, I want to show you a little picture of where we stand. Yes, this country appeared to be a country of forty-five, fifty years ago in agriculture and livestock, and was a major exporter of agriculture. And then there came a moment where there were four migration movements, you know, and there was a huge law of residence over the Sheikh Sait uprising in 1925, and there was a huge migration and transfer from there. Later, in 1934, he came out, you know, and at that time, he was forced to place 27,851 people from the districts of Derim, Erzincan, Bitlis, Siirt, Van, Bingöl, Diyarbakır, Ağrı, Mush, Erzurum, Elazığ, Kars. In 1950, there was another wave of migrations across Turkey for economic reasons, and the third movement of migration was from the population movement there after World War II, from the demographic, from here and from Turkey. With 1987, we are talking about security policies against the Kurdish problem, an intense migration from perspective, the power of the strain and the evacuation of 4,000 villages, a reality where 5 million people were displaced from their homeland. There are still mandatory migrations going on that day. As there has been no difference in the security policies that have been going on that day, there is no difference in perspective, on the contrary, we are dealing with an approach that is increasing, using the harder power. There came a moment when -- look, I'm going to talk about Hasankeyf -- thousands of acres of land that had been flooded from Hasankeyf's fall under the dam, and they were all farmland. But there was one thing that mattered, and there was a shrine, and it was only in the 1850s, I think, if I remember correctly, there was the Temple of Zeynel Bey, which was described as a Turkish elder, and his shrine was transferred, and the rest was flooded. I wonder if you can really describe this many ethnic, racist approaches. I mean, you can think of a way to take out that Temple of Zeynel, but it doesn't bother you that hundreds of villages are underwater there. That's the way he sees Kurdish. From the perspective of the Kurd, look what it has done to the country financially. The insistence on security policies has raised the dollar to over $4 in this country today, and it has raised the euro to over $5, and how can we ignore such a reality and still develop some companies, and how can we ignore the manufacturers there today? Our life model was this, and that's still our insistence: the HDP is based on the will of the people, based on the management of the people, and the administration in its place allows the people of the economy to decide. Look, we based on a work plan within ourselves, and now you're doing it the opposite way: we've created community councils, neighborhood councils; now you're trying to form your own power through the muhtars. But here's ours: the neighborhood council will decide for itself, and he will decide for himself what to do there, and he will decide for the economic model. If the villagers had made up their own mind today, we wouldn't have had such a high economic crisis today. Do you know why we didn't live? We would not have lived because we respected people's identities, language, faith, and will. Today an F16 leaves, costs millions of dollars, but it means that he ignored that village's will, that city's will, that country, that people, whatever it is, didn't accept any of it. No one will win here, and no one will win here. Maybe no one wins except for three or five companies, but millions of people are going to lose, and they're starting to lose. He's become so self-inflicted that people commit suicide because of the economic crisis. Right next to us, 100 meters away, people burned themselves, committed suicide 100 meters away, and those suicides are unfortunately the shame of this country, the Parliament and the government in the first place. I'd like to continue from here: Look, I'll come back to Hasankeyf. I'm talking about twelve thousand years of history, and I'm talking about twelve thousand years of history being flooded, and I'm leaving this: pedestrians, mechas, villages, they're all underwater, one thing being pulled out of there: the Temple of Zeynel. Is that how much you respect the people who live there? You're destroying everything, but you're getting Zeynel Bey Temple out of there. So conscious...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0130par0385	Complete.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0129par0386	I don't know how you have the conscience to do that. Some of you have faith, and some of you have conscience, and some of you have wisdom. You don't mind? A twelve thousand years of history is being destroyed, flooded, but only one shrine is being removed from there; look, the Zeynel Bey Temple is being pulled out of there, and the rest are all being left underwater. Does it ever bother you that an earth wonder such as Hasankeyf is under water, only to remove the Temple of Zeynel Bey? It makes you feel uncomfortable, a little embarrassed. How can I just get that shrine out of there and not let it destroy thousands of years of history? It's supposed to be a moral, moral inconvenience to me. I'm going to point out and say this again: today's unemployment on this agriculture, animalism, the only major motivation for the destruction of historical sites is to approach the Kurdish issue with security and completely forbidden mentality. And everyone else is suffering, and it's gonna get bigger. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0131par0390	Thank you, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0132par0391	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0131par0392	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0132par0395	Mr. President, Hasankeyf is a very important historical place. Since 2000, the Ministry of Culture has been there for the recovery of various historical artifacts, mounds, remains...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0133par0396	Why are you saving him? He'd be happy if you'd just leave him alone, Hasankeyf. He can't get rid of you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0132par0397	...state Waterworks, Middle East Technical University, they run a very busy study. It would be a good attitude to see these studies and appreciate their rights. So I don't think it's a proper assessment that Mrs. Jezebel misses what's going on here while she's giving a speech and brings one grave forward.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0133par0398	I know very well, Mr. Bostanci, I'm a Batman MP. We know what you're doing. Just last week, people rebelled there, rioting.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0132par0399	If you have a claim, if you have an approach, there will be realist ideas behind it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0134par0401	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0135par0402	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0134par0403	Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0135par0404	199 villages, including Hasankeyf, are now...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0134par0405	Mr. Yigitalp, I'm going to turn on your microphone, please complete it in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0135par0408	Currently, 199 settlements, including villages and mezzaries, will be flooded with Hasankeyf. We're talking about a date of 12,000 years. So, I'd like to ask you: how are you going to protect twelve thousand years of history under water? Then why did you only carry the shrine of Mr. Zeinel? If it's about the production base and the local will of the people, why didn't you respect the historical culture of the local people there, just the shrine of Mr. Zeynel? Isn't there a contradiction?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0136par0409	It's not like that.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0135par0410	I'm telling you 199 villages and deserts will be flooded. Look, there are Batman's own deputies here, and they're following it very closely. So that's what I'm personally getting, and I'm talking through information, and I'm never saying that over assumption. I'm saying 199 villages and merra will be flooded. However, I'm saying that 12,000 years of history is being destroyed. There's only one difference, you've dug up the shrine of Zeynel Bey, and that's it.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0137par0412	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0138par0413	There's been a lot of work there for 18 years.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0137par0417	Yes, on behalf of the person, finally, Adana MP Fatma Güldemet Sarı will speak.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0139par0418	Mr. President, I was in the system...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0137par0419	Then I'll promise Mr. Altay his place. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0140par0422	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. At the beginning of my speech, I am celebrating the 173rd anniversary of our Turkish police force, which is working to ensure the peace and security of our country, which is more important than the safety of our citizens. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy, health and pleasure to our veterans, our heroic martyrs who have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the first chapter of the First Amendment to the State Water Affairs General Directorate's Agency and its duties, and on the amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. We are gathered here today to discuss a very important bill of law. As you know, the State Water Affairs General Directorate is a first-degree investor organisation responsible for the planning, assessment and management of our country's water resources. In the past 15 years, major investments in the development of our country's state waterworks General Directorate, which has contributed greatly to the development of our country, in order for their investments to be done faster and more efficiently, there are some issues that need to be added to their duties and powers, as well as some arrangements that need to be made to ensure that the ongoing work and transactions are carried out healthier. Under this bill, the state Water Affairs General Directorate's power to allocate water to protect and effectively manage water resources is clearly organised; the authority and mandate of the state waterworks General Directorate to do field-building and field-building services is granted. These services will be carried out by the State Water Affairs General Directorate in line with irrigation projects, thus making our farmer's agricultural activities efficient. The price for the creation of the state waterworks General Directorate 6200's irrigation facilities, which have been built by law on the Agency and its duties, has been waived from our farmers. The cost input in our farmers' agricultural production has been reduced, increasing the profit share of their products. The DSI General Directorate is appointed to use this support by bringing a new support payment under the name of support for internal irrigation systems. It has been authorized by the General Directorate of State Water Affairs that the energy facilities to be built to meet the need for electricity are to be built without being subject to the limit of licensing. So the energy needs of agricultural facilities will be met by exploiting renewable energy sources. It is also aimed at facilitating the work of archaeological excavation and restoration in order to uncover historical and cultural values; it is intended to contribute to the development of fisheries in our country; it is forced to obtain permission for facilities to be built outside the forest; it is easier to open the way for the sale of planted trees and forest products; it is intended to provide raw materials for forest products; it is intended to be more efficient and efficient in combating forest fires. Again, with this bill, farmers will be allowed to be able to determine the need for protection activities from the local community, to be carried out in accordance with the demands of those in need, to be free of unnecessary cost, and to continue their functioning examples. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as the AK PARTY governments, we take great care of the forests. Turkey continues to increase as the world's forest presence wanes. In the past 15 years, Turkey has increased forest areas by 15 million per cent, raising 223 million out of 208 million. However, with the instructions of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, large campaigns have been launched. By 2023 this year, a new wooding campaign will meet with one plant -- seven billion saplings -- for every human in the world. Again, our President will be the engine of the development of the forest villagers. The 5,000-income Forest Project was launched into the 5,000 Villages in order to increase the village's tree presence as well as to give economic contribution to citizens living in the village. As part of this project, 10 million trees have been planted in 3,500 villages. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, including the United Nations and UNESCO, report from relevant agencies that the world... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0141par0434	Please complete, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0140par0435	... With increasing populations, global warming, droughts, the demand for water is increasing day by day, and fresh water supplies are dwindling. Turkey is not a water-rich country, despite its belief. Therefore, water resources must be used at a very high cost. In 15 years, 7.200 facilities for water resources were opened in Turkey. The total investment cost of the facilities was 125.8 billion. The number of dams with 276 in 2003 was raised to 784 in 2017, with the dams being the driest period in the last four years, but there was no thirst in 2017. Congressmans, with this bill that we're discussing today coming into existence, it will be the year of the move to water the 2018-2019 inland irrigation and gathering. As with all the work we've done so far, we'll continue to protect, protect, support, support our farmers, our peasants. As I put an end to my words, big and strong Turkey is more healthy as it moves ahead with its goals. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... And I thank all those who have done their part in this bill to make it work faster, and I say to our Minister, I salute our great Council and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0142par0441	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0143par0443	I said I shouldn't talk, after all the neglect, but...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0142par0444	I didn't neglect you, Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0143par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. One thing has come to my attention, in opposition parties' speeches, if there is no bullying, the ruling speakers are also going to the correctional regime, taking the floor. Besides, I can't believe Mr. Bostanci said what he said about Hasankeyf. So if that were to happen, I find it hard to believe that Mr. Bostanci, as a sociologist, who we have seen among us most of all, as a scholar, as a political scientist, said that he had found what had been done in Hasankeyf, true and proper, and that he had said as the nature of his mission. I wanted to mention that to get him on the record, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0142par0449	Thank you, sir. Mr. Bostanci made a move like this, you do his evaluation now.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0143par0451	I mean, it's the right thing to do in Hasankeyf.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0142par0452	Mr. Altay, as you mentioned, the corrective act is the new fashion, we have to do it now. From time to time, you make the same request, and we promise you the same goal. That's why we have to tolerate each other on this. Mr. Bostanci won't talk, all right.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0143par0454	He can't talk because he knows what happened in Hasankeyf isn't true.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0142par0455	You guys can talk amongst yourselves later. Hasankeyf is the value of all of us. I believe the members of the group will then handle this among themselves in the form of conversation. We're going to question-answer. I'll take the questions in seven and a half minutes. We'll start with Mr. Gürer. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0144par0463	Mr. Secretary, seasonal workers are employed due to services such as running the forest, protecting, maintenance. Workers in fire watch towers and first responders without a daily shift are kept ready to serve in management or rental buildings and paid a limited overtime fee. Workers who lack security, who cannot look to the future with confidence, have increased their work of five months and twenty-nine days to nine months and twenty-nine days, but are left to the institution's initiative. Is there an arrangement for the removal of subcontractors or seasonal workers to end the victims of workers and to recruit all workers? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0142par0465	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0145par0466	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, the district of Havsa, our Edirne, where I was born and raised, is a historical district. After almost every rain, there has been no reform work for a long time, so our five-year-old, historical, architect Sinan, our Sküllı mosque, our shops in the county industry, and our farmers and farmers are seriously damaged. Mr. Secretary, the DSI I've told you so many times before is 11. We demand that the construction of the unfinished extremities be carried out as soon as possible. This year, you say no money. But let's do it because there are serious problems, people are victims. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0146par0471	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0147par0472	Mr. Minister, citizens of forest villages in the districts of Pozant, Feke, Aladağ, Saimbeyli are experiencing problems of transportation, health and safety as well as clean drinking water, electricity and communication. According to the 169th and 170th amendments of the Constitution, the measures necessary to protect and develop forests and to support the protection and development of forest villagers will be taken by the state. However, communication with the district and county center of our forest villagers, who receive at least a share of the national income, find the drinking water themselves, and have to repair its own broken path, cannot be solved. At the same time, the villagers face hard labor and cheap labor. Forestry prices are far from covering the peasant's labor. On the other hand, the operation of Seyhan, Çazan, Ceyhan, and Aslantaş Dams in Adana will pose a major problem for the private company, the people and farmers of the region. In Adana districts and districts, water must be switched to closed irrigation system as soon as possible for efficient, correct and balanced use. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0148par0475	Mr. Turkmen? No. Mr. White Star?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0149par0477	Burcu Koksal instead.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0148par0478	Mr. Koksal instead of White Star. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0150par0480	Mr. Secretary, last week, a fire broke out at Eber Lake in my constituency district, Afyonkarahisar, where the reeds burned down and the animals were destroyed. Has there been a damage assessment of this? There's already a lake that drowns in pollution, and Lake Eber, it's struggling, and then there's a fire disaster, and it's completely damaged. Are you going to do a study on this? Again, in the village of Saltiklı, in the District of Sceptiklı, my constituency district of Afyonkarahisar Province, is a citizen in the village of Saltikli, carrying drinking water from the environment, and they are waiting for a solution. Again, Sinanpaşa wants to torve a private company from the merat in Balmahmut village of our district. It's a village that lives on buffalo breeding, so it's vital; the peasant definitely doesn't want it. In particular, we expect your support.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0151par0483	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0152par0484	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, both highways and double roads are being refuted and the side of the road is being treesed, and it's a beautiful practice; our green is growing, and it gives you peace on the journey. But since there's no proper maintenance, there's a series of soots at intervals. Since there are no new trees or plants being replaced, unpleasant images appear along the way. Shouldn't it be observed to plant and maintain local, long - living plants along the way, instead of drying plants or trees, that the new one should be planted immediately? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0153par0487	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0154par0488	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there's been construction of a cotton dam that's been going on for years. Unfortunately, here, misfortune follows the dam. So when exactly will the Cotton Dam construction end with the irrigation water projects, Minister? The citizen's asking. So we said 2013; we said 2014; we said 2015; we said 2015; we said 2016; we said 2016; you said no; you said no; now there's 2018; there's no. So when does this dam end, Mr. Secretary? Give me a clear date on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0155par0491	Mr. Gaytancioğlu, again...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0156par0492	Thank you, Mr. President. With the situation of Turkish agriculture in the open, we also gave the DSI General Directorate the job of collecting land. I'd like to ask the question, when is the promised agricultural engineer's employment going to take place? There is an interview in the bill, but the prosecution has forbidden the interview to the DSI. Will you be appointing an agricultural engineer for the 995 staff committed to State Water Affairs? I'm also asking you to tell the Minister of Agriculture how long will the appointment of agricultural engineers, water products engineers, veterinary physicians and food engineers be held? They ask us all the time, and we ask you, and we ask you for a detailed answer. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0157par0497	Mr. Peksen...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0158par0498	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a village called Osmaniye Daziçi Çamichi. It's a village that has a population of 2,000 from time to time in summer, but unfortunately there's no drinking water in the village. From a villaged creek bed, he bound them with drinking water, and it became more and more orderly, and it became an established order. It's undrinkable, it's coli, and it's always making the villagers sick, and they're also paying for the water counters tied up, and they're paying for it. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, would you like to go to that village and drink water, or send your bureaucrats over there, and one evening, in the ramen, and in the hour of glory, they'd like to open up their honors from that stream of water that doesn't flow there? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0159par0501	Mr. White Star, please.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0160par0502	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to talk to you later about these sugar factories, but I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary and Mr. Government. Neither the sugar farmers want the privatisation of the sugar factories in Turkey, nor the manufacturer wants the producers, nor the people who provide the livelihood there for transportation, transportation, or any kind of livestock, nor our nation wants it, but still the sugar factories are sold one by one. Why this insistence, why this stubbornness? Let's give up the sale of these sugar factories as soon as you claim to be national, domestic, and prove to us here that you are national and domestic. Sugar factories are really national and really local. I thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0161par0505	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0506	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, Mr. Gürer specifically asked about seasonal workers. You know, seasonal workers work for the Director General of the Forest, five months and twenty-nine days. However, you know, the decision of the High Assembly has been made to extend it, and it will be extended according to the need. But let me put it this way: as a forest service, we are giving these seasonal workers a very affordable and affordable wage, and I want to stress that in particular. In fact, my claim is that they receive almost a year's salary in about six months, and I want to stress that in particular, compared to the other, minimum wage. Now, my dear Edirne MP, of course Edirne, there have been riots in Edirne for a long time. But we really want to stress that we've done a lot of work in the Ergene River, both in Meric, in the Tuca River, in the floods of Edirne. I mean, I personally...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0163par0510	In Havsa County...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0511	In Havsa County, right now, let me put it this way, that when we took Edirne as a total, the most important extremism is done in Edirne Province. Okay, maybe it's not all over, but 90% of it is. Basically, it's the first time the Channel Edirne has opened. It's gonna end this year, and it's really a completely unique project for us, and I've been planning it myself.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0163par0512	I'm already there. From the Dam of Süloğlu came to us, not from Meric and Ergene, but from the Dam of Suloglu.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0513	Okay, I've instructed my friends to look into that, too. You know, I have a grandfather who's a martyr there, so we care deeply about Edirne. Let's see if we're missing. Whatever it takes to do to Edirne, doing this work to our city is truly a worship for us. Of course, the matter of being turned into a closed system of irrigation systems expressed by Mr. Hemer... sir, we've always had what we call classic irrigation systems, but during our government, we've removed the classic irrigation systems, and now we've moved on to modern irrigation systems, closed systems. In fact, when I was DSI General Manager and Minister of Environment and Forest, I instructed my friends: "Taste existing projects and turn them into closed systems. " Since this law will also be carried out by the DSI as well as inland irrigation, development, massization services, we will now be forced to co-operate with the farmers in the field and watering the rain and drips. I mean, this is something I've been really looking forward to, and hopefully we'll make it happen. Mr. Congressman, our Afyonkarahisar MP, Burcu Haným; now, I'm from Afyonkarahisar, son of that district. Look, when Lake Eber was once a lake that was completely sold out, completely dry, we saved this lake with seven action plans. What do you mean? There are now such living, even endemic species of Eber Lake, that for the first time, I am the first one to work on the ark of Noah, the only species in the world, called Eber-yellow, just around Eber Lake. So, what did we do? Look...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0164par0517	Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to go with me, visit the lake, it stinks.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0518	Let me, I'm answering, let me.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0165par0519	Mr. Rootsal, please...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0520	About this Eber Lake, did all the sewer waters around Afyonkarahisar and all the sewers flow to Eber Lake before us?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0166par0521	It's still flowing. It's still flowing.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0522	Never.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0166par0523	Industrial waste and sewage are still going, Eberίe, still going.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0167par0524	Mr. Rootsal, please...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0525	We have now established the most advanced treatment facility in Turkey. At least I'm inviting you there. I'd like you to see the decontamination facility.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0166par0526	Let's go to the lake together, Mr. Secretary, and visit the lake.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0527	Since I've been gone too long, I'd like to ask you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0166par0528	Let's go to the lake together.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0529	I'd like you to see the facility.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0166par0530	Let's go to the lake together.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0168par0531	Mr. Rootsal, I address you, please...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0532	Of course, our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting started a program in Balmahmut, and in Afyonkarahisar. We support that. Of course, we will provide all kinds of support for the handpicking at Balmahmut, and for the handpicking at Afyonkarahisar. In fact, we now have the ORC support of the forest service to the forest villagers, including the buffalo. If anyone is demanding, we especially give them manda incentives.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0166par0533	Let's stop the torph mine from coming out of that meadow there, Mr. Secretary. That's what the peasant wants.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0534	Now, our Mersin MP, Mr. Pineak, is particularly accurate in your identification, so there should be long trees along the roadside. But I'd like to say that there was no activity of the forest organization outside of the woods before -- you know, as mersinli -- and only in the forest area, the slaughter would protect itself from the fire, but for the first time, the forest service with our government has become a service to all of Turkey. As a matter of fact, the roads, the schoolyards, the hospital roads, we're treeing whatever there is, and we're going to continue to plant it. But there may be flaws. As a matter of fact, some flaws are being detected, and friends are taking notes. Please, let us know and we'll take care of it. In fact, I have a recommendation and instructions to plant income-producing species, if possible. I really want to thank you for your warning about this. Sir, of course, Mr. Lightning, you know the Cotton Dam, in short... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If there's no time, I'll give it to you in writing.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0169par0538	Come in, come in... I'll give you an extension in a minute.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0540	In short, you know the cotton dam, it's been auctioned off, but firms sometimes give very low prices. Unfortunately, the first company to buy this facility went bankrupt. Supplies were built. So I instructed my friends -- and this is a very important dam for me -- to hold a cotton dam that would give life to the region until 2019. By the will of God, we will hold the water. He's on my tail, too. I want to stress it specifically. Yeah, the irrigation's already under way. In 2019, if God grants it, the first part will eventually be watered. Yeah, about 5,000 hectares. We're opening 18,463 hectares, 5,000 hectares.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0170par0543	All the land to Mersin is watering.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0162par0544	Let's answer the others in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit02spe0171par0546	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. But I'll take a 15-minute break first.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0171par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 548. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. There are two motions on article 1, which I will process separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the Law Bill 548 is removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştaş Bedia Öz Gökça Ertan Ayşe Acar Başaran Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0172par0015	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0171par0016	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement changes the Law on the Protection of Farmers' Property No. 4081. The current arrangement organises that public institutions and institutions and legal persons will not pay protection allowance if they use private watchmen in the event of agricultural land operations. However, the new arrangement added that protection fees will be paid from those seeking protection services. When a farmer asks the state for a guard to protect his fields of vegetables, fruit, nursery and planting, he is forced to pay a fee for it. That's an added cost to the farmer. The farmer, on the other hand, needs regulations that will lower costs in order for him to participate more in production. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the State Water Affairs General Directorate No. 548 is taken out of the draft of the bill of real or legal persons, which is included in the first joke of the 1st Article of the Law and Law. Orhan Sarıbal Ömer Fethi Gürer Okan Gaytancıoğlu Kamil Okyay Take Engin Özkoch Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0173par0030	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0171par0031	Nüğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0174par0034	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been discussed in the Commission to make changes to the Law on the State Water Affairs General Directorate's Office's Agency and its duties, and the Ministry has insisted that such a bill be withdrawn before it is brought to the agenda. It's a bag of laws, a soup for me, not in it. But there were no provisions for the benefit of farmers, the feeders, the workers, or the benefit of what was in the forest, and the provisions for the removal of the irrigation troops came to the agenda. Dear friends, in the text proposed by the government, the 1st article was to conduct the collection and field development services. While in the form of the Agricultural, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission -- a amendment has been given to the Law on the Protection of Farmers' Property in Article 34. The protection services under this law will be taken in accordance with the demands of those who serve. The Law on the Protection of Farmer's goods must be addressed and corrected in its essence, in today's terms. In this sense, it doesn't make much sense in the context of the regulation, but when we look at the entire bill of the law, there are new fields in the forests that are being built because we see that the places that were removed from the forest quality will definitely be developed at the next stage. The logic of irrigation water involves privatisation. This was discussed intensively in the commission, and eventually a cover was found; the definition was removed from privatisation, but was again brought to the agenda of the Assembly, hiding in an indirectly privatisation clause. Here's the thing: you're taking over the irrigation troops somewhere in the State Waterworks. You eliminate over 14,000 people who exist in the irrigation union council, who are elected by farmers, you aim to run it with people who will be appointed from the public, but indirectly you bring in water, water, water, and water privatisation. So let's eliminate the irrigation units first, then privatize the irrigation water at the next stage. One of the interesting events in the commission was that when watered water was placed in the field, the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism also opposed the material on which debt was cut without supporting it, it was not right to cut it off without supporting it. So within himself, another minister opposed the law, the bill brought by one minister. Again, an interesting incident during the talks with the Commission was also opposed by the representative of the Finance Ministry to organise the creation of the sugar office after the Candy Foundation was eliminated. These arrangements, apparently, have been criticised by the presence of those who approach the event in a different way at the same party, which is not even consistent with itself. For him, the bill that we're meeting today is the fact that he's going back to the Commission and he's making arrangements that the general will accept. For example, he was subject to the assessment of more than half of the land collection arrangement in that area in the past, and this new arrangement is being brought into the land collection without a proper search. During the Justice and Development Party period, in 15 years' work on this, the Department of Agriculture is handing over all its powers to the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs because, frankly, it screwed up. In this sense, the lack of adequate work and the presence of problems naturally brought one-handedness. It began in the 1960s, but the period of fifteen years became a time of debate, and there were objections in many places. This is part of the bill. In short, the provisions remove the existence of farmers and farmers, such as the irrigation union. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just finishing up the last few sentences.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0175par0043	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0174par0044	Dear friends, today is also the three hundredth day of Enis Berberoglu's arrest. We don't know why and why Enis Berberoğlu was in prison. In this regard, I wish the Constitutional Court to make a decision immediately, and I wish Enis Berberoglu freedom. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0175par0047	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions of the same nature in Article 2 that I will process together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework of the Law Bill 548 is removed from the draft text of Article 2 of the framework. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Metiner İbrahim Aydemir İbrahim Halil Fırat Mehmet Doğan Kubat Tahir Özturk The signatures of the other motion are: Merkel Danış Beştaş Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Ayşe Acar Başaran Mahmoud Celadet Güdalı Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan The signatures of the other motion are: Orhan Sarıbal Ömer Fethi Gürer Haluk Pekşen Okan Gaytancıoğlu Kamil Okyay Sündir Engin Özkoç Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0176par0072	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0175par0073	I'm reading the reason for the first motion: Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends gave the reason for the motion: The amendment to Law 6136 is removed from the draft bill, which stipulates that forest conservation officials can receive weapons licenses without tuition after retiring. I'm reading the reason for the other motion of the same nature: The reason for the motion was given by Bilal Danış Beştaş (Adana) and his friends: In this arrangement, the Law on Firearms and Knifes 6136 is added an additional paragraph to Article 7 of the Law Against Other Tools, allowing forest rangers, such as law enforcement, to use firearms. They will be able to carry weapons throughout their retirement. The way to protect the forest is not to arm the forest guards. The forest must be protected by law and law. Throughout its 16-year rule, the AKP has made arrangements to destroy forests with laws and laws and to open forest areas to the plunder of capital. So with this change, we believe that the forests can't be protected, but with these kind of regulations, such as the recent growing individual arms, there are also various groups trying to arm themselves. We predict that this is not true and therefore the matter will be removed from the draft text. Mr. Haluk Pekşen will speak on the final motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0177par0082	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, on September 30, 2010, the United Nations Council of Human Rights made a fundamental decision regarding the right to water and war, which was considered a basic human right. As a matter of fact, the European Union has adopted the basic human right to reach a drinkable water source within the European Condition. Now, when I look at the legal arrangement you've brought here, there's a complete contrast between the United Nations Convention and the European contracts, which both sided with Turkey. The arrangement you made regarding water, which was considered a basic human right, at first seems very innocent. What's it gonna be? Watering troops water their fields, people extract water from their drinking water aquifers. Of course, there's a price to pay; it's not that simple, it's not that simple, it's not that ordinary. Look, after 2010, one of the biggest dangerous issues in the world is drinkable water sources. There are now huge political conflicts and political quarrels, as 2.5 billion people in the world do not have access to the drinkable water supply. In 2030, for example, 30 percent of the world's population would be deprived of drinkable water resources. Now, the turnover that companies around the world are now cashing in the water supply is about 130 billion dollars. In 2020, this figure is estimated at 150 billion dollars. Look, let's combine the data of the World Bank with what a Citibank economist said, and you'll understand what I mean more easily. The World Bank is currently not giving loans to agriculture, drinkable water sources, water infrastructure, but it provides tremendous funding to companies that will run water resources. On the one hand, you're going to take the water and support companies that are going to use it as a commercial meta, and on the other hand, you're not going to provide any funding to access the drinkable water supply. Citibank's economist says that the pipelines for drinking water will be as important in the future as the oil pipelines that we support in the world, and we are going to take these opportunities. Now, I'm looking at it, and it's not innocent in that sense, it's not just any law, it's not sloppy at all. And I don't think it's people who make this law who don't have to deal with it, it's a very deliberate law. What I'm really worried about is that, look, in a few years in the GAP area, the irrigation troops -- not very long, a few years later -- will be bought by these multinational monopolyes in debt, and the farmers there will have to move out of there first with their water money and then with their land, maybe with their land. Is there an obstacle to this? There's no obstacle. Look, I don't want you to take this as a political criticism. I wish we could discuss the scientific conditions here and look at the scientists' reports on these matters. Look at the lakes that dried up in Turkey, and look at how those aquifers dried up. One of the most important lakes in the world is the transfer of Aral (Aral) to cotton fields, and then the total destruction of that lake, and hundreds of thousands of people living in that region leaving the area, and the great, heavy dramas that followed -- yes, and look right next to us, the Iranian Lake Urmiye. There was news in the papers today, too, by chance. At Lake Urmiye, the entire lake was almost dry, the region's economy, the region's agriculture completely collapsed. This law, in this sense, is an arrangement that will really bring serious problems to Turkey in the future, in the sense that it is being organised. Remember, we've been warning you about this many times here. Look, honorable lawmakers, especially when we warned you about these personal data from this parliamentary platform, you didn't listen to us, you passed it without any objections to the law that came your way. But Turkey today is alone in a chain of victims with the recycling and threat of its personal data. You can no longer prevent it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Likewise, if you use this law as a commercial assessment of drinkable water resources and mass water resources, you should know that Turkey has delivered water resources to international monopolyes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll just give me a few seconds, I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0178par0092	I'll give you an extra minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0177par0094	Precious lawmakers, as much as possible as a man of law, I'm trying to stress the laws, the functioning of the law, and the binding of the law on all of us in Turkey at any time of my legal life. Enis Berberoglu is convicted on the conscience of 80 million for the failure of the law and for the failure of the law to bind anyone. Enis Berberoglu is under arrest, but he is a victim of conscience, a victim of all of you. For Enis Berberoglu, no law man can come out and say, "Yes, he is the perpetrator of this crime." Enis Berberoglu is not the first victim in human history, but it is people like Enis Berberoglu who can show courage and courage to take care of victims. I'm waiting for the AKP Group. The AKP Group has very valuable lawyers. A brave, courageous voice, law enforcement, and a victim's death. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0178par0097	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motions accepted, the substance has been removed. There are two motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Diryet Dilan Taşdemir Ayşe Acar Başaran Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0179par0110	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0178par0111	Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0180par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. So I've been promised to express my views on Article 3 but this bill we're talking about is not a bill that the farmer, the citizen, and the people are waiting for a solution to problems, unfortunately. In fact, he has no intention of such a solution, nor does he carry a policy that involves a solution, unfortunately. Every arrangement, or every policy produced in this country, unfortunately, brings a new wrong on this country, and all these wrongs are causing the manufacturer, the farmer, the people, to lose even more, in fact, all of us to become poorer, and perhaps to have other problems that we can't predict. Well, that's a similar design, I'm afraid. Whatever the public, the manufacturer, says, "Don't do it, don't do it." Whatever it is, you're trying to get it into practice, and you're trying to do it. There's no arrangement in this bill that makes the farmer, the manufacturer's face smile. When it's wrong to turn around and encourage production, it's not really the way to choose to take the farmer against the people. So today we're facing the fact that because of these wrong policies, because of these unresolved, problem after problem-making policies, the generation now has to give up production, that it can't do livestock, and we're becoming increasingly dependent on agriculture and animalism. One of the most fundamental issues in this country, however, is healthy and balanced nutrition and therefore agriculture and livestock. Agriculture and animalism also contribute to employment and country revenue, a field that directly determines employment by providing employment opportunities. One out of every four employees today works in this sector, and one third of the population earns a living from this sector. The impact of the production of sugar beets provided by more than a million families is undisputable to the agricultural sector, while today sugar beets factories are being damaged. Dear friends, the reason that today's privatisation of sugar factories is that hundreds of thousands of manufacturers are unable to produce and will be transformed into cheap labor in privatized factories. In this regard, it's not an improvement in a day when sugar factories are damaged or appear to be. As part of privatisation policies, this process has been taken step by step. In this sense, the process that will destroy the beets makers is the last nail to be struck in the coffin. Congressmans, Turkey's climate belt has an extremely rich potential for agriculture and livestock in its geographical location, but for reasons such as follow-up wrong policies, unplanned studies, violent production methods, reset customs taxes on agricultural products, unfortunately, it cannot reveal and use this wealth. In the beginning of these wrong policies, your government does not affect the everyday life of the citizens. As a matter of fact, agricultural activities in the districts are almost at a standstill. Following your government's decision to return to security policies, a frequent ban in the 90s has been reactivated, and many areas with farmland, pedestrians have been banned from entry of the people under the name of private security areas. On July 20, 2016, the State of Emergency, which was declared on July 20, 2016, unfortunately, has brought salt to the problems of the people of the region. I'll give you an example of Van. The governor's office made a statement the other day, and all across the city, 103 districts have banned the crosswalk. You're not allowed to go out on foot, you're not allowed to graze animals in a meadow, you're not allowed to make fertilizer for agricultural production; then you're waiting for the peasant to produce the farmer. At the point where we're here today, Turkey, a country with a highly agricultural potential, imports almost everything from plant production to livestock, from food products to fishing, and in 2017, when the national agricultural policy was launched, we see that nearly $10 billion of agricultural products have been imported within just nine months. Now, in the face of this painful painting, you really need to understand that the farmer, the manufacturer, the people are going to rebel, you need to hear it, but I say that you're far from understanding it, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0181par0126	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 3rd amendment of the 3rd Amendment of the Law shall be made in accordance with the Law on the State Water Affairs General Directorate, which is currently held in 548 rows. Orhan Sarıbal Okan Gaytancıoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Burcu Koksal Kamil Okyay Take The first amendment of Article 2 of the Law on the Agency and Missions of State Water Affairs, dated 3-18/12/1953 (r) in exchange for the price of favourable demands of the 2nd Article of the Law (r), such as water surfaces, ponds and canals, and the maximum water quotas in the reservoir area between the maximum water quota and the operating quotas of the solar energy system, was earmarked for environmental impact appropriation regulations, and I am the subsidiant (i.e., i., i.e., i.e., i., i.e., i.e., i.a.a.a.a., i.a.a.a.a. i.a.a.a.a. i. i. i.a.a.a. i. i. i. i. i.a. i. i.a. i. i. i. i. i.a. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i.a.a.a. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i.e.i.i.i.i.i. i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i.i. i.i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i.i. i. i.i. i. i. i.i. i. i.i.i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i.i.i. i. i. i. i. i. i.i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i ίv) To conduct land collection and field development services Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0182par0140	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0181par0141	Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0183par0144	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I beg Allah's mercy and his family and his family's patience from the village of Balcam to the village of Emirdağ Balcam, who had fallen from the position of Hakkari Dağlıca. Again, we ask Enis Berberoglu, who has been in political captivity for three hundred and one days, who has not been able to fight politics with us under the roof of this House, to act freely and cry out from these platforms. We now want to end this illegality, and Enis Berberoglu, as MP, to carry out his legislature in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as it is required, as we all do. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the republic established the development of our country in poverty on three whites - flour, sugar, cotton. Now, this is processed cotton we're looking at. This cotton was identical to Sumerbank. I'm looking back, Sumerbanka, sold for a dime, and today our cotton imports have reached 72,000 tons because of your wrong policy. You say it's local and national agriculture, but unfortunately you've sworn to wipe out all the products we have in this country in the name of domesticity and nationality. I'm looking at flour and wheat, and we're importing them. The wheat field has fallen from 9 million hectares to 7.7 million hectares in the last ten years. You're obsessed with sugar factories these days, trying to sell them. Look, I've shown beets here before, and I've introduced beets. And that's sugar, because you think you don't know enough, and we put it in our tea, and we eat it, and our lives are essential. This substance, which one person consumes 100 pounds a year, is sugar. If you close those sugar mills, if you lock the door, this sugar will fall on the black market. We're fighting this fight so that this sugar doesn't land on the black market, so that the Turkish sugar market doesn't end up in that synthetic-based poison called the NBS lobby. America wants, you sell sugar factories. You have the right to sell those beautiful factories that provide bread for 2.5 million people as if they were your father's property. You've made an excuse for the citizen. He's making trouble. The tax debt you've forgiven in the last four years is $4 billion. The next thing I know, you're erasing the taxpayer's tax debt, and the next thing I know, you're selling the poor factory that's a breadwinner for a blind penny. The damage to all the sugar factories is $28 million, dear friends, but I'm looking at the tax debt from the contractors you pardon, which is worth closing for a hundred and forty-two years. Besides, the sugar factories aren't actually damaged, they're being made. How? Pain, Alpullu, Wednesday and Susurity sugar factories have not been deliberately manufactured, the costs are the same, they continue, but there is no production. What's it gonna be? That factory will have to damage it because it can't produce it. And that's what it looks like when you spread it around all 25 sugar mills, it's like sugar factories are being damaged. In fact, there's no harm done, there's no harm done, there's no harm done, there's no harm done, there's no harm done, there's no harm done, there's no harm done, there's no harm done. Why? In order for the American-based candy lobby to take over the Turkish sugar market, these factories have an intentional attempt to do or do damage and sell it to the public as a justification. I'm looking at sales in a different way because, for example, the Niğde Bor Sugar Factory's land is only $450 million, but you sold it for $336 million. The Kırşehir Sugar Factory was running smoothly and you sold it for $330 million. And what's interesting is how a company called Passion Foods, founded in 2013 with 300 grand in capital, can buy this sugar factory for $336 million today? Who's behind it, where's the capital coming from? Answer that. Now, after beautiful factories, it's our turn to sell the forests, and look here, this land, this piece of land you want to sell... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need an extra minute.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0184par0153	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0185par0154	Where would you sell the land?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0183par0155	You're selling the land. The 13th article of the bill says that forest products can be sold, including the obelisk in the forest.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0186par0156	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0183par0157	I'm telling you guys to get well soon. Let's appreciate our lungs. Let's appreciate the lungs and forests of this country, please, let's not sell them, let's not pick them up.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0186par0159	My lungs are very strong, and Turkey's lungs are very strong.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0183par0160	And watering troops are highly participatory, democratic structures held by the Supreme Election Board. Now, you're going to terminate these troops, end this democratic process, and take their president and appoint an officer as a trustee. What does that cause? It causes irrigation troops to spread water by political discrimination. Please stop this. Please, I especially ask you to stop privatizing factories, forests, water, trees, sell them, keep them. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0187par0164	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0188par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0187par0166	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0188par0167	Let the speaker gather the land, and then I'll answer, if I may, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0187par0168	I'll listen to you at the same time. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0188par0170	Mr. President, I'm going to put it in restraint. The speaker did the same thing last week. We insist: "Let us keep an eye on the day. " Our government decided last week to lower the quota of starch-based sugar with our group. The limit on the law, which is 15%, has been reduced to 5 per cent.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0189par0172	You've closed down the designated agency.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0188par0173	Wait a minute, listen.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0190par0174	Wait a minute, guys.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0188par0175	The basis for this change was the support and protection of the sugar beets manufacturer, as everyone knew. We're with the manufacturer, we have no problem with the manufacturer, but there's an open tender for the privatisation law of the inefficient, troubled factories. So whoever was demanding it, whoever was involved in the process, was already bided and auctioned. We're with the manufacturer. It's a different matter, Mr. President. And it's been done in a transparent way.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0191par0178	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0192par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0191par0180	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0192par0181	Sir, for the record, it's not the candy workers' fault that the sugar mills aren't run properly. If we support the manufacturer of the sugar beets... I'm the Clumsy Congressman of Sakarya... the Sugar Factory Bank has been sold to Asia... and 60,000 beet farmers have been thrown out. At the time, we said, "Don't sell it, it's not true, it's going to fall into the hands of others." But we didn't let anyone hear it.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0193par0182	The factories will get beets from farmers again. Where's he gonna get it? Who's he gonna get it from? Do we import beets?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0194par0183	You'll shut it down.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0192par0184	The important thing is to run sugar factories right, to run right, in the hands of the government. I can't run it, I'm selling it. It's no excuse.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0195par0185	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0194par0186	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0195par0187	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0194par0188	Mr. President, especially now, he's talking about starch-based sugar, quotas, Mr. Group Deputy Director Bulent Turan.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0195par0189	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0194par0190	Look, it's not enough for us that the quota of starch-based sugar is reduced to 5 percent. This land is a land that is suitable for beet farming. Sugar can be produced in sugar factories in this country, they need to reset this quota, that's one. Second, there is no agency to oversee this starch-based sugar lobby, and you have shut down the KHK and the Sugar Foundation.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0195par0192	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0194par0193	So it's out of control, it's already under-the-stair production.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0195par0194	Thank you, Mr. Koksal, it's not about the sugar factories.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0194par0195	I want this to be especially contained.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0195par0196	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0194par0197	And the power of the Council of Ministers to increase 50 per cent is under way.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0195par0198	Thank you, Mr. Koksal, it's not about the sugar factories, please. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions in Article 4 that I will process according to the order of contradiction: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Diryet Dilan Taşdemir Ayşe Acar Başaran Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0196par0211	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0195par0212	Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Acar Basian.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0197par0215	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, another law has come, and, of course, we're talking about another bill for the manufacturer, the laborer, the public, that enriches capitals again in the forehead, in their interest. Because we know that people like this don't go out on the streets waiting for these laws, someone buys them, and we make the law here, a Parliament that's become this. I think all the MPs need to remember that they're public defenders, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0198par0216	What's that got to do with anything? This law has withdrawn ten times, it's come back.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0197par0217	Why am I saying this now? If you listen, you'll understand why I'm saying this. Please take it easy, Mr. Group Vice President. Now, dear friends, let's look at the AKP era of power. It's a process with the most concrete, most natural plunder. See, one of the most obvious examples was the Zombie Square, which has been on social media for several days. So at the point of destroying what's natural and making artificial, ugly things instead, AKP power is the best, really nothing. I read another article today... when our friend about Hasankeyf spoke today -- Mr. Group Vice President isn't here right now -- and he said it was protected, and his historical structure had been moved and so on. Yeah, Hasankeyf was already an open-air museum on his own, but, you know, like I said, you're better at destroying the natural, beautiful, and bringing the ugliest, the artificial. And here you are, destroying the open-air museum like Hasankeyf, promising an artificial, ugly museum. Because Hasankeyf will be underwater, thousands of people can't do agriculture, which is the only source of livelihood because there is no other job he knows. He won't be able to farm right now because those areas are underwater. So, why are we doing Hasankeyf? So someone can get rich, give them a few more bids, just like Akkuyu. Yeah, in a country where there's going to be a nuclear power plant, it's only the business of a third-class world country to stand up and applaud it.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0199par0220	No way, no way!
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0197par0221	No other country will be applauded for the nuclear power plant right now, my friends. You're trying to turn Turkey into the world's nuclear waste, it's going to be a dump. We've seen in Chernobyl how much of a risk this has to do with both human health and the future of the world, we're talking about creating new Chernobyls, but three days later, of course, since you don't have a habit of accountability, you'll pull yourself out of the business as if you were in the congregation. You guys always do it so well. Now, no agriculture, no livestock, we import meat from the outside, but because we produce weapons, we make it sound like we're doing a lot of work. Oh, by the way, we don't make guns, Legos, you know Legos? Those who remember your childhood know, the pieces are in the box, we bring them together...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0200par0223	You ask the NYD about those guns, to the PYD!
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0197par0224	Your guns are like Legos, you bring in the parts you take from the outside, you put them together.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0200par0225	Ask the PYD about those Legos in Afrin. Ask the PYD in Afrin.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0197par0226	You know very well, don't you? You know very well, you all have plenty of those guns in your homes.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0201par0228	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0197par0229	You've armed the whole country, you're teaching weapons to the chiefs. Look at what you've done to the country! You're still bragging about it!
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0202par0230	Let's hear it for the gun, Mr. President! Let's hear it for his testimony against the gun!
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0197par0231	Give yourselves a round of applause! Give yourselves a round of applause! Anyway, one last thing. I looked at the law on the founding of the Bank of Agriculture, and I think you should open it and read it again, just to see if you noticed. On March 23, 1916, a new law was passed for the Bank of Agriculture. I'll remind you what you're using it for. The first article is called the Bank of Zaraat to provide ease for farmers and to help improve agriculture. It wasn't set up to buy your advocacy media. Let's remind you of that again. So, what good have you been to this community? For the country, you gave trillions of them from a bank built for this farmer to buy the media's press company. Finally, I'll tell you one thing about Batman. Batman has been promising to build a large women and children's hospital for many years, a hospital capable of 500 beds. I wonder why he doesn't have any tenders. From what we've heard, one of your former executives -- we're not saying this -- rant was involved, and if it was built somewhere, others would be richer, you couldn't agree on the location. Batman's waiting to serve, and I'm saying Batman's not waiting to destroy, destroy, destroy his culture, destroy his tongue like you do.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0203par0235	We have done great service to Batman. We've opened Batman Airport!
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0197par0236	I salute you all. I hope you hear the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0204par0240	You keep digging!
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0205par0241	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law shall be added to the draft of the application of the Office of Research and Development, which shall be adopted after the amendment of Article 548 of State Water Affairs General Directorate. Orhan Sarıbal Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Okan Gaytancıoğlu Kamil Okyay Sündir Engin Özkoç Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0206par0255	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0205par0256	Mr Kemal Zeybek will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0207par0259	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Today, we're trying to pass the law that the forest peasant of our country, the peasant, must somehow destroy what's in his hands, be seized. The State Water Affairs General has done good things in the past years, and he's still trying to do good, but unfortunately today's legislation is of no use to the jungle peasant, to the farmer, to the peasant. On the contrary, we're implementing a law against them. Watering troops... what are irrigation troops? Who builds the infrastructure of the irrigation troops? The government does. Who shares and divides amongst themselves for irrigation? He makes irrigation troops. Why are we taking this authority away from them?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0208par0262	The irrigation units aren't working.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0207par0263	The irrigation units are the unity that the farmer chooses between them as the leader of the union or as the democratic one in his own administration.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0208par0264	None of them do, brother.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0207par0265	You will appoint officers to these troops at this time. Whose officer is this going to be, then? Will he become an officer of political power...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0208par0266	Your government will be your government.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0207par0267	Yeah, and we know how government officials have been civil servants so far, you've had them done.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0209par0268	Can't we?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0207par0269	Before 2002, there were government officials, you were right, you were right, but today you took away the civil service of government officials. You've made it a lawless civil servant. That's what you're going to do with the union administration right now.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0210par0270	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0207par0271	My dear friends, these troops, the views of the civil society have not been taken. We already told him about the assignation. Now we're gonna take a test. Right now, the appointment of civil servants... Mr. Secretary, why don't we take a written examination of our officers with a meritateal index? So your county presidents are supposed to be government officials approved in this country? Is that what you want to do? How long will these officers be able to serve? He will perform duties according to orders taken from you. Now, Dear Minister, you're the only reason these irrigation troops have broken their infrastructure. Because by the laws of the city in 2014, you've broken the structure of irrigation troops in the country. You've done all the cities, and he's become a mess of authority, with all the cities being built. Will major cities, cities, or private administrations be involved in the irrigation units? Neither of them are involved. The Ministry doesn't interfere either. There's a citizen out there. What will the irrigation troops do to you? Mr. Secretary, that's not how it works. On the other hand, the forest cadastro commissions remove the authority of the agricultural chamber representatives, the diplomatic mission. I wonder why we're lifting it there. So you set up a forest commission. Won't there be people in this commission, just you? The public representative is the head of the agricultural chamber. Why are you destroying this? Why are you lifting it? On the other side, you'll store under the forest. Why are we building a warehouse? We're gonna move the woods? There's going to be an auction on the obelisks. What this means, valuable lawmakers, is that the tender for the wooded area in the obelisks is to sell the forests. So we're not going to cut down that forest there, we're not going to get it as wood or timber, we're going to do it as an obelisk. Sir, will your followers have these forests, the forests that this country has acquired in the Battle of Salvation, the forests it has acquired in blood? Is that what you want to do? I don't want this to be done in this country, I'm saying it's not true, Dear Minister. Stones, rocky terrain... for what, rocky terrain? Isn't there nuts growing in the rockland, fruit growing, or any other product growing? The rocky landscapes are fertile land, and I know that the more rocky land there is in Anatolia, then let's go collect the stones, collect the stones, so we can make it more efficient. Why would we want to use them in another dimension? Why do we allow Rantists, loan sharks, people who want to invest in this land, people who want to build buildings, people who want to build concrete piles? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0211par0279	Wait a minute, okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0207par0281	Mr. Secretary, if these are to be done now, the irrigation troops have done their duty correctly, but the Ministry has not done its duty properly. The bottom floor is now being created, the watering ground is being built, and all the infrastructure is collapsing on these floors because you're giving the auction to therant shop and to the side, and the buyers are getting out of control of these irrigation troops within a year, they're not being used, they're not being watered down. I see that all the infrastructures in the Bafra, on Wednesday, in the Vezirkörü, in the basin, and in Alaçam have collapsed. These were done in your time. Why are you letting them do this? Why don't you check these followers? You serve these contractors, you deliver the infrastructure. We have the right of all our citizens here, we have the sweat of our own bids. I wish these things to be put to rest, Minister. I hereby salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0211par0284	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in the 5th article, which I will process according to the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the draft of Article 5/5 of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of Article 5/4 of the State Water Affairs General Directorate, which is currently in session, by law and by law. Orhan Sarıbal Okan Gaytancıoğlu Kamil Okyay Sindır Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Engin Özkoç Kemal Zeybek Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0212par0297	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0211par0298	On the motion, Mr. Erkan Aydın will speak. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0213par0301	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you with respect and love. First of all, I salute Enis Berberoglu, who has been unjustly and unlawfully imprisoned for three hundred days, with respect and love. I hope justice will be served, and I say that all those days will not be accounted for by you, and those responsible will not be able to pay for it, and I call upon you here to be free as soon as possible. I have received a pledge from you on the Fifth Amendment of the Law Bill 548 rows. It is measured by the deforestation of a nation's land on the level of civilization. I think we're trying to bring our civilization down with this bill instead of raising its level. But the forest binds the past to the future, teaches us patience, gives us the pleasure of living together, of being useful. The government, with this bill, wants to finish both the forest and the forest peasant. The poorest part of Turkey, as we all know, is a forest peasant. Now, it's a bill that can, unfortunately, eliminate the forest peasant, who's already in trouble, who's already in the lowest income group. The 169, 170 and 171th articles of our Constitution have protected the forest village and forest village and the development of co-optarianism and forest co-opterativeism under its principles. Its goal is to protect the forests through these cooperatives and move them to higher levels. The OR-KOOP (ors) established for these also provide the greatest benefit both to our village and to our forest, with 400,000 members across the country. Forest Law 6831 has also protected the rights of the villagers and those who did it. This bill, which we discussed, is contrary to the spirit of Law 6821, and should actually be withdrawn. Gene, the 40th article of Law 6831 has been changed by setting the conditions for the tender that we see in many places, where, in this bill, the 14th article -- where the forest peasant cannot do it -- where the power of the machine should be done -- to those who have this machine power, or to companies -- which, in fact, are wanted to do it in secret -- where a number of major corporations have entered and machined the bread of the forest peasant, who has three cents in income. So in light of these criticisms, I suggest you don't open any other way to the side contracts here. Consider what the 15-year-old AKP government has done with such crooked legislation. The Finance Minister's own statements, his own data: 10 ports, 81 power plants, 40 facilities, 3,483 don't move, 3 ships, 36 mining fields, 36 mining facilities, and the last sales of sugar factories made yesterday through the sale of blocks, supply and shares in IMKB. Look, people of Niğde, the people of Kırşehir, in their own words, you gave away a sugar factory with only 450 million worth of land to 333 million. The damage from the sale of two of them is 102 million dollars, so 400-odd trillion liras today's dry. These are not your father's inheritances, these are the wages of 80 million, the rights of an undamaged orphan. You might do that by raising your hand here, but in time and in history, this nation will ask you for every penny of it. So, come on, we say turn around when you're near this wrong path. Now, we just counted, you sold everything. What are you selling with this bill now? You sell the obelisks, you sell the water, and you're going to bring a bill here to sell the air that we've finally bought and breathed, and I'm afraid that's the way it's going. But from here, as a forest boy -- my late father was a forest engineer -- he grew up in the woods and grew up in the green... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0214par0312	Complete.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0213par0313	... When it doesn't exist, we'll find out that neither money, nor sale -- that you've given to a bunch of people -- that the income, the wealth there, has no meaning, that we'll understand together, that you've made laws, but we'll pay 80 million of the responsibilities together. So, once again, I remind you of this Turkish proverb that we all know, the old one, the cut-off, the heads off. And I say, "This bill is being sent back to the Commission, especially from here, and I declare that we do not participate in the law."
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0214par0315	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of 548 rows of the Law shall be changed in the form of the Fifth Amendment, which is included in the 5th Article of the Charter. Ayşe Acar Başaran Diryet Dilan Taşdemir Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Meral Danış Beştaş Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0215par0327	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0214par0328	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the material text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in the 6th article, which I will process according to the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 (b) of Law Bill 548 be replaced in the form of amortismana (amortismana) which is under the control of the current Law Bill 548 rows. Ayşe Acar Başaran Diryet Dilan Taşdemir Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Meral Danış Beştaş Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0216par0343	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0214par0344	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to make the text of matter more clear. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added at the end of the first joke (b) of Law Article 6200, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 6 (7) of Article 6 (6) under the framework of Law Bill 548. The facility is not paid for by those who give up the ownership of the irrigation plant from subterranean water irrigation co-ops. Mehmet Naci Bostancı İmran Kılıç Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mehmet Akyürek Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Fehmi Kübçü Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0217par0359	We agree.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0214par0360	I'm reading the reason: Subterranean water irrigation co-ops have been arranged to ensure that underground water irrigation facilities remain operating, maintenance and repair powers and that the cost of the facility should not be paid in exchange for giving up its ownership over the exchange of its ownership to the co-op. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There's a motion in Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştaş Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Diryet Dilan Taşdemir Ayşe Acar Başaran Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0218par0375	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0214par0376	I'm reading the reason: Payments are subject to taxation under the regulation, but the Law on Taxes No. 492 is a subject that the Plan and Budget Commission must take on the agenda as part of the Law on the Taxes of Institutions No.193. Therefore, we think it would be more appropriate for the draft clause to be transferred to the Plan and Budget Commission as a subcommittee. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is one motion in Article 7 of Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the draft text of the additional clause 7 (7) from the draft text of the Law, which is considered to be added to the 8th and 6200th amendment of the Law Bill of 548 rows. Meral Danış Beştaş Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Diryet Dilan Taşdemir Ayşe Acar Başaran Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0219par0391	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0214par0392	Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0220par0395	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the additive of the 8th article of the Framework. Dear lawmakers, the law is called the Law on the Organizations and Missions of the State Department of Water Affairs, but there is a continuation of its laws and regulations. It's a common thing now, we get a bag of laws every time. In a fundamental law, we can't get into a clear debate, in a sectoral sense as Congress, we don't get a chance to evaluate any of the materials properly, because it's kind of added to what's inside the bill. Of course, there's a purpose to all this. When we examine, the main goals of this bill are these, one: How will water resources be used? Who's gonna drive it and who's gonna get it? That's one of the basics. Second, who do we leave the farmland to? To whom will we gather the property and offer it to? Of course, there are two basic concepts, and then there's the collection dimension. Here, while collecting the water in certain hands, who will benefit from the collection that will be collected here as we offer it to a certain number of people? All logic is based on it. Thus, it appears in this clause, as well as in the supplement, that even though the use of water appears to be organised or authorized by the State Waterworks, this water is essentially given to the farmers the need for water that they need because it will be assigned to certain private and corporate people. Of course, the cost of water use will naturally be in the pockets of these private companies. The basic logic is to deliver both the land and the water into the hands of certain monopoly - building monopoly on water and land. Look, theoretically, massing the soil seems to be principlely correct, in terms of Rantability, and in terms of efficient use. So what are these little farmers going to do when we add this up -- especially in watery farmland basins -- and farmers have more and more tiny little soil units, like five acres, 10 acres, 20 acres -- what are they going to do, how are they going to live? This serves to say that these fertile lands that have been massed will eventually be taken away from small farmers and delivered to certain monopolyes. What about these little farmers? Small farmers will also flow west as a cheap labor force to the large capital that AKP has been feeding for 16 years. It's as simple as that. So on the one hand, when the land and water will be served by the monopoly, farmers from this land will also flow as cheap labor forces into the metropolitan areas as subsidizing AKP's large capitals as cheap labor forces. So it is not possible, of course, to resolve the problem through this logic, to address agricultural problems, the fundamental problems of the agricultural sector in this way. The basic problems of the agricultural sector and the main way for small producers to live is to solve structural problems in the agricultural sector. Such structural problems could not bring a service to the agricultural sector without a solution, but as many orator friends have expressed in the world's agriculture sector, Turkey has now faced the fact that it has to import goods and goods from outside in almost every agricultural area. In that sense, I would like to point out that this bill is of no use to farmers. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0221par0402	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the supplement of the 8th article: those who accept... those who do not accept. Subsequent 7 accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 of Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the additional article 8 of Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text, which is envisioned to be added to Law 8 and 6200. Meril Danış Beştaş Suryet Dilan Taşdemir Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Ayşe Acar Başaran Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0222par0415	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0221par0416	I'm reading the reason: It is a provision for the DSI to cover the costs of lawyers for the crime committed by the State Water Affairs General Directorate and for the part of the authorized staff. According to this clause, it makes it easier for DSI personnel to commit all sorts of crimes from irregularity to manslaughter. This was written much more clearly in the basis of the relevant clause. The irrigation channels are a risk to the safety of the people's lives and goods, especially in areas where the settlement is concentrated, using their structures as a means of transportation. As a result of violent mortal events in various places, DSI personnel are charged with "suicide by taxi" in criminal courts and have to make a personal plea in court. Therefore, the task motivation of those who face financial and spiritual difficulties has been negatively affected. For these reasons, it is important to pay the legal fees they have had to pay in the judicial process and support staff for the fulfillment of the duties in the DSI. This arrangement ensures that DSI personnel should not be even afraid of their judicial offense, but that the DSI is behind it. This clause is clearly an incentive to crime. Therefore, it is necessary to remove it from the text of matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article, the 8th article. There are two motions on Article 9 of Article 8 and I will proceed separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal from the draft text of Article 548, which is considered to be added to the 8th article and 6200. Meril Danış Beştaş Suryet Dilan Taşdemir Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Ayşe Acar Başaran Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0223par0433	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0221par0434	I'm reading the reason: With the amendment to the substance, the ability to reunite parts of land that are in different individuals is transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Animalism to the DSI. According to this article, the DSI can be seized without the search for property owned by individuals, farms, livestock, and settlements. That's private property property. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will also be able to hand over the land to the company they want, for the purposes of mining, industry, industrial agriculture, animalism and so on. In doing so, the company, whose name is the project management, will declare its announcements on the deed and other issues from the Internet and from the office for a period of 30 days. If the public has seen these announcements somehow, they'll know. Otherwise, the corporations and the DSI will seize the land they want by collecting land and giving it to the company they want for industrial production. As in water sources, agricultural land is also being taken from the public, followed by private companies, capital. If those whose property has been confiscated or the cost of the seizure or the damage to the seizure are not appreciated, the payment of three months to the person's account is being made legal, whether they want it or not. In this way, property and rights will be eliminated, and companies will be fully authorized and owned. In short, the landowner will be the farmer, the manufacturer, the workers of those owners, the peasants. For all these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the 548th amendment of Article (3) and (7) of Article 9, under Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law shall be changed in accordance with the Law on the Organization and Missions of the State Water Affairs Directorate in which there are 548 rows. (5) We propose and propose that the 5th joke be removed from the draft text of the bill. Orhan Sarıbal Okan Gaytancıoğlu Kamil Okyay Sindır Omar Fethi Gürer Ali Akyıldız Engin Özkoç The Ministry's request and the decision of the Council of Ministers, which it is dependent on, may or may not be carried out by the request of the Ministry of State, or by the decision of the Council of Ministers, can be made available to collect and develop the land within the field. The announcements for the collection of land and field development services are announced on the websites of the project management, which organises DSI or private land collection, with a registered postal notification delivered to the relevant parties, and also on 30 days at the work site of the village or neighborhood chief. The ads made by this clause have been personally submitted to relevant real people, public and private law regulations. A lawsuit can be filed within ten years of registration date against land collection results. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0224par0450	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0221par0451	Sivas MP Ali Akyıldız will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. White Star.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0225par0454	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, the very precious employees of our press and Congress, and the precious bureaucrats of our House, I salute you all with love, respect, and conversation. Before I begin my talk, I greet our MP with love and respect, as our dear friend Enis Berberoglu, who has been held as a political hostage for three hundred and one days, first demanding his freedom from here. Dear friends, I have also taken the oath of the State Waterworks General Directorate on the Law on the Agency and its Missions and on Article 9 of the 8th Amendment to the Amendment in certain Laws and Laws. Now, look, I'm reading from the bill exactly: the State Department's request and the Council of Ministers' decision that it is bound by the Waterworks and that it may or may not be required to collect and farm development services without the request or the maintenance of the property. The problem here, my friends, is that because public benefit status will be accepted, there will be a necessary way to nationalize, and the principle of protection of property guaranteed by the Constitution will be destroyed. In this article, the process of collecting land will be opened without the permission of the landowner, and the summation process will be converted into a land gas. Collecting without the landlord's consent is a violation of property rights. Therefore, the relevant declaration must be removed from this article text and from the bill. But the more dire point is that it is unfortunate that Mr. Minister of Agriculture, who is a complete stranger to agricultural issues, has offered and accepted the transfer of land collection services to the DSI General Directorate of Agriculture Reform. Agricultural Reform General Directorate's existing organization and structural questions will lead to a complex structure and unresolved land collection, which can easily be solved by resolving the existing structure and structural questions, if this item passes. Another fact that needs to be highlighted is that land collection is a very comprehensive special area of expertise, which requires a great deal of self - sacrifice and effort as well as technical knowledge, which requires sensitivity and fairness and trust because the manufacturer's property is being interfered with. He wants to see the state he's confident of his productive neutrality with him all the time. Therefore, all over the world, the contractor cannot be entrusted to the firm. You don't appreciate it when you're working and you're finished. For him, there are no private ceremonies and openings of the land collection. It'll be worth it in four or five years. As a matter of fact, Law 5403 was authorized by the State Water Affairs General Directorate in 2007 to collect land in new irrigation areas. It is known that they are not successful in their work at all, because they do not have the organizational organization required to collect the land. The land, Water, Village Services and Agriculture Reform General Directors have no need to hire technical staff or to raise new technical staff. According to Law 5403, services are being served, but the spirit and content of this law are not being maintained. As a continuation of the habits of irrigation systems, all work is carried out by tendering and entrusted to contractor companies. Please examine the work in the fields, and you'll see the facts. On the other hand, the institution has an excessive profession. Since 1960, agricultural engineers who have brought land collection into the country for nearly 60 years and have worked hard to collect 5 million hectares of land in difficult means and conditions, have been specialised in agriculture engineers who have not been put into the Office of the State Department of Water Affairs. There is not a single agricultural engineer in this apartment in Ankara today. The most important advantage with the state water department's current situation is its experience in managing investment projects, having regional agencies. However, his experience in massing is very weak in Ankara's central and rural structure. My fellow nationals, as a result, in our country, there is a need for experts with knowledge and experience, and large investments, who are equipped, central and rural organizations, to make the best of the opportunity to provide success and sustainability in agriculture, to address structural and production problems first. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing it.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0226par0462	Complete, I'll give you one more minute. Here you are, Mr. White Star.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0225par0464	Thank you. Even if the land collection is transferred to the DSI for today, it is unlikely that it will succeed with the understanding of the DSI today. What's happening is again going to be the land collection that the country has been looking forward to, and it's going to have to start all over again, and it's going to start over again, and it's going to take years of hard work and effort to collect as it did in the past, and it's going to start all over again, and it's going to start over again. The DSI will soon realize its mistake. In light of new experiences acquired after a certain period of time, we also believe that this work will soon be handed over to an institution, such as the land water service, which is an expert and intensive rural organization, which is the co-operation of selfless, different professions. That's why we're offering you the acceptance of our motion. I thank you, I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit03spe0227par0468	Thank you, Mr. White Star. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the supplemental nine of the 8th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-04-10sit04spe0227par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 548. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 112, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, it is Wednesday (April 11th 2018) at 14 p.m. to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Thank you. I bid you good night.
