tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019 and the Central Administration's Final Accounting Bill in 2017. Under the program, we'll be interviewing in round two today. The second round includes the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Energy Market Editorship, the Nuclear Editing Institution, the National Bor Research Institute, the Turkish Atomic Energy Institute, the Mine Research and Research Directorate, the Institute for Miner Earth Elements Research, the General Directorate for Mines and Oil Affairs, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Economics, the Association for Competitiveness, the Helal Accredition Foundation, the budget and final accounts. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 Commission? He's in position. According to the decision taken, the talks on the tour will be promised to conduct to political party groups and to express their opinion in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the second round, I read the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel, Erzurum MP Muhammet Naci Cinisli, Denizli MP Yasin Özturk, Konya MP Fahrettin Yoş, Samsun MP Bedri Yaşar, Kayseri MP Dursun Atash; İstanbul MP Osman Boyraz, Mersin MP Zeinep Gül Yılmaz, Van MP Abdulahat Arvas, İstanbul MP Iffet Polet Polet, MP Hacı Osman Akgül, Burdur MP Yasın, Bursın MP Museri Yasın, Muserımı MP Museri Yasın Adaş; Akbaş on behalf of the group of the EC PARTİ Group, Osman Boyrazı MP Zein Gül Yilmazlı, Kemal Abdımlı Abdulahat Arvas, İstanbul MP İffet Polet Polet Polet Polat, Şeşıtıtıtıpı, Şeşıtıpıpılı, Akıpıpıpıpı, Akı, Akıpıpı, Akıpıpıpıpılı, Akıpıpıpıpıpılı, Akıpıpıpıpılı, Akıpıpıpılı, Akılı Akıpıpıpıtıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpılı, Aktar, Şarıpıpıpıpılı, Aktılı, Aktıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpılı, Aktıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpılı, Akçıpılı, Akçıpılı, Akıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpılı, Akıpılı, Aktıpıpılı, Aktıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıp Congressmans, we're starting with the Good PARTY Group, respectively, for the second round of speeches. Dear friends, before we begin, let me make a statement: there is a decision not to be given additional deadlines in the Presidential Court and the Council of Counsellors regarding the previous budget talks, and there is a decision in 2016. I'm not going to do this very strictly, but I'd like to express my desire for our friends to pay attention to the timeline, to observe it. Because when you look at it as a number, there are about 50 percent speakers; one minute adds up to an hour's difference in time. In that sense, our times are set, and if our friends obey, we respect the law of all of us. Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel. Here you are, Mr. Erel. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0002par0052	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the good PARTI on the budget of the esteemed MPs, the ministers, the valued members of the Commission, the great Turkish nation; the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I salute the grand jury. The ministry continues its work with its mission to make the highest contribution to the country's prosperity by considering energy resources and natural resources efficiently and environmentally for a safe future in energy and natural resources. The vision of a secure future is a beautiful, ideal goal, but in today's conditions, we have concerns, concerns about the safe future. So one third of the electricity energy produced is derived from natural gas, which is taken from the outside by Turkey. Because of the economic, political crises with countries where we have gas, there is also a lack of natural gas. In this case, electricity production will also decrease by a third. How can we talk about the safe future in a situation where addiction is so intense? On 10 May 2010, the government agreed to establish the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant (Akkuyu Nuclear Plant), and a deal was reached with Rosatom. According to the second joke of Article 5 of this agreement, it is clear that the company will be built by the Russian state and will own the company's nuclear power plant. So the company is owned and operated by the Russians. According to Article 4 of Article 5, Russian companies will initially have 100 per cent, and the Russian side's share will never fall below 51 per cent. Again, 20 per cent of the profits from the project company will be paid to the Turkish side at the earliest 15 years after the power units kick in. In this case, how safe the future will be, frankly, is not possible to understand. The safe future in energy lies in our own resources. In Turkey, renewable energy sources must be covered by the largest in the production of electricity, using our own resources. Thankfully, in our beautiful Turkey, where we will give our lives and blood for it, like our ancestors, we have plenty of renewable energy; the sun, wind, waves, hydraulics, biomass, geothermal energy sources are the most important of them. Turkey is perfect for solar energy. Given the number of sunny days, the number of sunny hours, the angle of the sun's rays coming, and the uncultivable land in Turkey, our country has the right conditions for solar energy. Our constituency, Aksaray, is one of Turkey's most suitable regions for solar energy. In recent years, private companies have been contributing to electricity production by building power plants as part of renewable energy sources. The file we presented with the Aksaray Chamber of Commerce and Industry to establish a solar energy organised industrial zone is waiting at the Ministry. Investors, Aksaray businessmen, eagerly await the establishment of the solar energy-related organised industrial zone. Mr. President, honorable MPs, we have created everything according to a measure in the Qur'an. Eat and drink, but do not waste. Our prophet says: "There is no poor man who gives birth." Our ancestors say: "A nail is a shoe, a shoe is a foot is a foot, a horse is a foot is a horse is a horse, a soldier is an army, an army saves a country." Our proverb is the best form of waste. The waste of energy in our country is too great to ignore. I read it somewhere, and if there's more or less, please let me know. The sum of the fixed costs, such as electricity, heating, cooling, and refrigeration of the White House, which Mr. President resides in, is estimated to be equal to one month's heating, cooling and other costs of Aksaray, our province, Aksaray, Aksaray Province, and the districts of Aksaray. We know that Mr. President has come to work with one bite, one cardigan. A president with such a philosophy must end this waste, which we think is beyond his knowledge. Savings in the palace will also lead to the savings of the Turkish nation. Mr. President, there was a 9 per cent increase in natural gas on 1 April, 9 per cent on 1 August, 9 per cent on 1 September, 8 per cent on 1 January, 2.8 per cent on 1 April, 9 to 14 per cent on 1 August, and another 9 per cent on 1 September. So you've increased the housing by about 35 percent and the industry by 41 percent. And for that reason, you showed an increase in currency. But under today's conditions, the exchange rate has dropped by close to 20 percent. Why don't you lower the price of electricity and natural gas that you've raised in exchange for the increase in exchange for the exchange you're bragging about?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0003par0060	It doesn't work out for them.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0002par0061	Again, it's a waste of time for the state to buy VAT from many luxury consumers, while the VAT from the poor and the poor to receive VAT from electricity, which is the basic requirement of the poor. In order for the poor to breathe a bit, the electricity must be removed from the VAT. According to the Turkish nation's understanding, the state is a father; the father does not discriminate between his children. Today, however, there are 65% reductions in electricity used in agricultural irrigation in Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Batman, Siirt, Şırnak. The aim of this practice is to prevent trafficking according to the statement of the authorities. So I ask you, what is the sin of a farmer who does not stoop to trafficking in electricity used in domestic irrigation, in Çukurova, in the Aegean, in the Black Sea, in the Black Sea, in Thrace? You want them smuggling, too? You want him to steal or smuggle to take advantage of the sale? Either apply this discount to all farmers or eliminate this inequality. Mr. President, you're asking the high-value lawmakers to sacrifice the bagel shop, the shoe store, the grocery store, the grocery store, the business man. It's the citizen who's sacrificing, the state who's enjoying it. Can't the government sacrifice a little of its joy, luxury, luxury, or not? Do you want citizens to do it all the time? The citizen couldn't afford to wear a belt, a belt, and a pair of pants. What more can the citizen do? The so-called mega projects, such as bridges, tunnels, and highways, have already paid for $8 billion in cash, which you have guaranteed your followers by saying, "There will be no money in your town." Uncle Cumali, from the village of İncesu of Aksaray, pays for the Javuz Sultan Selim Bridge, which he has not passed. Mehmet Emmi of the village of Altınkaya, Aksaray, who is from the village of Altınkaya, pays the price for the Osman Gazi Bridge, which he does not even know its place. Uncle Ali of Saratlı district of Gülsaray Province, Aksaray Province, pays the dollar for the Eurasia Tunnel, which he cannot even pronounce his name. Nihat of Kullköy district of Sarıyahşi district of Aksaray Province is covering the gap of the city hospitals, guaranteed by a patient he has not passed by. My brother Yilmaz, from the village of Borcuru of Aksaray, has added his night to his day to cover the gap of Zafer Airport, which he has not even gone over -- because the traveler is guaranteed. What more can the citizen do? Basically, he's paying for the plane he's not on, the hospital he's not on, the tunnels he's not going over, the bridges, the highways. You know, as you say, nothing was done before. In hospitals that used to be built, only people who were treated paid the price. In the old days, only those who took advantage of bridges, bridges, tunnels paid for what you call nothing. Like today, people were not responsible for the bridge they did not cross, the hospital they were not treated for, the plane they did not board. Again -- we called it the bridge today -- because of a system-related malfunction at Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, there was no harm. Some of them were taken from the box office and some came later. He's crying. I sold my car, I sold my bus, I couldn't get rid of my debt. He says, "Do I have to die to get rid of this bridge debt?" You know, you're saying that nothing has been done in the past. I'm just saying that nothing has been done in the past. You've made $70 billion in income by selling anything from the time you call it cheap. Once again, you have made 70 billion dollars in income by selling nothing of what you call an era. As expressed by my discreet AK PARTY friends and a large majority of the great Turkish nation, this election will be the last choice of the EC PARTY. So, while you're replacing political power with your successor, for the sake of God, O government, when you're forced to sell these, can you show me a few works you can call them? I'm asking, correct me if I'm lacking. So nothing's been done. You've earned $70 billion from the term called the era, but show us a few pieces from your era that we can sell when we're in trouble, and I'll apologize.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0004par0068	Aksaraya didn't go in his life, Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0002par0069	Again, there is a city of Topakkaya, a beautiful city built by Civil Berk. There's the Darşat from our army, he says: "I'm going to open a restaurant along the way. Can I open a restaurant with a customer guarantee? I have students who are architects and engineers, and they say we want a guaranteed office. The truckers who don't run out of anger want a truck guaranteed, and they say: "Let this privilege for allies and contractors also be known to the innocent, pure, populous people of Anatolia." Mr. President, I have statements from our President, the mayor who claims to have divided Ankara into a parcel, from the period when the EC PARTI was having open or secret sex with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), from the time when he was traveling together, from the time when he had good dreams.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0005par0071	Does it look good on you? Shame!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0002par0072	It doesn't suit you, it's true! But someone came up with something from here, looking in the mirror. Remember, the blood in the veins of the torrent was in the veins of 40 people. Today, the good party will continue to fight with the spirit of the 40th. I wish these parties could talk about not being taxed on minimum wage, raising minimum wage to a level of human dignity, and resolving the problems of paid teachers who have been exploited for years, rather than accusing each other of this. Dear MPs, we thought we'd save money as good parents, not save money in public." You said. With that understanding, you squandered it on people to the point of drowning, dragging them into debt. We said there was the most violent crisis in the history of the Republic, we said, let's be one, let's be together, we're all on the same ship, we're supposed to take this ship safely to port, but there's no crisis in Turkey, there's no manipulation of the economy." he said. Again, we're at the first three places in the world, we're writing a success story." As we explain, a friend of ours is not on the stand, and by "crisis," unfortunately, his brother has to declare a concordate at the textile factory in Denizli. Again, we have a voter who will believe if our president says, "I'm going to build a four-way road to the moon." "Energy of the period, the current Minister of Finance thinks that when writing the so-called success story, it will not be as much as 33% of the electricity bill increased in the last year, but rather the TRT share of the TRT, which has been unfairly reflected in the bill, which is now broadcast to the private television, which is now in the direction of power, which is almost as much as 18 per cent of its service to TRT. In Ortaköy, the farmer Mustafa heard from the government during every election period since 2002, and our planes are flying in the sky, native...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0006par0075	Mr. Erel, what should we do?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0002par0076	It's all yours, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0006par0077	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0002par0079	We promised that Turkey would fly, gas and gas would get cheaper, we said we'd be number one.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0007par0080	The Aksaray airport was not built, nor was the Niğde airport built; they said so.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0002par0081	Over the past year, he thinks about how to plant more than 100 per cent of fertilizer, with 87 times the price of diesel. Again, from Aksaray Fatih neighborhood, retired Fatih is thinking about how to heat his house with 35 per cent of gas raised in the last year, how to cook your vaccine. Thank you very much. There's something to say, but I don't want to push your patience. I salute the grand jury. I didn't do the unbecoming.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0008par0086	Thank you. Now for Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli. Here you go, Mr. Cinisli. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0009par0091	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, I have made a promise in the budget of 2019 on the esteemed MPs, the Energy Market Editorial Foundation and the National Bor Research Institute. I salute our High Council. While investments in the energy sector are large-scale and comprehensive, their costs and risks are high. Energy is hard to store and the continuity of energy supply is fundamental. Under these conditions, the EPDK was established as an autonomous institution for the liberalisation of energy markets, for the creation of competition, for consumers to reach quality and cheap energy. Instead of the daily direction of politics, market conditions are intended to guide the energy sector. In this context, there was also a period when the institution carried out its duties. And today, is the EPDK acting independently, autonomously, independent of the Ministry of Energy? Do tariffs or licenses show transparency? It was possible to answer these questions positively in the past, but the audit of autonomous institutions was left to ministers of a Turkish Cypriot who were released in 2011. With such regulations, it is clear that power is involved in the free market process. The pricing of production and distribution activities of the EPDK, created as an autonomous structure, has been under the influence of the government for a long time. Unfortunately, the tariffing processes that need to be created on cost-based basis are not transparent. Dear lawmakers, the EPDK (EPDK) must act in accordance with the principles of transparency and accountability, otherwise the competition targeted under free market conditions will not be able to reach goals such as increasing, lower prices. Suspicions on the accuracy of the information that companies pass to the EPDK are being tried to resolve by asking for more information from companies. However, the EPDK must be removed from a position that monitors companies at all times. Companies should be developed, more practical, result-oriented control methods that are easier to observe. In the decisions taken by the EPDK, the judicial path is clear, but the length of their trial period is also known. The extension of the trial period or failure to collect administrative fines has weakened EPDK's control function. For example, according to the Court's report published in September 2018, only 2.5 per cent of the administrative fine issued by the board for nearly 3 billion $755m during the last five years is available. It has also been determined that two thirds of the administrative fines are on the way to the judiciary. It is also stated that there is no objection to the sentence, or that the administrative fine worth about $1 billion,264m can't be collected, even though there are no legal barriers to the collection. If these fines could be collected, which amounted to large sums, there would be an important resource in the general budget, which is funded by high interest debt. In order to protect the financial autonomy of regulatory and regulatory institutions such as the EPDK, it is estimated that they will be subject to certain substances of the Public Financial Management and Control Law. The Law Bill on Editors and Controller Institutions was drafted by the Council of Ministers of the period and presented to Parliament in 2004 in order to organise and form an application union in all autonomous institutions, but the bill was not on the agenda for the past 14 years. If we want to actively discuss the management and accountability of the EPDK (EPDK) in the budget context, we must immediately discuss this bill on our agenda. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, over-extreme electricity, gas bills in my hometown of Erzurum and other counties are in conflict with social government understanding. One of the main tasks of the state is to meet the basic needs of its citizens, such as warming, enlightenment. According to the electricity distribution sector in Turkey, the prices the companies pay for distribution zones appear to be quite high. As a result, many distribution companies are suffering from foreign currency debts. An important part of the energy companies that are able to continue to operate because the BDDK allows these loans to be restructured is in fact bankrupt. The fact that local and foreign investors are not compatible with the official number of subscribers and the actual number of subscribers, that data are not prepared realisticly from missing fugitives to transformers, is driving local and foreign investors away from the sector with surprises they experience. He collects from government citizens what companies can't collect. The government, on the one hand, complains that it can't read an embarrassing meter, but it gives the burden to our citizens, who can read the meter and power. An example of the political dimension of the electric sector is the share taken from electricity bills and transferred to TRT. Which TRT? People's TRT? No, it's the TRT. In addition, statements have said that all 81 city centers of our province in 2018 have started using natural gas in their dwellings, but many of my countrymen are still waiting for the natural gas road, although natural gas distribution has been launched years ago in my home town of Erzurum. For example, the natural gas line is not being distributed and delivered, although there is a demand for it to pass through and through the Kandilli, which is linked to Ashkale. So, what happens if it's done? Erzurum continues to use expensive natural gas, while Baku-Tiflis-Erzurum is on the pipeline route. Our human being is forced to emigrate because of the expensive life of heavy winter conditions. I warn you: Erzurum will soon come to us as a national security problem, the immigration problem of East Anatolia. Finally, isn't it the greatest example of injustice that natural gas is being given below the price of imports to a certain number of people, and another part is taking on the cost that has arisen? The state's sale of natural gas at subsidized prices has led to an actuation in one market to other markets. These and other wrong practices make it difficult to achieve the desired activity in the energy sector. Dear MPs, in this part of my speech, I would like to express my views on the National Bor Research Institute (BOREN). Boron products are used in a vast range of space and air vehicles in more than 250 areas, such as fuels, building materials, health, glass industry, agriculture, nanotechnology, automotive and energy sectors. More than 70 per cent of the world's boron reserves are in our country. With a reserve less than 10 per cent from our country, there are borons in Russia and America. At the latest, however, the debt reserves found in these countries are expected to run out within 40 years. It's one of the factors in our country that value the value of the boron ore. In 40 years, our country will be the only country in the world to have the largest resource with its boron reserves. In this context, we need to view BOREN (BOREN) as superior to parties in order to look more securely at the future, achieve economic prosperity, and create values from the commercial value of boron products. Our reserve and supply advantage in the borscht area has been accepted by the entire world. If we can add efficient, innovative investments, sectoral cooperation, we'll get a very important national asset. Let's not just be remembered for extracting the boron ore from the ground, but to bring our scientists together, to improve the ability to develop research and to develop the boron products. On the basis of national science and technology policies, let's set plans with a policy-based strategy. In particular, let us produce boron solutions that allow most of the boron products to be used as additives in most applications. Dear lawmakers, our country's total mining export is at $4.5 billion a year. But the countries we export to, after they take the boron ore from us, turn it into a chemical state and use it as a meta. What we can't do, what we can't produce, is produce boron solutions that China and other countries like them make a lot of value to add to our raw materials. So, what's it going to be like when the pipe becomes a additive? With the development of research and development opportunities, of course. Under the Law on Mines to Run State, Turkey is run by the General Directorate of Mines of Meat, which operates boron mines. In this context, the Mining Company has made a lot of investments over the years. For example, between 2001-2014, he invested $1 billion in $240 million, but he made more than $7 billion. So, what happened today? In January 2017, the Council of Ministers ruled that the Eti Mining Corporations be transferred to the Turkish Entity Fund. Although the Entity Fund defines itself as developing Turkey's strategic assets, increasing its values, it is too important to be a portfolio to the Boron operating asset Fund, it is the future of all of us. I hope that in efforts by the Entity Fund to obtain money from foreign financial circles, the Mines of Meat is not used as a countermeasure. BOREN's budget has been very limited according to its potential. In 2017, 15 million liras were estimated at $12.5 million for 2018, the budget of BOREN (BOREN), which was $16m in 2018. How does BOREN develop with this small budget that is reserved for him, and with this budget, does BOREN employ qualified scientists, or does it develop laboratory infrastructure for RD? Dear lawmakers, we've left an institution that we should value like our eyeballs, and then we expect almost miraculous successes from it. About BOREN, we call it the future. BOREN's own service building still does not exist, and the number of staff is insufficient to engage in RD activities. It's also a big question as to why BOREN's budget has so far not been allowed to strengthen research development labs, equipment infrastructure, and increase human resources. Unfortunately, with this budget, the institution can't cover its shortcomings. I would like to stress the need to give the importance of human resources, the most important investment for the development of an institution worldwide, and to give it a share of the budget. BOREN employees need to be able to specialize in service training and in private areas. It's an important step towards mastering foreign scientists coming to our country and training in the event it's appropriate. Research visits to leading countries in the sector allow competent staff to grow in educational programmes. But how will we provide participation in national and international scientific events with this low-rent budget? I'd like to bring a few more things to your attention while I put an end to my words. We need to get our people to know about the boron as soon as possible. It's essential that such promotions be considered and considered when the budget is being created, to build our future. In addition, we need to predict funding for teaching programs on borons in our schools, at our universities. We must take measures to ensure that there are no financial resources problems in finding incentive mechanisms in project support. In particular, we need to ensure that the lack of information and awareness work is attempted without any financial defects. In our country, it is in the best interest of all of us to develop the bora-based industry, to increase efficient and innovative investments. For these reasons, I'd like to point out if the budget has been properly assessed or not. I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0010par0113	Thank you. Now, the other speaker is Samsun MP Bedri Yaşar. Here you go, Mr. Yasar. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0011par0118	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Ministry of Commerce budget. Before I begin my words, my condolences to Altug Verdi, who has been martyred in his office, by God's grace, and by the urgent healing of the wounded, and to his relatives. According to the calculations made by universities and related circles, Turkey's economic growth average is 4.5 per cent from 1960 to this side. I regret to say that when the year 2021 is complete, economic growth from 2011 to 2021 seems to be the worst ten years of growth in the world. Turkey was in the world's 16 largest economies in 2002. During the last 16 years, Turkey, unfortunately, fell into the 17th place of a subdivision at the time of its arrival. You were aiming for the 10th ranking of the world economy for Turkey among their 2023 targets, but in the remaining five years, we see that reaching that goal is not even a dream. Therefore, it is time and time for us to review everything, including structural reforms, and put more realistic figures and goals in front of Turkey instead of speaking brilliant words. As our President said, we have no chance of catching the exchange rate target, no inflation target, no bank interest target; none of the numbers are as predicted. Our dry target in the year 2018 was around 3.8. Today it was 5.34. The interest target was below 10 per cent, and today the interest rates in banks are 30 per cent; so let there be love for anyone who finds it, who buys it, who solves it, who uses it. In the same way, the inflation target, again, was in one-digit figures, but in the numbers given today, inflation is above 24 percent. So it's almost impossible for the trader to compete with these figures today. Likewise, as these growths take place, we expect the unemployment rate in Turkey to drop downwards. Unfortunately, in Turkey, we see that these figures are unrealistic, that unemployment figures are not backward. Today, the youth population has an unemployment rate of 20 per cent. If the government can't achieve its goal with its predictions, how can a merchant achieve its goal? The government needs to set goals in front of the merchant man, and in the framework of these goals, the shopkeeper, the merchant man, and the farmer must meet their goals. And since these goals don't hold, we can see that the main reason for the problems in the market today is that these goals don't hold up. And under the circumstances, it doesn't take a genius to see us getting about 20 percent poor. Again, when we look at export targets in 2018, we say we're going to achieve our export destination of around 170 billion dollars. It's about 165 billion now, but it's important to say that if we think that the export of only Dutch agricultural products is over 100 billion, we see that our numbers are not very meaningful compared to the size of our country. We're talking about recent imports being narrowed down by the rate of exports. I personally attribute it to the use of our exporters' stockpile, and when these goods are finished, I expect the scissors will be opened again. So these numbers make us laugh today, but they're not continuous; as in other numbers, hopefully in the future, we'll get these numbers. With the numbers we have now, we're clearly behind the world. In order for us to take a step forward, we need to increase the competition first. The country's economy has failed to boost its global competitiveness, and as a result, all indicators have been turned upside down. When we look at China today, it's one of the states that we've all been modeling everywhere with a population of 1.5 billion, six or so. But let's not forget that China today has almost as many employees working at its embassies as in trade attaches to countries around the world. When you look at it from our point of view, the total number of our trade attaches in the world today includes the tatashes and their aides - 336. Today, our trade attaches, our exporters, our investors have to pay as much as possible in countries where they have all kinds of offers and demands. When a foreign businessman goes to a country today, trade attachés make appointments with their businessmen, booking hotels; he has to do all sorts of interviews, interpreter services, it's a duty. But I don't want to tell you all about our trade attachés here -- but there's still an important part of it in the official mentality that you go through a lot of trouble just to make an appointment with them. In the same way, bank loans... in the international arena today we especially need to get revenue from abroad, we need to increase activities there. All the countries of the world go there on their own credits, trade there with credits provided by their own country. We have an Eximbank that supports exports. In order for the exporter to get a loan from Eximbank today, he has to get 20 percent more mortgages, he has to find this mortgage, and he's going to go through 50 transactions, and he's going to export it from Eximbank. We need to get these formalities out of the way of our exporters. We need to get the Eximbank loans as far down as possible. We don't think exports will increase by prioritizing 10 or 20 companies. These kind of loans and resources need to be spread to the ground. Again, there are incentives for the development of the country. You've made his name as much as we can remember the number of incentive laws, you've created incentive programs, and none of them have worked. Today, the industry - as we all see - became concentrated in the Marmara region. It's a risk in every way, a strategic risk. We've all seen together how much impact trade and economics have at some point -- in the 2000 earthquakes before this, as we have seen in the 99 earthquakes -- has been. So, I'm not going to say review these incentives, you've already brought incentives for 16 years, it's been useless, but for the future of the country, we say that not only are there incentives for regional or borough boundaries, but give as many point incentives as possible. Today, any district of Samsun is no different from a district in the southeast. So as long as you categorize the investor there, such as the 1st, the 2nd, the 3th district, we see that these investments do not spread throughout the country. Again, as of today's situation, there's no need to explain the tradesman's situation. We see together that when you go to the market, there's no money in the market, banks have a tendency to collect loans, and they put a lot of obstacles to even using existing loans. You're trying to control the prices by the police. Friends, you can't set a price on something you don't know what the cost of producing is when you don't have the cost of it. You don't know the production inputs of a product on a shelf in that store, but you're trying to put a price on that shelf, you're trying to get a price. It's not something that can happen in the free market economy. If you, as a government, produce something, and you deliver it to the market by the dealerships, if the profit margin you put in doesn't fit, then you can apply all kinds of sanctions, all kinds of obstacles, but you can't control a product in the terms of the free market economy. We hear it from time to time, and he calls the police, and he says: "Is it possible that the tomato in our grocery store is $7??" The police say: "Let me come and shop there wherever it is." So you can't control the market and the market in this situation. In the same way, when you look at the pens that we export, we have exports based on raw materials in particular. Our speaker friend just told us, we're exporting the pipe raw.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0012par0133	Mr. Yasar, let's wrap this up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0011par0134	I am, Mr. President. On our visit to Hakkari, a brother there said: "We export the zinc to Iran at $200-250, 2,700-2. And at $800, we're buying pure zinc again. So instead of exporting raw materials, this country needs to start exporting processed products as soon as possible. That's what it's like in nuts. We export the nut at 10-12 liras, return from 45 to 50 liras and get it back as chocolate. So we have a obligation to produce high-income products. And we need to get the incentives for that as soon as possible. In addition to that, the software industry, the IT sector, we've seen on our last trip to China, the number of people working in a company that does only phone, IT and software functions is $70,000, exports are $13 billion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0013par0139	I'm going to add that time to that, Mr. Alekalioglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0011par0141	So there's a significant difference between the money you spend specifically to provide software and employment in the IT sector and the money you spend in the investment-profit sector. So we especially need to focus on software, computing, we need to create brand values. Finally, I'll tell you this: there are statistics, you all see that. In the last decade, Turkey has published the first 100 companies every year; here are the first 100 companies of 1989; 2000, 2010. Look, in the last decade, you will see that a significant portion of the companies in the first 500 is not today. Therefore, economic disturbances and irregularities in Turkey put companies in serious trouble. Today's trendy phrase also came up with a concordate. Look, thousands of companies alone with the concordato. It is not enough for them to declare concordato; it is difficult for companies to sell them goods, buy from them goods, and operate over them. I hope that our Minister of Commerce will take into account all of our views, and in 2019 we will be facing an active, courageous, well-stepped Trade Minister and his program. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. President. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0014par0148	Thank you, Mr. Yasar. Now it's time for the confederate, Fahrettin Yoshış. Here you go, Mr. Hill. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0015par0153	Mr. President, on behalf of the well-being party, I salute you all. We're here to express our views on the Institute for Mine Study and the General Directorate for Oil Affairs. Dear lawmakers, energy is a basic human right; it is an important input clause in both the quality of the household and production. When we think that our country's underground resources, such as oil, natural gas, are scarce, our economy's need for energy to produce both current deficits, as well as growth, emerges as an important limit. In the years when energy prices are rising around the world, Turkey's economy faces inflationist pressure as well as its negative effects on economic growth. So today, the security and sustainable energy supply has strategic importance. The recent developments following the Russian plane crisis, the crackdown of the embargo on Iran, have left Turkey vulnerable to foreign policy. At this stage, there are choices that need to be shaped by global climate change and regional political risks. Turkey should be planned for a medium and long-term investment in renewable energy or traditional fossil fuels and nuclear energy and followed as a national state policy. In terms of solar energy and wind energy, a system of incentives should be established to ensure that the production of technology is carried out by local industry, and the country should use natural resources efficiently. Turkey's import of photovoltaic solar panels in the last two years has reached $6.1 billion, and if the sector continues to grow at this rate, the import in this area will find $40 billion in the next five years. So it seems possible that panels that cost 40 billion dollars could be produced in a much cheaper country. While the party is not categorically opposed to nuclear energy, it is observed today that nuclear energy in the world has reduced its importance compared to other energy alternatives. On 10 May 2010, the government agreed to establish the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant (Akkuyu Nuclear Plant) and thus made a deal with Rosatom (Rosa) in Russia. According to Article 5 of this agreement, the company will be established by the Russian state to carry out the project, which is clearly owned by the nuclear power plant, including electricity produced at the nuclear power plant. So the company is owned and operated by the Russians. Again, in Article 5 (4), the project states that companies authorized by Russia will have a 100 per cent share directly or indirectly initially. In addition, the Russian share will never fall below 51 per cent, while the distribution of the remaining minority shares will be left at the mercy of Russia to protect Russia's national security and economic interests. Again, in one of the terms of the contract, 20 per cent of the profits from the project company will be paid to the Turkish side at the earliest 15 years after the power units kick in. The cost of the proposed project is 4.8 megawatts per unit -- 25 billion dollars. While the project is under construction, while the Russian company has tried to acquire some domestic or foreign partners, its desires have not been fulfilled, so it is unlikely that this project will be completed in the foreseeable time. Turkey is in a highly negative position today on energy costs. In particular, consumer complaints have increased greatly since the rise in August and September. Although the electricity distribution sector was privatised by demand and direction of the IMF (IMF) following the 2001 crisis, privatisation is under the control of the state. These price hikes not only reduce the standard of living where the households cover its budget, but cause production reductions due to input increases in the industry. For example, from the distribution system users, these are the one-year retail price of one-year retail, 86 per cent retail, 89% per day, 73 per cent retail rate of energy. These costs are bilateral. 26 per cent in single term, and 93 per cent in low tension in single term, and 96 per cent in retail day energy. The Turkish industry is not able to lift that burden. Dear lawmakers, false energy policies can reduce Turkey's national income by 50 per cent. Analyzing the Earth Association and the British Thought Association's Project for Low Carbon Development Policy for Turkey also shows that Turkey's coal policies have significant economic risks in the long run. Turkey's current coal power will be around 17.3 GW and 60 GW boards based on imported and domestic coal, along with new coal fields said to be activated for electricity production in the planning phase. According to analysis, the total cost for these projects to be launched and to be launched within the last ten years would be 152.8 billion dollars. This means that if we go with this understanding, if we don't choose the alternative renewable energy path, Turkey will suffer losses that have reached 21 per cent of its current income. On the other hand, Turkey will not change its current climate change policies, and if it does not prioritize climate change plans and programmes, its national income will be reduced by 50 per cent in 2050. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the Afshin-Elbistan Termic Plant is unfortunately transferred to the private sector, its personnel are considered off-duty, they are still not working. Again, it is employed as the hiring of more than 200 engineers serving at the Mining Study and Search General Directorate. It is not acceptable to employ the services of engineers in our country's most important institutions as tens of thousands of civil servants are appointed a year. Most of the senior bureaucrats serving in the energy ministry's production institutions are appointed from almost all outside the institution, from municipalities or subsidiaries. Appointments from municipalities or subsidiary holdings demoralize the morale and motivation of the staff who have served in these institutions for many years. The General Directorate of Mining Affairs, which is tasked with tracking mining licenses in our country, is now MAPEG, now run by non-engineer administrators during the AKP ruling period for years. Hamdi Yıldırım served as the General Manager of Mining Affairs for more than two years. These people are not engineers. Of course, there are no legal barriers, but I'd like to give you some appreciation for how much someone who's not a mining engineer or a geology engineer can contribute to this institution. The Mining Company has also been transferred to the Entity Fund. Why did you include an asset fund that produced about $1 billion and exported 98 per cent of the products produced here, giving clear deposits to around 400 billion treasures a year, laying golden eggs? Or do you intend to give this institution to the Qatars in exchange for the plane you received from Qatar?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0016par0164	That's not funny.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0015par0165	Chrome is a mine with no recycling in its junk and a basic entry into heavy industry. We have the richest chrome beds in the world in our country. The chrome ore in our country is being transformed into ferrochrome in Elazıg, a high-carbon ferrochrome plant with a capacity of 150,000 tons/year, and in low-carbon facilities in Antalya. But the AKP's government privatised these two factories in 2004, along with the minefields.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0017par0167	It sold for free, it's free.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0018par0168	Mr. Yosh, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0015par0169	The companies that buy these two facilities make more money by exporting raw chromite ore instead of producing high-profit ferrochrome. Whereas our country's ferrochrome facilities are aimed at building integrated stainless steel facilities next to it, even our ferrochrome facilities are operating at a low capacity. Does your government have a policy on stainless steel production? Natural gas and electricity prices are still high. All Januarys except a few coal mines from Turkey's Coal Company Rabbit, Soma, Chandar have been privatised. Do you plan to privatize these stoves? Near all coal mines in the Turkish Stone Coal Zonguldak basin are either in wait or inefficiently employed in the form of service. Bad management in the mine, bad management, fun management. TEDAS, TECHNICS, all the same thing, technicians, victims, waiting for 3600. The MTA administration, as in many other public institutions, is run by incompetent administrators. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The agency doesn't have any scientific work, it's run by pressure. We're not on oil yet.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0019par0174	It's over, your last words. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0020par0176	Take it from the other friends, too, if you'd like.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0021par0177	They'll give it to me. Mr. Yavuz...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0022par0179	If he's in the oil industry... Okay, sir?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0023par0181	Finish it, of course, let's not give it a second time.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0022par0182	Anyway... next time I'll take care of it, don't worry, next time.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0023par0184	Thank you, Mr. Uphill. Now it's time for Denizli MP Yasin Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0024par0189	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group to assess the budget of 2019, under the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency for 2019. Before I begin my speech, I would like to ask Allah's mercy on Altug Verdi, who has been martyred in his position, and his condolences to his relatives and to the Turkish nation, and to our wounded law enforcement members, the immediate healing of the Genab. In the ministry's budget presentation, fundamental policies include reducing external dependence on energy. It's also an absolute strategy for our country's economic values. However, in view of the practices, it is clear that this correct principle has not been set any distance from its fulfillment. In our country's current deficit, a secure and sustainable energy supply is extremely important to reduce energy imports, which have an important share in its growth and is one of the obstacles to growth. We need to get rid of as much outside dependency as possible. The topic of preferences is whether we prefer renewable energy or nuclear energy, which is extremely important. According to the ministry's budget presentation, international agreements and the acquisitor of the European Union predict the independence of the nuclear regulatory organisation. In this framework, the process of establishing a nuclear regulatory institution in order to license nuclear facilities, control nuclear technology and continue its work is said to be necessary, and the process of forming a Nuclear Editorship is under way because of the responsibilities of Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for implementing the principle of dissolution of forces. Remove the separation of forces in the democratic state administration, and in the nuclear arrangement, state that you will use the separation of forces; you will only deceive yourself. It has not been reduced to the Commission, although it has been mainly transferred to the Commission for Information and Technology, established under Article 702 of the Law of July 2, 2018. In particular, in the current resolution, Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency is now only concerned with the storage and disposal of radioactive waste, and its research-improvement activities, its work. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency, which allows us to import radioactive materials, cannot control this amount of radioactive raw materials; Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency, which defines itself as a regulator, does not even need to make that inspection. The purpose of an institution that can't even operate, which can't detect radioactive activity, which is smuggled in, is being eliminated. And instead of being full-fledged with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the removal of the authority of the institution would have been great if it weren't for those nuclear materials. In the 6th article of this decree, the article (2) is entitled to retrieve the remaining nuclear waste after the major radioactives of the nuclear waste were removed abroad after the Akkuyu nuclear plant was activated. It is said that the cooling waters that have been poured into the seas can only remain radioactive for a few seconds, and that they are not fully cleansed. These coolant waters pass through reactors and hundreds of metres of pipes before they come into natural areas. Radioactive bullets, chromium, cobalt particles are mixed in these waters from the reactor and the pipes themselves, and they are radioactive for years. Not necessarily an accident in nuclear plants for radiation leaks, but in the normal day-to-day working order of the reactor, human and environmental health radiation is routinely given to nature. In short, a nuclear power plant poisons humans and nature during its smooth work. ▪ The cleanest and safest energy is nuclear energy, and almost all the world denies its rhetoric. Many countries in the world have abandoned nuclear energy. The countries, such as Germany, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, have either closed down the plants or announced that they will not order a new one in place of those whose life spans have passed. The United States and the European Union spend billions of dollars, euros on waste. In an informal manner, they choose small developed and developing countries, especially India, as nuclear dumps for waste. Turkey is one of these countries. It should also be remembered that we still can't get rid of the Italian barrels of toxic waste that appeared in the Black Sea. Mr. President, precious MPs, we will, of course, support any project that will contribute to the economic and social development of our country and our nation, the state policy that concerns national security, whoever owns it. However, in this process against Akkuyu Nuclear Plant, we observe that the government follows all high-budget and high-budget projects and repeats confusing issues. In this sense, we are especially interested in looking at the agreement between Turkey and Russia on the construction of this plant. In this regard, in the name of Russia, Rosatom, Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for Turkey, these are the parties. The company will be established by the Russian state, which will carry out the project, and is clearly expressed in the second joke in Article 5 of the agreements held by the nuclear power plant, including electricity produced. Companies authorized by the Russian company will have a 100 per cent share directly or indirectly initially. In addition, the Russian share will never fall below 51 per cent, especially in the agreement. 20 per cent of the profits from the project company will start paying for power units to the Turkish side 15 years later and will be raised by Mr. Erdoğan in 2023. The first production of energy will be carried out at the earliest in 2025, despite what was said by the contract. The products needed in the construction of the project will be supplied from Russia, and in terms of agreement, you can clearly see that this plant is foreign origins, such as other national and domestic projects of the government, and is an energy capitalization given entirely from construction to the plant itself and its electricity produced by Russia. Turkey is only a customer here. While it does not give Turkey an advantage over energy and prices and technology transfers, Turkey has a similar agreement with Russia or Iran, which has previously been made with the government's acquisition or payment agreement for this plant. Our country's energy planning indicates that three nuclear plants will be installed in the Sinop project phase, and the third, possibly in Tekirdağ, and unfortunately, none of them are domestic and non-national projects. It looks like there's gonna be Russians in one, Chinese in the other. When we try to reduce external dependence on energy, we're likely to become dependent on national security. In the future, even our exports of tomatoes in the smallest plane crisis, as in the past, are becoming economically distressed, while the infidel of the hand will give us 100 percent of its energy? Is that why you don't make a sound about the persecution of the Chinese in East Turkistan? Radioisotopes are used in hospitals, research labs, universities and industry in our country, and they are radioactive elements, and in terms of volume in some countries more than low-active radioactive elements from reactor fuel waste. Without long-term nuclear technology policy and a human resource and infrastructure development strategy for this, it is clear that external dependency will increase more than ever before. We're both producing technology for solar and wind energy; domestic industry should be produced by an incentive system that will be built on this issue. In the last two years, solar panel imports are $6.1 billion. As the sector grows at this rate, it will be worth 40 billion dollars in five years. We're also importing wind energy equipment from abroad, and we need to open ways to make the equipment used in both sectors cheaper in the country. Such a scheme, such a age, so be damned! There was a horseless man who said, "Let there be." The great Turkishman who said, "Let there be a horseless horse" was the 43rd anniversary of his transfer to the eternal realm yesterday, God rest his soul. (God bless the Turk/Turkish hands.)
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0025par0201	Thank you. Kayseri MP Dursun Atash is the last speaker on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you are, Mr. Paperman. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0026par0206	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budgets of the Turkish Competitiveness Agency and the Hellal Accreditation Agency, which is part of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin with my words, while serving with great sacrifice in the fight against terrorism, I thank you for our martyred security forces, our veterans. I offer my condolences to the family, as Rize Police Commissioner, who was also a martyr yesterday. I wish that the budget of 2019, when our views and proposals were not considered in the package, would bring blessings to our country and to the great Turkish nation. The Competition Association began its operation on 5 November 1997. The Law on the Protection of Competitiveness 4054 is required by the Law. The purpose of the Competitiveness Agency tasked with implementing the law is to ensure and protect competition in the markets. Turkey's free market economy has been audited by the implementation of the Competitiveness Agency. Thus, the testing and continuation of its economic activity in favor of markets has been made a legal obligation. The institution's budget of 2019 increased by about 14 per cent compared to 2018 and was prepared at 96m 190k. Dear MPs, Turkey's Competitiveness Agency is administratively and financially independent. The budget budget for 2019 was presented by the Ministry of Commerce in the budget talks on the Plan and Budget Commission. It is very important for an administrative independent institution to present its own budget to the markets to reassure them. This gives the impression that he's under the control of the Ministry of Commerce. So his independence is questioned. In this regard, it is unthinkable for the institution to manage and balance markets objectively. Among its tasks is to intervene in areas where competition does not work well. So he has to balance the market by providing competitive conditions. It is not easy for any company to have a large share of the market when there is a competitive environment. Dear lawmakers, among the objectives and duties of Turkey's Competitiveness Agency are also to examine the phase of the privatisation of public enterprises and transfer to the private sector, preventing monopoly in areas that the public has abandoned by privatising and privatising. The results of recent privatisations are obvious. While privatisations are thought to be questionable by a large number of public opinion, the institution has failed to give the free market the necessary confidence. Look, there's no need to go back too far. As a result of privatisation of Turkish sugar factories, the cycles have still not been built. There's no explanation for why it couldn't be done. Transferred factories have been abandoned, there is no inspection, our farmers have been victims. As agriculture reaches the point of end in our country, there is no effort to address the victims of our farmers these days, our workers are unemployed, and there is no regulation for the guarantees of our workers working during privatisations. Many have been thrown out these days when the economic crisis is felt too much. There has been no statement from the institution, nor has there been any study of the relevant ministry. Dear lawmakers, the institution has recently seized onion and potato warehouses, one of the major causes of the economic crisis. On August 8, 2018, he prepares a preliminary research report, which examines paintings of onions and potatoes from 2012-2017. The year before, its products were no longer found in warehouses. The potato and onion markets don't have the initiative to affect the markets involved. He makes this decision unanimous and publishes it in November 2018. This long-term report officially declares that there is no such thing as hoarding in the entire sector, revealing the importance of storage. Dear lawmakers say this is a very important place, that even after only three months, there is no current decision on the onion of the Competitive Institution, which is intended for the period before the decision on the study, detection and evaluations were made, and that they are closely monitoring the sector. I wonder if in a short, three-month period, the onion, potato market, the monopoly has fallen into their hands. What changed in the potato market in three months? Did the Competitiveness Agency ignore its own unanimous report against the raiding of the warehouses, or did it ignore its independence in the face of power? One of our institutions today denies what you said yesterday because they couldn't stand the pressure. Our independent institutions today, which have shown the impact of the economic crisis, have to make bold decisions despite all the pressures, make consistent statements that reassure the free market. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's Competitiveness Agency has not been able to carry out the necessary audit of the government's economic activities directly or indirectly, in its recent statements and ways. He hasn't taken steps to create competition in the markets. He didn't get in the way of the monopoly. He allowed the media and the media to be monopoliticized and watched the pool media be created. He couldn't make the necessary intervention in importing and marketing. He couldn't stop the tenders from being given to certain companies. So as an institution, they've had their share of political pressure. The institution has lost its neutrality and independence. Deliberate MPs, the Hellal Accreditation Agency, have recently been established and have been earmarked for $3,876,000 in budgets for 2019. The aim of the institution is to promote decentralisation assessment institutions. It is to ensure that these organisations operate according to national or international standards, and that the documents they staged in such a way are accepted nationally and internationally. The public is a government-owned, administrative and financial autonomy institution based on the Ministry of Commerce. There are many representatives of the ministry. These representatives will be selected according to what Islamic competence is a question mark on their own. Let's see how autonomous they can be. Let's hope they don't become the kind of institution that has lost its autonomy, its independence, that we've just talked about. In the event of the appointment of qualified and unqualified executives to this institution, the activities of this institution can be of no benefit, nor can the large gap be removed. That's why we're gonna keep a close eye on the agency's activities. However, at this point, there is another matter to be discussed. How and who has been audited by the institutions that have been granted the helal certificate so far? How secure are the certificates given? As a matter of fact, how and by what standards did the institutions of the halal accordion of the chicken from Brazil supervise? For example, meat imports should discuss whether carcals from foreign countries are healthy and lawful, there is no guarantee that it is lawful. However, we have an institution established in our country in 1999, which has international recognition in all areas of optimization assessment, and its name is the Turkish Accreditation Agency. In 2013, a glorious organisation was organised where foreign experts from Muslim countries joined the Halic Convention Centre, which turned into a show by the European Union Minister Egemen Bagis, and led by the Turkish Accreditation Agency as chairman of the Hell Accredition Committee. The result is clear: another institution has lost its function in its mental state. Is it because the name of our current institution has been passed on to us? Is it because it's lost its function and replaced by another institution? Again, the short name of the newly formed institution, the concept that is far away from power, is the HAK. You will not be justified in saying fucking as long as your understanding continues in this field, just as you are not fluent in saying "AK. " I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0027par0220	Just like you're not good at saying "okay."
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0028par0221	Thank you. This concludes the speech for the Good PARTY Group. Now begins the speech of the Justice and Development Party Group. The first speaker is Istanbul MP Osman Boyraz. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0029par0228	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group to address the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I hereby salute the highly valued members of our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, watching us on their screens, with my most heartfelt feelings, with longing and conversation. First of all, my dear friend, my friend, my friend, Altug Verdi, who was killed by a vicious attack yesterday, I pray to God for His mercy, and may his place be in heaven. Before I begin my speech, I remember the sultan of our hearts, the Sultan of Jalalalettin, on the 745th anniversary of his migration to the eternal world, with love, respect, and mercy. The budget we are meeting today is the 17th budget drafted by EC PARTY governments, and is historically important because it is the first budget of the Presidential system. First of all, I'd like to thank all of the bureaucrats of our Energy Ministry, especially our Minister of Energy, and members of the Plan and Budget Commission, who have been involved in preparing the Energy Ministry's budget, to all those who have mobilized the sweat, the labor, the sincerity. Budgets are one of the most important tools used to achieve goals such as stability in the economy, efficient allocation of resources, justice in the distribution of revenues and incentives for investments. When we look at budgets made during the EC PARTY, we see that there are budgets for growth, development, competitiveness, human-focused, production-driven, all-introduced budgets. In the modern world, energy has become one of the essential elements and needs of our lives, one of the basic dynamics of growth, development and development. In addition, our country has the highest share of import pens, which is an important entry for our country's economy. The reduction of external dependence in energy is important for Turkey's overall economic balances. One of the basic requirements for sustainable growth of the country's economy in this minival is the supply of uninterrupted, quality, environmentally compatible and competitive energy. In this context, reducing our country's dependence on the outside in terms of primary energy sources, providing supply safety assessments, strengthening the energy infrastructure and prioritizing energy efficiency is only possible with investments to be made. When we look at this in terms of geopolitical importance, we have implemented many projects because of the location of Turkey; the Blue Stream gas pipeline, the TANAP project, the Turkish Stream Gas Line Project. I'm not going to go into any of these details, but time is of the essence. The work already done by the Ministry of Energy, especially by the AK PARTY, will not be enough time or words in my vocabulary to describe the work done in every field. I'm aware of that, too. Our beloved nation also appreciates the services that have always been done to them in every election. Hopefully, in the March 31st elections, our nation will distinguish between those who make words, and those who make business, and those who put stones upon stones, and those who make decisions according to them. Our beloved nation, God willing, will never leave its servant alone in the March 31st elections, as he never did. Of course, there's a lot of work done in energy -- as I've just expressed -- in energy. Prior to the AK PARTY in 2002, it was renewable energy. We all know all kinds of renewable energy. In 2002, about 12,000 megawatts of wind energy, geothermal energy, biomass energy, and so on, we've now raised about 42,000 megawatts. As you can see, this is a constant increase in service. Once again, when we look at the power of the board, about 32,000 megawatts have risen before the AK PARTY, it has now reached about 88,000 megawatts. Again, electricity production increased from 125 billion kilowatts to about 300 billion kilowatts. As you can see, in almost every field, in natural gas, in oil, in the mine, this and so on. Again, in 2002, there was natural gas in about 5 cities, including Ankara, Eskişehir, İstanbul, İzmir, Bursa, Turkey -- working in 78 districts and 3 cities -- and we have reached the point of meeting the demand for natural gas in our district. Again, in mining, when we look at it, from 90 different types of mines around the world, 77 have been detected in our country, and about 60 have been produced. Our export was around 700 million in 2002, while in 2017, our exports went up to $4.3 billion. Again, I just told you, I mentioned the TANAP project. This project is very, very important. About 2,000 meters under the sea, 980 kilometers...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0030par0239	Not for a minute, Mr Boyraz. Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0029par0241	Mr. President, at the end of the day, it doesn't end with counting what I just said. I couldn't get into nuclear energy. And at that point, you all know that while there are over 500 nuclear energy being used in the world, unfortunately, in our country, with the strong leader of the AK PARTI power, today, with the will, we have a place in Sinop, Mersin, and the third. At this point, those who always advise us not to do it, produce 77% of their country's electricity production, 80 percent of its electricity production. There's no need to go too far. The stopping object never generates energy -- the first rule of physics -- it has to keep moving. Here's the AK PARTY authorities in constant motion; no stopping, we say keep moving. May our energy be constant.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0031par0245	Thank you. Now it's time for Mersin MP Zeynep Gül Yilmaz. Mr. Gül Yilmaz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0032par0250	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. On this occasion, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, watching us on their screens. Before I begin, I ask God's mercy to Altuğ Verdi, our chief of police, who was martyred in his office yesterday. Today my country, Mersin, will be sent off to Hakk. God rest his soul. My condolences to our beloved nation and to his family. We all know that there is a close and accurate relationship between countries' energy demands and growth. In addition to what we have done so far in the field of energy and natural resources in our power to move our country and our nation forward, we will continue to develop our strategies in the field of energy and mining policy, energy supply security, domesticization and predictable markets. The main goal, driven by this policy, is to reduce external dependence on energy, supply of continuous and low-cost energy and raw materials, liberalisation in energy markets, energy efficiency and development of domestic technology. In this context, more local, more renewable. The national energy and mining policy strategy that we've established with its password continues to be a very intensive work process to increase the local and renewable energy share in our portfolio, with local coal, and our renewable energy sources are considered to a maximum level of sustainability in accordance with the principle of environmental sustainability. As of the end of 2018, over 13,000 megawatts, including the sun and the wind, have been activated. Despite the fact that we are more than 90 per cent dependent on oil and natural gas, our people have been provided with power supply security without any problems or supply crisis in this area for 16 years, despite the fact that we are over 90 per cent dependent on the outside. In this framework, we continue to work very hard to move the range of resources and routes to the highest possible point at the point of control of import dependency. I'd like to brief you very briefly on the important projects that have been implemented in this context, you know, it would take us hours to tell you all about them. The largest solar power plant in the world, 1,000 megawatts, has begun to build a wind power plant in 5 locations, with a total of 1,000 megawatts. The foundation of the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant in Mersin, my hometown, was also founded on April 3, 2018 by the participation of our President and the President of Russia. On 3 May 2013, Japan and I signed an agreement on the installation of our second nuclear power plant, Sinop Nuclear Power Plant, which has 4,480 megawatts. In the natural gas field, Baku-Tiflis-Erzurum Natural Gas Pipeline and Blue Stream Natural Gas Pipeline were activated. The construction of Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline Project (TANAP), called the Silk Road of energy from Azerbaijan to Turkey, was completed and connected to our national gas transmission network. Landworks continue in 2019 to provide gas for our country. The first floating LNG storage and regasation terminal of Turkey has been activated in İzmir Alikaka. However, it has the largest LNG storage capacity in the world and has been activated at Hatay Fourways, the regasing terminal of our country. The Silivri Natural Gas Storage Facility was launched on 11/7/2007 with the capacity to store 1.9 billion cubic metres. The construction of the Salt Lake Underground Natural Gas Storage Facility, phase 1, was completed, and the first gas filling was carried out in 2017. By the end of 2018, natural gas use will be provided in our 81 counties. Our guru, the first deep sea drilling ship of Turkey, Fatih, began drilling in the Mediterranean. The second drilling ship's supply process is under way and is expected to be part of our portfolio in February 2019. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In addition, two seismic search ships, including one of the local productions, have been activated and continue searching. As part of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan, 55 different projects from 2017-2023 will save cumulative 23.9 million tonnes of equivalent oil energy. In the event of the implementation of all actions under the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan, the financial value of saving by 2033 is estimated at $30.2 billion. When I put an end to my words, I say it's not good to say good, they talk, they make AK PARTY. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0033par0266	Thank you. Friends, please, our deadlines are set, five minutes, and I'd appreciate it if we could observe that; there are 14 speakers, which is 15 minutes total plus 1. It's Van MP Abdulahat Arvas. Here you are, Mr. Arvas.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0034par0271	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the budget of the Energy Market Editing Agency, which is part of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the Presidential Court and its MPs. Dear lawmakers, as part of the competition and restructuring process of the state-run electricity and gas market, which has been ruled by public monopoly for many years, the Energy Market Editing Agency was established as an independent authority in 2001. From the day it was founded, it works to liberalise energy markets, open competition, and divide the benefits of competition with fairness to all parties. The independence of the institution is very valuable to the objective management of energy markets. Precious lawmakers are the main institution and organiser of energy markets in Turkey, the Organ Energy Market Editing Institution. Electricity is responsible for organising and auditing all activities in natural gas, oil and LPG markets. Turkey operates in the electricity market in September 2018, with 2,319 players in the gas market, 320 in the gas market, 13.524 in the oil market and 10,966 licensed players in the LPG market. The EPDK aims to supply its energy resources to consumers with low cost, continuous and respect for the environment, without compromising quality. As the EPDK sets rules on the functioning of energy markets, it constantly reviews the results and developments in the world from market monitoring activities. As a result of EPDK (EPDK)'s activities towards the electricity market, at the end of 2001, we had about 88,000 megawatts of board power at the end of August 2018. Important legislation for the electricity market aims to boost efficiency. For this purpose, the laws on building solar panels on the roofs of buildings have been implemented. Again, in favour of consumers, minimum standards have been set for services related to electricity sales. When we look at natural gas market activities, the natural gas used by only six counties in 2002 uses today, alhamdullah, 78 counties and 430 counties. With hard work, hopefully by the end of this year, all 81 of our districts and 500 of our districts will start using natural gas. The largest gas storage facility in Salt Lake has been completed in our country, the only safe transit of natural gas to Europe, as Turkey aims to become a gas trade centre. With the Salt Lake Gas Storage Facility, we store natural gas in salt structures 1,400 metres below the ground. On the other hand, under EPDK regulations, on September 1, 2018, the Organised Toptan Natural Gas Sales Market was launched within EPIAS. Thus, our country became the first country in its region to establish the gas market. Another crucial step has been taken towards our country's goal of becoming a gas trade centre. Dear lawmakers, the fuel market in Turkey is growing and growing every year. Over the last ten years, fuel consumption has increased by 50 per cent to 28.7 million tonnes. Europe's finest fuel is consumed in our country. The Akaryat quality monitoring system (AKIS) has been established. As of today, there are six refinery licenses in the Akaryat market. Four belong to TUPRASH, one to the Star refinery that began operating last month, and the other to ERSA Oil Industry, which is in preparation. The EPDK has also taken several steps to make its environmentally-friendly LPG (also known as the EPDK) rapidly common in our country. As a result, today Turkey is the world's 16th largest LPG market. Energy has a very important priority in human life, a life without energy is almost impossible in today's conditions. As in all countries, developing technology and increasing energy deficits require further consideration of new energy sources and a rapid production of alternatives in our country. Turkey has significant potential in the world, as well as its area and population.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0035par0280	Complete, please, Mr. Arvas.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0034par0281	Hence, energy production should be given to domestic, new and renewable sources of energy. Energy planning aims to enable citizens to access cheap, continuous and reliable energy, based on the protection of national interests and increasing social benefits. Congressmans, dear friends, we have a high-powered President and Government. I now wish the central management budget of 2019, designed with positive energy, would bring peace, no, and blessings for our country and our nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0036par0285	Now it's time for Istanbul MP Iffet Polat. Here you go, Mr. Polat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0037par0289	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish our 2019 budget to be good for our country and our nation. The 2019 budget, which we have held today, is the clearest indication that Turkey is on the right track and growing, despite all the conflicts in our region that have deepened its instability against all external and artificial fluctuations and economic recession and trade wars in the world. To this day, we have taken steps to consider, read, and absorb the conditions of the next century. We have also tried to diversify Turkey's resources and resources in energy and in other areas. With seismic probes and drilling ships, we carried out search and search operations in the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, which is thought to be very rich in oil and natural gas. Despite all international obstacles, we continue to engage in these activities. From soil analysis to research of what kind of energy sources we can access in the region, we're struggling in the field of energy. Nuclear power plants are taken at this very point in Turkey's more efficient use of resources. I'd like to remind you that energy is the most important pen in Turkey's current deficit. Nuclear energy today is one of the main sources used as a safe, clean, economic energy source to meet the world's energy needs. In 31 countries around the world today, 454 nuclear plants operate, and 54 plants are being built in 17 countries. Again, it is important and meaningful that there are 59 nuclear power plants in South Africa, Russia, Iran, Canada and Mexico, where our energy-dependent country has no nuclear power plants. Of the 31 countries with nuclear power plants, 10 have fewer populations than the population of Istanbul. When we look at the world's examples, we see that nuclear power plants have an obligation at the point of energy efficiency and are actually safe in contrast to public perception. There are 58 nuclear plants in France, where some 89 million tourists visit each year. Disneyland is only 40 miles from Nogent nuclear power plant. It also has no emissions in nuclear plants, so it does not damage agricultural areas and vegetation. For example, in the area of the Cruas-Meysse and Tricastin nuclear plant in France, for example, nearly half of France's grape production occurs. The effect of plants on humans is minimal. For example, a person who has had a CT scan is exposed to 1,100 times more radiation than a person who lives near the nuclear plant 24/7. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the nuclear power plant is not only a matter of electricity, it is also a matter of increasing technology, of Know-how, of national industry and employment. With nuclear power plant projects, Turkish companies will have the opportunity to be suppliers to other nuclear plant projects around the world after they have had experience and experience in these projects. It will also be an important step in developing the experience of nuclear power plants and the equipment used in all thermal plants. At the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant, 209 of our students are already studying at universities in Russia to provide for engineers who will work in different fields from operators to managers. In addition, 35 of our students graduated from the Akkuyu Nuclear Project in 2018. With nuclear energy projects implemented in accordance with our national energy policy, our country will become a country with nuclear technology that operates nuclear power plants, produces nuclear power and nuclear fuel itself. Precious lawmakers have made it mandatory for projects aimed at the implementation of nuclear power plants, the licensing of nuclear plants, the immediate regulation of the infrastructure needed to continue its work on nuclear technology under its supervision, the establishment of a modern nuclear regulatory regime, the supervision of an independent regulatory institution. The Nuclear Editing Agency, where we're discussing its budget today, is a structure designed to build nuclear power plants in our country, license nuclear facilities, control nuclear technology. The International Atomic Energy Agency, which we are a member of, has been established in an independent, regulatory structure, as part of the Nuclear Security and Paris Conventions. This institution, which has been extended to a one-year calendar, will carry out its work by linking the presidency with the Ministry of Energy.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0038par0299	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0037par0300	It is clear that with its budget of around 95 million TL, the Nuclear Control Agency will sign on to some very important work. All this successful work in nuclear energy and our 2019 budget wish our country, our nation, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0038par0302	Now, the Silver House MP Hadji Osman Akgül... Here you go, Mr. Akgül. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0039par0306	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the National Bor Research Institute for our Ministry of Energy. I hereby salute our High Council. First of all, I wish our Rize Police Commissioner's family, our police department and the heads of the Turkish nation, who died in an attack yesterday, to have immediate healing for our wounded. The National Institute of Bor Research was founded in 2003 to carry out activities aimed at the development and spread of boron products in our country and the world. Russia, which has 8 per cent of the world's reserves in 1958, is a late move to establish the National Bor Research Institute in our country with 73 per cent reserve while Japan, with no reserves in 1970. The fact that more than 73 per cent of this reserve is in our country reveals more clearly the importance of the activities of the National Bor Research Institute. Up until today, 215 projects have been completed within the institute and 46 projects continue. 24 patent documents have been issued in connection with the results of these completed projects, continuing patenting for 12 inventions. Private sector companies have been granted licenses for 6 testing products. Because of the rapid extinction of raw materials in the world and the use of boron mines in many branches of the industry, the pipe is increasingly important. Turkey, Russia, South America and the United States, have the highest debt reserve at a rate of 73%. The sectoral distribution of the consumption of boron products around the world is 47% of glass production, 16% agriculture, 15 per cent ceramic, 2 per cent cleaning and 20 per cent other sectors. In our country, the distribution of the consumption of boron products on a sectoral basis is 36% of glass production, 31 per cent ceramic, 9 per cent cleaning, 7 per cent agriculture and 18 per cent other sectors. The pipe has many known effects such as persevering, heat insulation, flame retardant, smoke suppressant, antimicrobial agent, superconductor, cancer preventer, solid lubricant, radiation and defence armor, energy carrier and storageer, plant feeder and cleaner. Studies for the use of new products and applications of the pipe, which is used in more than 2,150. Studies supported and conducted by the Bor Institute have produced dramatic results. The production of new generations of ballistic armor plates, unburnable fibres and tents, is now produced by the production of building materials with the help of a boron mine. Again, domestic fuel production has been made to increase the range of electric vehicles and the flight time of drones. Of course, commercialization is also under way. In light of our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources' national energy and national mining policy, investments in the development of the boron sector began with the awareness of the importance of high value of high products, in areas such as defence, electricity, electronics, iron steel, to bring boron carbide, boron nitride and ferrobor production facilities into our country. In the Bor sector, investment by the Eti Mining Corporations, which continued to invest, was close to $1 billion from 2002 to 18 years ago. Mr. President, due to the work of our Bor Research Institute and Eti Mine, our share of the world's boron market was 30 per cent in 2002, while today our country is covering more than 57 per cent of the world's boron market. In the coming period, the Meat Mining Company plans to continue its work without compromise from its quality, sustainability and innovation in line with its vision of the market as much as the reserve.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0040par0317	Mr. Akgül, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0039par0318	About 15 per cent of the world's boron consumption takes place in the agricultural sector. Tests have been conducted on 14 different agricultural products as part of the Agriculture-Bor Research and Application Programme, providing a 5 per cent to 30 per cent efficiency increase in products. In addition to these studies, projects are being developed to create environments for the development of the boron-grown scientist's power, where pilot facilities for the products of R&D activities are being established. Our Boron Institute continues to co-operate with countries such as China, Japan, Germany and Russia. I wish our Bor Research Institute success in its work, which is important to our country. With these thoughts, I wish our budget of 2019 to be better, and I salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0041par0322	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Burdur MP Yasin Uður... Here you go, Mr. Uður. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0042par0326	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency for 2019. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation with respect and conversation. Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy to our chief of police, who died in his office yesterday; we have wounded, and I ask for healing for them; and I ask patience for the grieving family, and for our nation. Dear lawmakers have also been reformed in the arrangements in the nuclear field as part of the construction of the new state system in our country, No. 4. New functions, such as innovation, design, technology building, production, testing, clustering and settling activities, have been defined by the presidential decree 2690, and have been changed to create new opportunities for our country in the field of nuclear energy, ionizing radiation and accelerant technologies, which are not included in the presidential decree 2690. In this scope, Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency has the duty to co-ordinate, organize, organize, co-ordinate scientific, technical and administrative studies for the peaceful use of nuclear energy, ionizing radiation and accelerant technologies for the good of the country. Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation serves our country with its most state-of-the-art labs, equipped with technology and equipment, located in Istanbul and Ankara settlements. In addition, radiation in place has the necessary measurements to measure radioactive activity, and is equipped to determine the levels of human and environmental radiation doses in nuclear radiological hazards. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency labs are being followed by technological advances in the world, where radiation measurements and monitoring devices are being developed and produced in various dimensions and different properties, and are presented in our country to provide for the needs of many public and private sector institutions in the field of industrial, medicine, education, civil defence and military. The radiation monitoring systems produced by the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency have been installed at the customs black border gates, setting up airports, seaports and train crossing locations. In addition, radiation monitoring systems have been established throughout our country, along with scraping centres and some public institutions and institutions. These systems are simultaneously running, allowing passengers or objects to be monitored at the entrance of customs doors and to be intervened in the necessary situations. Our country's only authority on radioactive waste disposal is the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency. Our country's only radioactive waste processing facility is still operating in Istanbul. In the future, studies have been launched to implement new facilities where new technologies will be used for the disposal of radioactive waste from radiation sources, medicine, industry, research and so on, as well as for waste from work in the field of nuclear energy. Dear lawmakers, our country's aims to develop nuclear technology and generate energy will only be achieved by our national industry and qualified manpower within a stable nuclear programme. Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency, with its most advanced research-investigation infrastructure and accumulated human resources, is also leading and leading to the maximum precision and effort needed to acquire technology and develop its activities in our country, as well as to other institutions and institutions. The Turkish Atomic Energy Agency's investment programme for 2019 consists of projects that cover research on research and development projects on nuclear technology, research on food, agriculture, animalism, environmental, industry and medicine, and implementing projects and activities related to accelerant technology, radiation measurement and analysis, and many projects that cover the needs of our country. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute your grand delegation, the financial budget of the Turkish Atomic Energy Foundation, which plays a crucial role in the use of nuclear technology and techniques in line with our country's interests, and the first budget of our presidential government system in 2019.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0043par0337	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, now, Deputy Muhammad Mufit Aydın... Your time is five minutes. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0044par0342	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of Mining Research and Research Directorate, wishing that the budget of 2019 would be a blessing, and I salute the grand delegation. My condolences to God's mercy, to his grieving family, to our nation, to the safety community, to the Rize Police Commissioner, who died yesterday after an armed attack. And I wish our wounded a speedy recovery. Two days ago, we left behind another Day of Human Rights on December 10th, where the messages of friendship and brotherhood were sent. According to the United Nations report, the anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations at a time when one child is killed every ten minutes in Yemen. I'm asking: Is this Universal Declaration of Human Rights kept out of Muslim geography, for God's sake? Let them not be seen as human rights defenders who do not carry it on the agenda of the world, while they are subjected to hundreds of thousands of civilian massacres in Gaza, Gaza, Arakan, Myanmar, Syria, Libya, East Turkistan. Dear friends, I'd like to convey to you some of the heart-breaking data that international aid organizations have published about the Yemen civil war: for example, the British-based NGO, the National Society for Protecting the Children, the number of children who have died in this country due to poor nutrition in the war of three years. The United Nations stated that about 14 million Yemenis are in danger of starvation. In this Muslim country, also suffering from drug shortages, 1.2 million underdogs were caught in cholera outbreaks. How long will the world remain silent in this war of the greatest food crisis of the century? When will the United Nations Security Council intervene in this shameful painting for humanity? As Turkey, we are with our brothers in Yemen, Gaza, Aleppo, Myanmar, Arakan, and East Turkistan. (APPLAUSE) We will not fail to do the necessary humanitarian aid, we will continue to shout the persecution of the oppressors on every platform, and wherever it lives in the world, we are there for humanity, no matter what race, no matter what religion, no matter what sect, and we will continue to be there. Dear friends, a world where there is no end of words that don't grieve for the bodies of people who land as much as they do for the fish that land. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to brief you on the MTA studies. Our foundation dates back to 1935, with its long history of eighty-three years, with its name carved into the mountain of our country, with its name on its permanent development story. The MTA, the starting point in the exploration of all mines, is the most comprehensive research organisation in our country. The MTA, the first and only scientific research institution in our country, has been able to direct the sector through its search and research activities, keeping close track of its short, medium and long-term goals, providing technical infrastructure needed by the industry into the institution, providing technical support and counselling activities. These works are being carried out from a stable, domestic and national point of view, and they are becoming increasingly clear and approachable. These viewpoints and decisive practices also increase the reputation of the institution within the world's precedents. Since 2002, the transformation of some pencils has changed in the following way: the annual amount of drilling is 30,000 in 2002; the amount of drilling is 1,600,000 in 2018. The number of licenses is 32 in 2002; 790 in 2018. Lab analysis capacity: sample 20,300, 2002; 2018, 500,000. Dear friends, this data is very important. With increased search and research activities and work capacity, gold, copper, lead...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0045par0350	Let's complete it, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0044par0351	...Chinko, iron, chromium, sodium sulfate, bentonite, et cetera, hundreds of billions of new fields have been discovered, as a result of geothermal work, and the geothermal electricity production capacity in the country has been increased from 1.304 megawatts to 1.304 megawatts. In addition, part of the work that MTA (MTA) has put forth in recent years is listed as: With our companies established in Sudan and Uzbekistan, MTA was the first to own a company abroad, while it was also registered abroad for the first time with mining licenses from Sudan. For the first time in Turkey, Turkey has completed its first edition of 18 paftas for 57 elements, from samples collected every 5km across the country. Two flights will begin geophysical studies from the air, two teams from land to about two hundred and fifty years from land will be completed in as short as three years from air. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all the best in the budget.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0046par0358	Now, it's time for the forty-year-old MP, Selahattin Minsolmaz. Here you go, Mr. Minsolmaz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0047par0362	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the rare Earth Elements Research Institute in 2019. I salute your grand delegation, our two-time Veteran Assembly, and our precious nation watching over us on their screens. The Rare Earth Elements Research Institute is one of the key institutions in our country in 2018, in order for some of the most valuable elements to join the country's economy, to do high-tech research on these elements, which have strategic significance. These elements, known as rare soil elements, are concentrated in the Malatya and Eskişehir region of our country, but the establishment of such an institution in our country is strategic in terms of high technology and defence industry, especially because of corrosion, high friction and resistance to heat. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I want to express here how important it is to search our mines, to find them, to run them, to develop them. The institutions that have worked for this purpose in our country have now been transferring the knowledge they've been building into new fields, and in particular in technology, in high technology, in defence industries, they're trying to create mines together in the country's economy. It is clear that we must all defend a sustainable and environmentally sensitive development in agriculture, in economics, in trade, in education, in health and in all areas, not just underground resources, but all the potential we have. Members of parliament, the world sees Turkey moving forward with democracy and economy in the most turbulent region in the world, claiming to be truly a global force. In order to ensure our energy diversity and energy security, our Energy Ministry is doing its best to use all energy, especially environmentally respected renewable energy sources, as well as geothermal sources, renewable energy, nuclear energy, and biomass from the use of hydroelectric sources. Search and drilling are also being done by Turkey's oil and gas reserves, TPIC (Turkish Petroleum International Company), which is its internationally operating arm, to use our energy resources effectively in the Eastern Mediterranean Region, and Turkey's oil and gas reserves are being tried to join the economy. Dear lawmakers, in this period, despite the economic attacks on our country, we have actually seen how strong our economy's resistance and immune system is with these investments, and in 2017, by becoming the 1st in OECD countries, we have seen our economy's resistance by 7.4 per cent growth. In various times, industry growth was 8.8% in 2017, when the economy was said to be far from industry and there was no industrial development. So development in a country without industry is of course out of the question, but all products used in this construction sector are also produced by industrial institutions in Turkey, as a response to criticisms about growth and growth in Turkey. So there is no way for any activity to join the economy in the industry, without being produced in the factory. So Turkey was able to build its third airport, high-speed trains, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Osman Gazi Bridge, Eurasia Tunnel...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0048par0368	I'll tell you all about it on Saturday, tell you how they did it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0049par0369	Mr. Akar, please, I didn't promise you anything.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0048par0370	I'll tell you all about it on Saturday.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0050par0371	I hope so. ...he was able to give all his pensioners about 25 billion lira bonuses and recruit over 900,000 subcontractors. So it is clear that our budget for 2019 will be a savings budget rather than an infrastructure investment that has been made in our country and has reached its level of efficiency. While there is a savings budget, education, health or exports will not be avoided and the current deficit will be reduced. On basic issues, there has been a significant budget of 161 billion to education, 157 billion to health, 65 billion to investments, and, most importantly, 62 billion to social benefits. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Considering our export was $36 billion in 2002, November 2018, 168...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0051par0376	Mr. Minsolmaz, do you want time?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0050par0377	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0052par0378	Haydar ate a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0051par0379	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0050par0380	Our export was $36 billion in 2002, and as of today, it set a record in November, reaching the level of $168 billion. Our tourism revenues have become 26.5 billion, and depending on that, the number of tourists coming to our country has reached 38 million tourists. While valuable and important energy projects, such as Turkish Stream, continue in our country, our country's most important source, of course, is the undisputed source of human beings. The spirit of the new era requires working together, shoulder to shoulder, and solidarity. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have shown July 15th that there is a rare nation living above the rare land resources in our country. I give our regards to this rare nation of ours, which is not of any use to any of the states, and I wish our budget of 2019 to be good.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0053par0385	Now it's time for Zonguldak MP Polat Turkmen. Here you go, Mr. Turkmen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0054par0389	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Department of Energy and Natural Resources General Directorate of Mines and Petroleum Affairs. I salute the High Council. As known as July 9, 2018, and the Presidential Assembly of 703, published in Article 30473, combined with the General Directorate of Mines and Petroleum Affairs General Directorate and the General Directorate of Mines and Petroleum Affairs, the agency, task, authority and responsibilities are organised as the General Directorate of Mines and Petroleum Affairs. The government and savings of mines within the borders of the Republic of Turkey will belong to the state and will be carried out by the General Directorate of Mines and Petroleum Affairs, under Mining Law 3213, which regulates mining activities in our country. As the roof organisation of our country's resources, we can rank the mains of the Department of Mines and Oil as the directorate of Oil, to grant search warrants for resources, search, business licenses, business use permits for the evaluation of these resources, to give them the rights to establishment, to give them the rights to operate, to monitor activities in the spaces of permits and licenses, to oversee operations, to ensure that resources and resources are reported in international standards, of course, to determine the nature of the nature's best use of the resources, production, storage, storage, stocking and marketing policies. Of the 90 types of mines that are traded around the world, 77 are found in Turkey. Turkey's total source of coal is about 20 billion tonnes, with 1.5 billion tons of stone coal and metallurgical coal in Zonguldak. The remaining 17 billion tons are lignite coal, and 88 per cent of it is used in electricity production in thermal plants, while 12 per cent are used in housing and industry. In addition, we can list important mines as 320 tons of gold, 4 million tons of metal copper, 1.5 billion tons of iron, 41 million tons of chromium, 2 billion tons of sodium sulfate, 1.9,000 tons of uranium. From the beginning to today, 154 million tonnes of oil and 16 billion cubic metres of natural gas were produced in Turkey. This amount of oil contributes to the country's economy at today's prices, which is 72 billion dollars. We also have drills in all parts of Turkey, in order to develop the basin and generation mining and find new mineral deposits. In order to secure our mineral and energy resources in the long term, to contribute to economic growth, the work of our MTA units in the domestic Black Sea, the Zonguldak basin, our work in the West Black Sea, as well as abroad in the Sudan, Uzbekistan. Despite these data, the industry's non-profit share of the mining industry is estimated to be about 1 per cent of the domestic product, and its potential has yet to be revealed. In the middle and long term, our goal is to gradually increase the 1% share to 5 percent. The goal of our 16 years of power is, as in all production sectors, to make sure that the resource sector is developed in every way. A new model for mining has been launched in the National Energy and Mining Policy established by our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2017. In this model, a structure based on RD and technology has been brought forward in the sector. Up until now, the mines that were mined in Turkey were being sent abroad for processing, and these products were being processed were returning to our country at high prices. With this system, the mines that have been mined in our country will flourish again in our country, thus preventing it from being imported as raw materials or intermatter. This model, which will contribute to the growth of the employment and sector's illegal domestic product, will play an important role in improving Turkey's current deficit with the added value.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0055par0397	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0054par0398	As a result, the establishment of the General Directorate of Mines and Petroleum Affairs will increase production within the framework of multinational energy and mining policy by developing a number of new incentive mechanisms of oil, natural gas, international standards, and a maximum contribution to our economy by expanding its share in the domestic product. With these feelings, I respectfully welcome the Grand Assembly to bring blessings to our headquarters, to our Ministry and to our country.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0055par0401	Malatya MP Bkent Tüfenkci is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Tüfenkci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0056par0405	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of our group on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce's budget for the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks. As you know, the Ministry of Customs and Trade and our Ministry of Economics combine to form our Ministry of Commerce. The merger of domestic and foreign trade and customs under a single roof within the Ministry of Trade has also accelerated our ministry's work as it has expanded to a stronger and more comprehensive structure. In the past six months, especially in the face of speculative actions on financial vehicles, our ministry has played an important role in balancing domestic trade and creating new markets in foreign trade. The right moves by our ministry to boost Turkey's share in global trade are admirable. In November, we reached the highest export value in our republic's history, approaching 170 billion dollars, the export target at the end of the year. I believe we will close 2018. In 2019, hopefully, we will continue by adding more and more records to these records. Our foreign trade deficit is down 90.5%. We also see the positive effects of this improvement in our foreign trade with improvements in our current deficit. Trade with Turkish lira, initiated by our President's call to reduce the activity of dollars in foreign trade and minimize the negatives caused by the wolf, has begun to yield its fruit. In November, with our national money, we exported to 174 countries and imported to 110 countries. Dear friends, these are, in fact, the best answers to those who try to draw a pessimistic picture of our economy. Our exporter is supported by foreign fairs, projects and branding. Turkey aims to provide our Eximbank exporters with a 10 per cent increase in 2019, offering $48.4 billion in cash credit and credit insurance support. Trade centres established abroad provide support for our companies for purchase, rental, promotion and employment. Our border gates are being renovated to respond to increasing foreign trade volumes, needs and demands, and our customs are fully automated. Modernisation of our customs continues successfully along with our Minister. Our doors are being renovated and new doors are being activated. Customs is thus becoming faster, transparent, and its transport to the electronic environment prevents delays. The point where we arrive in customs is also modelled by many countries, and we have become a educational country in this regard. In countries such as South Korea, Russia, Finland, customs are provided with training on modernisation, customs in place and digitalisation of customs. The brand of trust that we consider important for e-trade is being activated. Drugs, cigarettes, and fuel are being fought decisively against any trafficking and are being fought against state-of-the-art. At the beginning of 2018, at our 20 black border crossing, the license plate recognition systems were activated, and in this sense, 45,000 tons of drugs were seized by the end of November. With cigarettes, 4.5 million packs of cigarettes were seized as part of the fight against trafficking, about 11,500 tonnes of illegal fuel were detected in ten months of the year. Our ministry's sensitivity to unfair price increases is also admirable for the protection of consumers and producers. In particular, the number of businesses in the licensed storage system, which is very important for agricultural trade in our country, has reached 144. The total licensed storage capacity has reached 3,88,17 tonnes. We also performed dry apricot - licensed storage in Malatya, the capital of his apricot. With a licensed storage system, our manufacturers get a healthy, safe and insured storage facility where they can store their crops.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0057par0415	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0058par0417	There's no licensed storage in Niğde.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0059par0418	We've started it, and how it's going.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0058par0420	No Niğde.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0059par0421	Let's hope it starts there. Mr. Omar, our ministry of the tradesmen's bail co-ops is also tremendously supportive. You say, "Why is he borrowing?" But really, it's better to go to the cooperative than to go to banks.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0058par0423	Niğde is forgotten.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0060par0424	Ours is swollen, bloated, they don't give it to any of them, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0059par0425	They'll give it to you. I especially hope that our budget of 2019 is good for our ministry and for our country.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0061par0428	Now it's time for Gaziantep MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0062par0432	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group for the Ministry of Commerce budgetary budget, which is part of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute you all. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are of great importance to Turkey, who adopts a model of production and export-oriented growth, to increase our share in global exports, to reduce our dependence on imports, to solidify our position in the global value chain with high value products, and to introduce Turkey's brand to the world. We aim to continue our mid-term growth performance. Continuous increase of exports is one of our main goals. We aim to ensure that external demand contributes to growth permanently positive. Exporting goods and services from the same period of last year increased 13.6%, one of them is an important focus of export-oriented growth at the same time. The Turkish economy is in the process of balancing. Despite the attack and perceptions of our national economy, 1.6 per cent growth has been achieved in three quarters. Of course, when we look at the most prestigious countries in the world, we see the point where all of these are producing countries. If you produce it, you respond to it, and if you produce it, you sell it, and if you produce it, you become rich. For him, our main goal is to always increase production, increase employment, increase growth, instead of speculative money movements.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0063par0435	None of it's happening.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0062par0436	Of course, even though we were the 17th largest country in the world, Turkey was always the first to help the oppressed nations, the oppressed, those who were left behind in the instability between countries. And here's our goal: shoot capitalism. Go ahead. Let them do it, let them pass. With national culture, spiritual culture, we're the goal of moving away from the interest culture that I'm talking about, to invest, to share the profits from there with everyone, to spread the revenue distribution all over the floor. Dear friends, since habits change, we weigh in on RD and innovative activities. Our businessmen, our industrialists, are doing great inland and abroad, trying to get new investments, new markets. With our medium-sized industrial areas projects, we also support models that open the way for exports to young and women, artists and crafts who work for both our SMEs and our SMEs. Like the defense industry again, high-techs have become indispensable. It was enough to disrupt the game of our country's foreign forces and destroy the treacherous alliances within us. They entered their dens, entered their nests, and at the same time, when our country ruled out all the dangers, it became a national force. And as long as you're in power, you don't have to back down. Turkey is moving fast and strong on this road. Of course, we'll continue to move forward in the economy, but it's not a coincidence that we're among the five countries in the world in the national war industry, which is also the success of our government and our bureaucracy and our employees, for short, 80 million. With local technology, we're also increasing the authorization of our customs. Of course, I'm running out of time, and my city, Gaziantep, took its place between $7 billion in exports and the first cities in Turkey, and last month broke the biggest record in its history. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0064par0442	Thank you very much, Mr. Erdogan. Now it's time for Edirne MP Fatma Aksal. Here you are, Mr. Aksal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0065par0447	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget offer of 2019. I salute your high council and my beloved nation. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to our chief of police who died in his armed assault, his condolences to his grieving family, and an urgent cure to our wounded police. I also wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the flood of Edirne in the past few weeks, and to our families who were hurt in the floods. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been formed to observe the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Competition 4054 and to carry out the duties of the Law on the Protection of Competitiveness and Development of Competitiveness in a free, healthy competition environment. Under Law 4054, the initiatives are prohibited from competing in specific goods or service markets, by constraining agreements, obstructionist agreements, and action decisions on this, abuse of the judge's situation, and mergers and takeovers that significantly restrict competition. Competitiveness and competitiveness are not only essential to providing socioeconomic improvements, but also to survival or sustainability. The Competitiveness Agency, whose basic task and responsibility is to ensure, protect, and develop the competitive environment, is obliged to carry out policy development, competitive organisation and audit activities in order to achieve this goal. He's doing research and research on initiatives in all sectors based on applications that have been sent to him for the formation of more competitive markets, or by acting on its own. He has completed a total of 296 investigations of competitive violations over the past 21 years from the time he was founded and has allowed 3,625 mergers and takeovers, including privatisations. On 1 January 2018-30 November 2018, a total of 353 final decisions were made. Fifty-two percent of these decisions appear to belong to merger, takeover and privatisation, 24 per cent to competitive violations, and 12 per cent to humane detection and exemption applications. The presence of the Competitive Association also contributes indirectly to consumer benefit. As a result of institutional activities in 2014-2016, the estimated benefit for consumers was estimated at $3.3 billion per year and 9.9 billion in total. In the globalized world, competitive violations are also globalizing. Due to recent growing protection policies in international trade, 893m of our exports in 2017 was subject to a trade policy measure, while in the first nine months of 2018 the amount rose to $5.6 billion. We protect our country's interests on all international platforms until the end. In 2019, we will continue to effectively oppose all trade policies that have no international legal basis for our country and our firms, and our rights stemming from international agreements. We make budgets for our country, for the future of our children, for the disabled, for the orphans, for the orphans, for the orphans. In this path of humility, sincerity and zeal, we are making sure that our president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is headed by 2023, 2053, 2071. The Competitive Association budget for 2019...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0066par0454	Mr. Aksal, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0065par0455	...for 96 million and 190 thousand liras. I wish the first budget of the presidential government system to be good. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0066par0458	Thank you, Mr. Aksal. Now, it's time for Heromarash MP Imran Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0067par0462	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the worthy lawmakers, the Hellal Accreditation Agency, the Documentation Agency. I salute you all. In addition to covering only products allowed to eat and drink in the religious sense, the concept that we often use in everyday life should be discussed with the concept of αtayyip (a) in terms of clean, healthy, and hygiene. The concept of helal (Helal) should not be considered separate from the qualities of health, hygiene and quality at every stage, from the production of products to the consumer, as well as responding to religious sensitivities as a quality brand. Because of these features, goods and services with halal documents have become preferable worldwide today. Nearly one third of the world's population is about 1.8 billion Muslims. The demand and interest in the documented helal product of this young and increasingly wealthy population is increasing. This concept is primarily associated with only food products, as well as with food today, in a broad sector, such as finance, textiles, pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, logistics and tourism. Today, helal food products are worth $1.3 trillion. The use of Muslims for products and services such as food, textiles, pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, and tourism and travel is $2.1 trillion. On the other hand, with the addition of the financial sector to products and services, it is 4.55 trillion dollars in size. Today, food production, such as production processes, is also used in intensive technology far beyond traditional methods. It's another fact that everyone knows that additives are used heavily. The process of products from food to logistics to consumers has made this complex situation more important to Muslim consumers. A dynamic consumer group, which received more and more shares from the world's economy, has dominated the market by a large number of public products and service documentation agencies worldwide to meet the demands of Muslims. In Croatia, some examples have been created as a government guide for helal tourism. Spain's Autonomous Administration of Catalonia has begun its access and expansion activities to become active in the market market market for goods and services. There are around 900 halal documented producers in South Korea, which are less than a thousandth of its population, Muslims. Another reason that the Hellal Accreditation Foundation is necessary and even necessary is that almost three-quarters of the legal documentation sector in the Islamic world are controlled by non-Muslim organisations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at this point, we have a great deal of work to do. Unfortunately, it faces commercial and technical barriers as a sign of consumer confidence, as it cannot be met in a common structure and language during the world-wide standardisation and documentation process, as well as the need to document it. For these reasons, it is imperative that a universal legal documentation system be created that will respond to the needs of all the shareholders in order to eliminate both time and financial loss. This is the beginning of the establishment of the Helal Accreditation Foundation, which has been established within the Islamic Institute for Standards and Metrology (SMIIC), which operates within the Islamic Co-operation Agency for the purpose of eliminating this existing piece structure and creating a globally acceptable and prestigious structure. Precious lawmakers will also contribute to the activities of the HAK (KK) and the need for Turkish export products and documentation companies from our country's growing global helal product market. At this point, the HAK will strengthen our country's central position in the field of legal documentation and Akreditation and will contribute to its international say-all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0068par0470	Mr. Sword, let's complete.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0067par0471	This institution, which has a global vision, is the only institution in our country that has the authority to offer a legal accordion service. In addition to providing the legal actuation service to the country and abroad of the decent fitness assessment agencies, the HAK will play an active role in providing reliable helal documentation, such as representing Turkey on legal issues, performing all kinds of scientific and technical examinations, teaching, research, broadcasting, and making it available. In addition to its legal duties and powers, the HAK will be prominent and guiding by its global vision, its vanguard and standards. In this framework, I wish that the Hellal Accreditation Foundation, which will document clean, healthy, good hygiene, quality, reliable products for us, and the budget of 2019, for our country, our nation, the Islamic world, and humanity, will be blessed, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0068par0474	The last word on behalf of the AK PARTY Group belongs to Yalova MP Meliha Akyol. Here you are, Mr. Akyol. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0069par0478	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak on behalf of our group on the budget of the Hellal Accreditation Agency in this round of the Central Management Budget Act of 2019. I salute the Veteran Assembly and your grand delegation. The demand and interest of nearly 1.8 billion Muslim populations in the world for halal products and documentation is increasing. The concept of Hell is primarily associated with only food products, as well as today's foods, which refer to a broad sector, such as finance, textiles, pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, logistics and tourism. The Muslim food products spending is at $1.17 trillion and the food products market with a legal certificate is at $415 billion. The cost of Muslims for products and services such as food, textiles, pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, and tourism and travel is $1.9 trillion. On the other hand, with the addition of the financial sector to the helal product services, the helal economy is 3.9 trillion dollars on a global basis. The fact that the concept of helal (Helal) will also include the features of health, hygiene and quality at every stage from the production of products to the consumer is an indication that awareness in this area will continue to increase. Increased helal product trade at global levels leads to the detection of obstacles created by different standards and documentation systems on international trade. Our country's most fundamental initiative in this area will be under the roof of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, which is located in Istanbul, and will become the centre of the legal acretion market, based on the criteria set in the co-ordinating of the Islamic Co-operation Agency of the Islamic Institute Standards and the Metrology Institute, which has reached a total of 39. It was necessary to provide confidence in the documents organised by these organisations and to establish the basis for mutual recognition of the legal documents. Therefore, under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Hellal Accreditation Agency is no.4 to organise the structure, task and authority of the organization. Our Hellal Accreditation Agency, which has been organised by the presidential decree of the presidential presidency, is to become the central institution of a country with a say in its region in the coming days, in a global sense. Mr. President, with this decree, we have been set up by this institution as a pioneer in order for these institutions to act within the framework of national and international standards and to ensure the adoption of documents organised in the global sphere. The HaK, which will be the only institution in Turkey to have the authority to provide the legal accordion service, will have the authority to establish and implement the criteria and measures on this subject by providing the legal activisation service for the country and for the established decent fitness assessment agencies abroad. The HAK will represent Turkey, belong to its international and regional Accreditation units and organisations, and will take office in its administrations or serve these organisations as central. The HAK, which will sign bilateral or multilateral recognition agreements, will establish and co-operate with the institutions and organisations associated with the legal consolidation in the countries that do not exist. The institution, which will carry out all kinds of scientific and technical examinations, will organise seminars and so-called seminars and so-called meetings, providing training, research and publications to improve the importance of the halal accordion. In this minival, producing and exporting all products that may be relevant to the area of the hela, in order to be a major contribution to our country's economy, will also ensure that our regulatory system is perfectly appropriate and that our products are safe, healthy, hygienic, and lawful. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0070par0487	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0069par0488	Our country, which is powerful in all areas and institutions, will show the world what an important country Turkey is with its work in the field of the Hellal Accreditation Agency. On this occasion, I pray that our central management budget talks in 2019 will be good, and I salute the Assembly with respect and love, as a result of the 745th Vuslat Anniversary.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0070par0491	Dear friends, this concludes the talks on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Now Mr. Ozkan has an urgent request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0071par0496	Mr. President, thank you so much for giving me this opportunity. I'd like to address the cry of a citizen with a health problem in Bursa, whose mother is on a ventilator, a support machine, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0070par0498	Friends, the General Assembly talks continue, please...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0071par0499	Mr. President, Limak Uludağ is still the nightmare of home tenants in Sales of Energy Sales, Inc. He considers the use of electricity subscriptions that the tenants use on their hosts as illegal use and cuts them off without giving notice. Because of health problems, hundreds of families are victims of elderly and children who need a aid device in their homes, who are unable to function due to a power outage. I ask: Is this persecution in the middle of winter to be paid for membership? Why is electricity cut off without notification to a citizen? This sacrifice must be stopped immediately.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit01spe0072par0502	Thank you. Dear friends, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0072par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 The commission is in place. Now, there will be talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. The first speaker is Istanbul MP Ali Kenanoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kenanoglu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0073par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your statement. First of all, I'd like to point out that I've put up a good word for Alevis, who think like myself and myself, for the President of the Religious Affairs budget approved last night, and that the dialogue should end its assimilationist policy on the Alevis, and I would like to say that the chairman of the Dianets should take his assimilations hand away from them, not the penalty of the President of the Dianets. Dear MPs, our Haqkari MP, who should be here today to represent the will of the people of Haqkari, would like to point out that Leyla Güven is on the 35th day of the continuous and unchanging hunger strike, and I would also like to announce that Leyla Güven's will and demand is our request, and I urge our Parliament and Parliament to be sensitive to this hunger strike that has entered a critical stage on its 35th day. He is also facing a trial in Sincan Prison, but today Mr. Demirtaş is judging the court's justice and the court's court's justice in Sincan Prison. And from here, hello to Mr. Demirtaş, and to all our imprisoned politicians. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Members of parliament, there was another operation against our party this morning in İzmir, and 18 of our parties were taken into custody. Two of them are peace mothers, and they were detained on the basis of a press release a few years ago. We know that this kind of operation will increase as the election approaches. In the June 24th elections, three days before the election, the polls conducted operations in seven counties, and they were taken into custody. The fact that they were released after the June 24th elections didn't change anything because they couldn't carry out their duties. And all the public knows what that means. Congressmans, I'd like to comment on HDP's views on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Currently, Turkey makes about one-sixth of its total imports from the energy sector. Turkey is the world's fifth in natural gas imports, the world's 13th in oil imports, the world's 8th in coal imports, and the world's 13th in petrokoc imports. Almost 99 percent of natural gas comes from outside, and 93 percent of oil comes from outside. Turkey was dependent on outside in 2002 at 67 per cent of total energy. Over the years, total energy dependency is increasing, and there is now an outside dependency on energy that corresponds to 75 percent. On the one hand, the dollar is increasing, and on the other hand, the dependency is increasing, and of course, the bill is reflected on consumers. When we looked at the world's search for energy, nuclear energy began to be abandoned after the explosions of Chernobyl and Fukushima. The speakers just mentioned the number of nuclear power plants in various countries of Europe, but they were nuclear power plants before the disasters of nuclear energy occurred. Right now, all European countries are pursuing dismantling nuclear power plants and not building new nuclear power plants. Whereas in our country, we're dealing with nuclear power plants that are being auctioned to countries where this explosion took place. Also, when we look at Turkey's need for electricity, it is important to say that Turkey is at a point where the current electricity production will be well satisfied. However, from the 70s to this side, the public is constantly sensing that Turkey has a serious energy deficit and that nuclear energy is needed, and statistical information does not fit very well. And when you look at these tenders for nuclear energy, it is known that, in fact, Turkey's electricity tenders have been seriously addictive, but, for example, Russia has been guaranteed to buy electricity in a three times more expensive way over the past 15 years. In the current case, electricity will be sold at 4-4.5 cents per kilowatt hour, while electricity will be sold at 12.3 cents at the plant during the fifteen-year period mentioned as the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. Projects such as Akkuyu, particularly after the Russian crash, have been halted, but Russia has now been revived, and Russia has become as profitable as possible by selling the world's most expensive nuclear investment to Turkey. On the other hand, the Russians in Mersin, the Japanese in Sinop, and the Chinese in Centipede are the senior partners in the project, so they own a large share. The impact of foreign capital imported from these countries will be at every stage of the project and at the decision-making point. Russia is a senior partner in Akkuyu stocks, which will have a minimum 51 per cent. So there's no way to tell where the native and national literature of anti-nuclearism fits in here. However, as long as there are dreams of nature, such as external dependence on natural gas and the production of electrical energy from a nuclear plant, the cost of the bill on the poor is increasing as long as there are natural enemies. We need to take a look at the state of these bills. The increase in electricity since Christmas has exceeded 30 per cent for electricity use of industry, trade and agricultural irrigation. The home users' electricity bill increased by 8.72 per cent, effective from 1 October. At the same time, the bill paid by households for monthly electricity increased by 44.9 per cent per year compared to the end of 2017. At a new increase, a family's monthly electricity bill of 4 people exceeds 137 lira over the minimum 230 kilowatt hours, which is a $42.6 raise compared to last year. Although your media can give it as a price update, but what comes out of the pockets of the public can make it very clear what that means. High-profile increases in electricity prices point to a vicious cycle. Because when you raise electricity, you actually increase all the production points in the economy, and they're faced with raising the price. BOTAS increased nine per cent in natural gas housing by 18.5 per cent in industry, effective from October 1, 2018. In both August and September, BOTAS raised 9 per cent in natural gas housing by 14 per cent in the industry. If natural gas increases continue in the same manner in November, the rate of increase in 2018 will be up to 54 percent in the household alone. In just 2018, the increases in natural gas increased by 9.7 per cent of the gas sold to power plants and industry on April 1st 2018; on 1 August 2018, the electricity-producing power plants announced a 49.5% increase. The same day, BOTAS announced that it increased the price of natural gas used in the dwellings by 9 per cent and the price of natural gas used in the industry by 14 per cent. BOTAS announced an increase of 9 per cent of natural gas used in the dwelling on September 1, 2018, while natural gas used in the industry increased by 14 per cent. The increase in electricity in the year 2018 alone has increased by 8.8 per cent to electricity used in housing and 8.4 per cent to electricity used in industrial and commercial facilities on 1 January 2018, and 2.89 per cent to increase in 1 April 2018. On August 1, 2018, electricity prices increased by 9 per cent to 14 per cent, depending on different subscribers. Electric prices were again raised between 9 per cent and 14 per kilowatt on September 1, 2018. According to the Chamber of Chemical Engineers, we need to see from New Year's to today that electricity used in housing has increased by 31 per cent and industrial electricity by 41 per cent. Dear friends, of course, we've brought up the damage to nature on several occasions, along with the search of some of the villages of Sivas, such as Mursal, Kangal, Bakırtepe, of this Mine Study and Search Directorate. I'd like to remind you of that. This Ministry, Department of Energy and Natural Resources, also has a matter of direct concern for Alevis, my friends. This is actually Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit, Deputy Prime Minister State Gardener on April 12, 2002... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0074par0069	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0073par0070	Now, a decision is being made here in the Council of Ministers, and in this period, the frameworks are being taken out of the scope of the meetinghouse, with the decision of the Council of Ministers. In this case, electricity bills continue to be cut on their cameras. Mosques, churches, synagogues, synagogues are kept under the temple, which are exempted from electricity and so on, but on April 12, 2002, an electric bill continues to be sent to their houses. This decision, which was carried out during the Bulent Ecevit and State Gardening period, has not been eliminated for 16 years, has not been replaced, and the AKP's government has been implementing its mosques for 16 years without taking them into worship. This went all the way to the European Court of Human Rights, and the European Court of Human Rights found that Alevi were right, and they were said to be part of the temple. However, again, the ECHR did not recognise its decision, and at the moment, electricity bills continue to come to its houses. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0075par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0076par0074	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0075par0075	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like a moment's notice from 69. To explain something.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0076par0076	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0075par0079	Mr. President, dear friends, I've tried to listen carefully to the speaker. When the election was near in Izmir, he made a statement that bothered us, as the police were operating through the AK PARTY. We've been informed that the operation was carried out because 17 people were on hunger strike to assist Ocalan, while making a press statement, in front of the terrorist organization brochures, in front of their flags, and 8 people were collecting money for the CK. So I invite you to be more sensitive about these matters. We will, of course, fight terrorism within the framework of the law, but we're close to election here, the AK PARTY has a price, there's a bill, and we don't think the approach is right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0076par0080	Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0077par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0076par0082	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0077par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, it's a given. We're talking about a press release two years ago, and a large number of people were taken into custody by raiding their homes. This is just this last week. Our three-term executives are all in prison in the city where I'm now a congressman. Now, when you listen to an operation on television, it's almost announced by the name of the organization, but then we look at what's being taken, it's all about party managers, and their work is about peacekeeping. There's a Peace Commission in Kars. There's a Peace Commission set up with the old people of the city to solve some tensions, fights, blood feuds. Our executives, who run our work on the same axis, are being criminalized.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0078par0089	Let's open it up, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0077par0090	Whether it's political or not, there's obviously an unfair detention, an arbitrary arrest, and a direct approach to political work, a goal of social work, and a criminalizing approach. It's not just a coincidence that they're condensed when the election season is coming up, that they're left right after the election, that some of the names are just a timing hit, I guess. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0078par0092	Mr. Turan, do you have a request?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0079par0094	Mr. President, thank you. Actually, I don't think it's right to extend it on the basis of the procedure economy. Because the speaker on the stand told me about Izmir, I answered, and now another example has been given. There's no end to this. Other examples, other provinces can be said. The point is, I don't think it's right to express a process of judgment in its own way here as if it were the step of the AK PARTI. In addition, the action involved a strike against Ocalan (Ecalan) for support of terrorist activities. Our friends need to see this.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0080par0098	Mr. President, don't say terrorist action, it's a hunger strike.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0079par0099	We know that Batasuna's decision was only closed because he said that a party in Europe did not condemn the activities of terrorism. It's a crime. When these crimes happen, should the judge not step forward or step forward? So what are we supposed to do? This is what the election is doing, he says. That's not the right approach. I'd like to express that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0081par0102	One last time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0082par0103	Mr. Bilgen, let's not get ahead of ourselves. We're talking about the budget.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0083par0104	Hunger strike is not a crime.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0082par0105	Guys, let's not talk without making a promise, please. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0084par0108	Mr. President, I gave the sample last week in Urbana, earlier in Mersin, Diyarbakır, and Van. Yes, the intervention in the hunger strikes, the hunger strike for Leyla Güven, solidarity strikes, took place within the party, during this passive act within the building. Now, not once on the street, there's no way they can influence public order, no chance of harm. These aren't things that require detention, which is another kind of trial, if that's the case, it can be run. Besides, there's a habit of preventive intervention. There is no hunger strike in Izmir, dear friends. It's a preventive intervention in case it happens, in case it happens. This is exactly what we call the Bush doctrine. So -- I'm saying in a nail -- a verb is to do it before an action takes place, so there are now about 7,000 politicians in prison, who have been taken into custody for a year and a half, who are not prepared for indictments. Thank you. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0085par0148	Now it's time for Diyarbakir MP Musa Faris Sons. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0086par0152	Mr. President and valued lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party regarding the budget of the Energy Ministry and its institutions in the year 2019. I welcome our people and all who have had the opportunity to follow us on this occasion. First of all, we're in Human Rights Week, and Turkey, especially today, wishes that human rights violations end quickly in the Middle East, and I want to insist that we continue to fight for it. I also salute all the institutions and workers who work in this area by putting their teeth into it for the people of the region. The honorable MPs, Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, have been under heavy isolation in İmralı since his arrest. The isolation conditions are deepened day by day by pleasure and insensitivity. The imralı status, the execution regime, and this deepened isolation are against the law, the executive provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, the CPT reports, and the execution laws and regulations. Mr. Abdullah Ocalan has not been interviewed by his attorneys since 27 July 2011, with his family since 6 October 2014, and with the Imran delegation since 5 April 2015. These obstructions and violations of rights are unacceptable, such as the air opposition, which is being done for non-responsive reasons, such as the lack of COSTER. The deepening of isolation conditions is also a sign of a systematic attack on their legitimate rights. Furthermore, since April 2015, another aspect of the issue is concern about safety. In Turkey, isolation has been adopted as a torture tool, not as a simple execution policy for political prisoners and prisoners from the beginning. The systematic isolation policy imposed on the Imralı is not simply an attack on Ocalan's person, it should not be overlooked that an attack on the Kurdish people was targeted by inhumane practices deepened in the Ocalan person. In the region and in the Middle East, the political power, which wants to bring all the war policies into effect, aims to break the will of the Kurdish people, as it continues with a deepened lockdown against Mr. Ocalan. However, the AKP, which is acting on this goal, is dragging Turkey into an economic, legal, strategic, and political fire to prevent the gains of only Kurds and peoples in the Middle East. Politicians and bureaucrats within the AKP are well aware of Mr. Ocalan's reality that Mr. Ocalan is the only important actor in Turkey and the democratisation of the Middle East who can make democratic politics a resolving force in the establishment of social peace. However, Mr. Ocalan wants to hear and learn about the safety of his life and health from the Kurdish people in person. In view of all these realities, I would also like to point out that the unchanging and indefinitely continuous hunger strike launched by Democratic Society Congress and Hakkari MP Leyla Güven is on its 35th day today and has come to the critical threshold. Tens of thousands of political prisoners and millions of people in Turkey are now in prison, and we demand the request of Leyla Güven, who have been accepted and carried out by Abdullah Ocalan in order to draw attention to the systematic isolation of Abdullah Ocalan. In the first place, Mr. Leyla Güven, the right understanding of these hunger strikes involving our politicians trapped in Turkey's prisons and of the isolation of Mr. Ocalan must be taken in order to immediately abandon these pressure policies on the people of Turkey. The hunger strikes launched by all political prisoners and politicians, including Mr. Leyla Güven, who is a deputy of this Parliament, are now incumbent on the current Parliament to ensure that their demands are not reached in the future, and that their demands are met immediately. As you know, Parliament is working with lack of legitimacy, both because of recent arrests. Mr. Leyla Güven, our Hakkari MP and the Co-Chair of Democratic Society Congress, is being held hostage in prison illegally and antidemocratically. The imprisonment of an elected MP in antidemocratic and illegal ways has already taken its place in history as a disgrace to the current Parliament. Mr. Leyla Güven, who, along with him, has been tasked to continue the fight for peace and freedom for all the people of Turkey, has been imprisoned under the same conditions of isolation as our elected politicians, who, regardless of what happens in this country, have worked to silence weapons, establish democratic political ground, maintain basic rights and freedoms on the most civilized level. On November 4, 2016, a major genocide operation was carried out against Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and Kurdish politicians, as a result of this operation, and our co-Chairs and deputies, along with our co-Chairs and deputies, were taken hostage by thousands of Kurdish politicians. With all these realities, as you can appreciate, we are going through a period of multiple crises in Turkey. The economic crisis, the political crisis, and the social crisis are one aspect of the problems that we face in the main topics of the crisis, the crisis that is dependent on energy. The energy policy, which has been created in accordance with regional power balances, has already lost its validity. Unless Turkey solves its problems inside, the crisis will deepen, not on the basis of violence in regional policy, but on the basis of peace, and it will be at the expense of the people of Turkey. When we look at what civilized countries do in the world that have solved their internal problems, we can clearly see that they've determined a model that uses their resources primarily with human focus and builds peace. For example, while democratic countries allocate their resources to clean energy and shut down their nuclear power plants, the AKP government spends more time polarizing, more violence. The AKP can give Russia its nuclear power plant, which is planned to be held in Akkuyu, to form its Neoosmanism policy in Syria, as well as to continue its anti-Kurdish policies in the Middle East. So, what does the AKP reap in return for planting anti-Kurdish anti-Kurdishism? He makes contracts that cost the people a lot of money, invites them for the natural disaster, paves the way for thousands of years for diseases that will plague the people of this land. So basically, he's planting anti-Kurdish anti-Kurdish, causing disasters against Turkey and the people of the Middle East. In this area, he calls the anti-Kurdish anti-Kurdishism,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Akkuyu, however, does not produce domestic and national energy in Sinop. It produces addiction in all areas. These projects are the biggest betrayal of the country's ecological wealth as well as human health, the mortgage of Turkey's future to foreigners.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0087par0166	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0086par0167	Dear lawmakers, to sum up, the absolute isolation of the Imralı since 5 April 2015 has not and will not benefit this country. Political crises deepened, democracy eliminated, basic rights and freedoms suspended. All of these are issues that need to be considered as a whole. If today a level of economic prosperity in Turkey is needed in terms of energy, you must listen to the demands of Mr. Leyla Güven, the parliamentary speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Civil peace must be established, basic rights and freedoms must be made habitable as soon as possible. With all these realities today, Turkey is in greater crises than ever before, and unfortunately these crises will have a deeper impact in 2019. Our recommendation to the government is to eliminate the systematic, heavy isolation provisions that are being carried out to all peoples of Turkey through Mr. Abdullah Ocalan in the first place. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a voice to the demands of Mr. Leyla Güven is the immediate release of 80-year-old peace mothers unconditionally and unconditionally. You're not giving me time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0088par0171	I'm not giving it to you, I've given it to you once more, so let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0086par0172	And on this occasion, I thank you, and salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0089par0174	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0088par0175	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0089par0178	Mr. President, the baby killer, Ocalan, the leader of the terrorist organization PKK, the imperialist butler, is a murderer and a traitor to the ringleader. And now he's in Imralı Prison, paying for his crimes. He's the ringleader for the reign of terror leader, the death of tens of thousands of our people, and the testimony. We strongly condemn and deny the establishment of the spokesman for a terrorist ringleader from this bench. I hereby declare that HDP is also an extension of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0088par0181	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0089par0182	The talk went through with the propaganda of the PKK terror organization. Ocalan, what do we say about our martyrs? This bench is not a terrorist stand, so everyone's got to keep their wits about you, watch your mouth, watch your step! [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] And, Mr. President, regarding this conversation, we would like to suggest that we expect you to run the Civil Code decrees. The fight against Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is also considered a violation of will to the Kurdish people, a move against them, and we strongly deny it. The Republic of Turkey is waging a decisive struggle for the integrity of 81 million lives and possessions, for the integrity of our country, our country, our nation, our state.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0090par0187	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0089par0188	No one will be the spokesman for the terrorist organization. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0090par0191	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0091par0193	Mr. President, dear friends, the speaker has spoken without raising his head from a text we don't know where it was given to him, in the harshest terms, to our group, to call it an attack on the state. He expressed that we were against the Kurdish people, that there was a war, etc. Mr. President, since the AK PARTY was founded, until now the Kurdish people, not the Turkish people, have tried to ensure the unity of this nation by taking great steps. It's not about being against Kurdish people, it's about being against terrorism. Our fight against terrorism will continue with the same determination from beginning to end. That's why we reject all these statements. I want to express that our struggle is not with our Kurdish brothers, but with terrorists. In addition, Mr. President, in the brief conversation, the leader of the terrorist organization, the leader of the terrorist organization, the leader of a court-ordered terrorist organization, the one he didn't kill, the one he didn't kill, the soldier, the police, the teacher, the nurse, the doctor, the worker, the officer...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0092par0197	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0093par0198	Baby...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0094par0199	Baby killer...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0095par0200	What more does a man have to do that he has no one left to kill, that he shouldn't be called, who else should he kill, that he should be called evil? This language is not a good language, Mr. President. See, in Europe -- they're always given examples of decisions related to the ECHR -- we're not just putting distance between us and terror. A party was shut down because it said. Turkey has taken great distance in democratic steps, allowing any ideas, any opinions, to be held in parliament. No more closing parties in Turkey, but a relationship with terrorism is a different thing with terrorism. What do you mean, Mr. Ocalan? Then let someone else say "Mr." There's no end to it, it's not the right approach. That's why this language has to be a language that suits the spirit of the people. We reject this language, we condemn it. In terms of the Civil Code, I'd like to at least express that there is a language that disrupts the working order, and I invite you to step forward. It's also an act of praising the guilty and the guilty, and that can't happen.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0096par0203	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0095par0204	It's not a democratic right to praise the terrorist, to respect the terrorist. Such approaches to hurt the soul of 81 million are of no use to anyone. I invite everyone to use a more careful language on this subject.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0096par0206	Mr. Secalioglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0097par0208	I'm going to repeat this issue today when I gave my speech yesterday about the budget. And again, I'm actually declaring what's happening, and I'm showing the political line that we're standing on. In this country, the head of the state's murder ring, which refers to the integrity of the nation, can't say in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the place where the state's founding will is expressed, that the servant of God cannot say, "He is a servant of God." Look, friends, we're a great nation, a great state. We can't sit here and let the people in our community who chose you here take cover behind the fact that they sent you here, but we're not trying to say that we haven't lost enough respect for ourselves to sit here and threaten you on the microphones, but you should know that we've been cutting off the jugular veins of anyone who's been referring to our government, our nation for a thousand years.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0096par0211	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0097par0212	Therefore, he knows what we deserve and what we pay for these lands. It is known with what precision we wait for our lands; the demander, the possessor, the price of those who claim him in this land is in our historical record, but we must warn you not to act in accordance with the spirit of this House, in accordance with the spirit of this House, in honor of its individuality, in accordance with the state that it has established, in which it protects and protects, in accordance with the spirit of this Assembly. This is not only due to you, but also to the respect and responsibility that we have for the testimony of our friends, brothers and children, who are fighting on the frontline today, tomorrow, and who are fighting on the other side of the border. The part of your attention to your sentences can be said from our point of view: our Speaker will watch our backs, the Civil Code will be run, the law will be enforced. It is our Speaker's duty to remind him of the law of what it takes to praise the crime and the criminal.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0096par0215	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0097par0216	Turkey is a state of law. In this state of law, these are defined crimes. There are consequences for those who say, "I will commit this crime." I mean, this isn't the place to bully, this is the National Assembly. The head of a murder ring in the Assembly of the Nation does not belong to the assembly of the nation, which says, 'Take it.' So, don't make this a polemic issue, where all democratic rights can be demanded, spoken, everything can be negotiated; terrorism can't be done here.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0096par0218	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0098par0219	Mr. President, we'd like a word, too.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0096par0220	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0098par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. So we all know that three years ago, this state -- we don't just call it "AKP" as an official policy -- was meeting with Ocalan, the Imralı, long-time talks were held, supported by our party, went to the island several times from our party, went there to Kandil, where Turkey had a very important problem, and that an effort had been made to build peace. It wasn't the right thing to do, it was a state policy. All the government's organs...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0099par0224	It's not a state, it's not a state.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0098par0225	I'm not saying that AKP is a state. This step was taken with a joint consortium with the organs of the entire state. Perhaps the most appropriate, best...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0100par0227	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0098par0228	It's supposed to be the most useful job he's ever done for this community. That's how our party sees it. It wasn't complete, we had a much more bloody process. Of course, we put it aside, but this is the period... you can say what you want right now, but this state, at some point -- it's going to be like this in the end, we all know that it's going to be like this, and we all know that it's going to be like this -- it's seen as an important factor, it saw as a force that would end the war, and so, this experience stands in front of Turkey. As for HDP...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0101par0230	This is not called the war.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0102par0231	And it turned out that effort was futile.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0103par0232	War is between two nations.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0104par0233	You may not say war. Mr. President, they won't let me talk. I'd like you to consider my time.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0105par0235	We can't listen to you here.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0106par0236	Fighting terrorism is not war.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0104par0237	I'll tell you that. In the middle of the 1990s, 1994, the Chief of Staff of the era, open the archives...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0107par0240	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0104par0241	...born Wrestling was called a low-density war. Now, if we're talking about the death of a man who has reached the 50 thousand, whether you want to call it a fight in our village or say this, but when there's a serious issue, we can't solve it. Friends, the HDP argues that we can't solve the problem again by calling it the extension of the HDP here, the extension of the place.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0108par0243	It's not the extension, it's the essence!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0104par0244	In a common country, in a democratic, common country, the HDP sees the flag, built by its blood, as common value, by the collective labor of all the peoples living here, but there is not a single nation here, there is not a single language, there is not a single faith in Turkey. We, as free citizens in a democratic country...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0109par0246	We can't listen to this shit, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0104par0247	Intervent what?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0109par0248	It's not that bad!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0110par0249	Complete it, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0104par0250	Such a disgrace, such a...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0109par0251	English is spoken, there is brotherhood, unity, unity...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0110par0252	Wait a minute... guys...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0109par0253	You can't represent our Kurdish brothers!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0111par0254	Please, let me tell you what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0110par0255	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0111par0256	I call it this, Mr. President: You've been calling it a party -- and I have to say this -- you're an Antidemocratic to the party that he's been leaving from. He said, "Leader is a sultan." He said, "It's a leader's sultan." He left, but now we're going to go to the election, and we're going to see that I'm more right-wing than any of you." I'm more racist than all of you. I'm denying it than all of you." Especially in this budget, we're getting phone calls threatening us in our rooms right now, and you're responsible for that, and now, again, the group vice president has completed his threatening talks. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0112par0260	The Civil Code, Mr. President!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0113par0263	Guys, now, this whole group of our vice presidents has been having a discussion about the speaker on the stand. Of course, there is not as much interference as possible on the stand, but there is a provision in the Internal Charter of 67, on the stand and elsewhere that points to the lack of crude and hurtful expressions used and the use of a clean language, which authorises the president to conduct the session. In addition, the provision of the 161st amendment of the Civil Code (3) includes punishments for speaking in a manner of praising the crime and the criminal in general, in a manner that is contrary to the constitutional order. Here, I ask the orators not to use rude and hurtful expressions when speaking, but the majority of our nation and the Assembly should not use hurtful statements and speak clean language to our delegation. I want to remind you of that here.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0114par0267	I'd like to remind you, Mayor, if I may. I mean, the concept of this concept, the concept of the patient, in 2011... we've been punished a lot. In 2011, however, the Supreme Court 8. His apartment took it out of the sense of praise of the guilty and the guilty, so there is no such verdict. Judgement has ruled that this is not a crime. There is such a decision.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0115par0268	No, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0116par0269	Mr. President, we're talking about the Civil Code, the Civil Code.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0117par0270	We can never accept such a thing, we can never accept it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0118par0271	Guys, this is a separate discussion.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0119par0272	We don't need you to remind us, Mr. President, we want you to enforce the Civil Code.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0120par0273	I mean, when you're not there, when you're not on trial, when we're here...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0118par0274	It may be an individual use of judgment, but there is a separate legal consequence of the repeated use of speech in the General Assembly to disrupt the silence. I'd like to express that as a lawyer here.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0121par0275	Mr. President, the Supreme Court decision is not about the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're talking about the Civil Code. The Constitutional Court will decide. So we expect you to run the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0122par0276	161, isn't it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0121par0277	The 161st article. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0123par0316	Friends, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the third speaker is Şanlıurfa MP Omar Ocalan.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0121par0318	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0124par0319	Mr. President, are we going through with this? Mr. President, let's not get ahead of ourselves. You need to run the Civil Code. So in the smallest matter here, the Supreme Court, which governs the Civil Code, will remain silent on this matter, and will be the co-host of further developments.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0123par0320	Friends, I'm acting in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0121par0321	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0123par0322	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0121par0323	If you don't run the required Civil Code in this matter, you'll turn this podium into a terrorist stand. You need to do the procedure, the precaution.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0125par0324	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0126par0325	You can't call us terrorists, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0127par0326	Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0128par0327	We're gonna listen to the terrorist organization's propaganda day and night?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0129par0329	Before we clarify your position on this matter, if you insist on your decision, we'd like to open a formal discussion about your decision.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0127par0330	Let the speaker finish, I'll take a break.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0129par0331	Mr. President, no, you can't start the speaker until this is over. Before you make up your mind about this, I'd like to start a formal discussion of your attitude.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0127par0332	I've called the speaker to the stand, Mr. Turkkan, and I'll open it after I've finished.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0130par0333	Call him back.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0131par0334	Take a break, Mr. President, then take a break.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0132par0335	Mr. President, look, you're the one who said you can't ask for a formal debate after you passed last time about the procedure debate.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0133par0336	No.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0132par0337	And I say, if you insist on your decision regarding this matter, we'd like to open a formal discussion on this matter before we go to another speaker.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0133par0338	Mr. Turkkan, last time was about a final vote. You're demanding an application here, a job that hasn't been done. I'm going to open up a legal debate about this.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0132par0339	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0133par0340	The speaker's on the stand, let him finish his speech, and then I'll start a formal discussion about the implementation of disciplinary provisions.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0132par0341	Okay.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0342	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are correct, some of the issues are being discussed here, and we will continue to argue and talk. In the 90s, we also saw that DeP MP Mehmet Sincars had been shot in the back of the neck; we also saw the MPs who were in prison; our former Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ; and our dear friend, Sırrıyya Önder, who was arrested a few days ago, we also sent him to prison. Unfortunately, there's a lot to be said here, you can argue, you can argue, you can view it as hurtful and destructive words, but if there's a democracy in this country, we have to show each other the ability to endure. The matter of Layla's trust means something to us, it's precious, it's been on an unchanging hunger strike for 35 days. Thirty-five days is a critical time. Layla Güven is a member of this community, she is a member of parliament, she has demands. This is the political dimension, and it's useful to mention this political dimension. We have something to say in the other dimension. If you'll just listen, if you can bear it, we'll tell you what we'll tell you. Layla Güven was elected on June 24th, currently on a non-turning hunger strike for 35 days. The cause of the hunger strike is a lockdown on Mr. Ocalan, my friends. No family's seen him in two and a half years. The ruling MPs are here, the people responsible are here. The last time he visited was September 11, 2016. We're calling from here to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Abdulhamit Gül. Open a channel, let's go see him as his family.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0135par0344	What's going on, Mr. President, he's saying again!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0136par0345	Mr. President, you need to end this conversation, you need to stop this humiliation!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0346	There are concerns about his life, his health.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0136par0347	He's being stubborn about what we're talking about. He's investigating the House!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0348	Whether you agree or not, we're here to say what we think.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0136par0349	You mustn't let him!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0350	In 2013, he issued a declaration of peace in Diyarbakır, for the peace and quiet of the country; we stand behind him, we support him. How that letter came from the Imran, our fellow trustees know very well: this is one. Friends, the other part is actually my uncle as a family. We haven't had any contact in two years. Look, if we put aside the political dimension, let one channel open, always pay a visit with the family -- one brother, one sister, one nephew -- just like two and a half years ago. It's a human thing; it has to be visited in the state of law.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0137par0352	This is not the place to discuss your family matters, this is not a family matter.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0353	That's the way it's supposed to be, so you should know that you can't go out there and talk and figure this out. February 28, 2015, the Dolmabahçe agreement is out in the open. We're not people with fish memory.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0138par0355	Go to the mother of those babies that the killer had killed before you go to her parents' island.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0356	Behold, there is Efkan Ala, and Yalçın Akdoğan, and Mahir Ünal; and there is one of us, and there is one of us, who leads the secret.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0139par0357	Mr. Orator, please discuss what you have promised.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0138par0358	Go to the mothers of those babies that the killer had killed!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0359	That's one thing to say.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0138par0360	If you're doing all that soul-searching, go to the mothers of those babies and go to the mothers of the children in the fire!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0361	This meeting took place at the most important palaces in this country. We say that this war -- whether you say war or war -- is a blind war, there is no end. We're in favor of peace, democracy, dialogue and resolution. Guys, we're gonna go ahead and point that out. That's right, there's a community structure that's been under duress, there's been violence for 40 years, and people have lost their young children from there, from here. I don't discriminate, but this should be discussed and discussed. And that's not gonna happen. Layla's request is also our request. That's right, I'd like to make a few points on what we're talking about. Some of the activities on nuclear and boron energy may be happening now, but unless they're human and nature-based, they're harmful to society and geography. They talk about locals and nationals, they call Russia, they give them the contract, they call them in a different tender, they give them the Chinese, they give them the contract there. The ideas, the opinions, the opinions of the workers, the workers, or the people who are victims, are not reflected anywhere. You say you're local and national, and in your activities, you get a phone call from the U.S.A., you leave religious members, you do different things. At this point, we point out, friends, that all the problems of society, economic, political, social problems need to be discussed here, need to be discussed. That's right, there is an election on March 31, 2019. Who can be developed in terms of this election? From where can we get votes, from which base can we shift votes to a different party? But these social problems are very important. We're going to talk about it, and we're going to continue to argue about it, guys. We want to talk about here, again, the problems of our city, because Urbana is a big city. It's important to point out that the problems of this agriculture, the problems of the farmer, the problems of the tradesman... we've been talking about it the last time, unfortunately, people are still looking. Besides, there's a winter situation, a time of corn and crops. The market, which was opened two months ago for $1,250, is currently unable to find traders who will sell the nation's corn for $820. They say there's no money on the market, there's no money. At this point, the agriculture of this country, when the relevant ministries of this country are developing policies, unfortunately, these people have to consider the needs of our farmers, so there's a great plain there, the Plain of Harran; it starts in Akchakale; Harran is in Redtepe, it's in Viranşehir, Siverek, Hilvan, Bozova... People are working hard, they want to contribute to agriculture, they want to contribute to this country's national income. As we know, the lack of politics of power also comes to the forefront of this point; it goes, bringing corn from the outside by ships. Our farmers here can't find a merchant to sell their corn, my friends. Go downtown, look, people are crying. They turned municipalism into asphalt and concrete municipalism. At the same time, they start construction on the road to Diyarbakir, as well as some construction activities, bridge activities on the Suruç-Antep road. Traffic's like this, people can't get home at night. We have to address these issues here, the problems of the country, of the city. Guys, they're doing everything they can to keep us from talking about things that are deeply, deeply, deeply, deeply affected by society, but we need to talk, guys. What should we do besides talk? This country has many problems; economic problems, political problems, social problems. We're going to talk, so that's why our people sent us here. A few days ago, we went on a hunger strike in our own province. 47 of our friends have been taken into custody in the province.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0140par0368	It doesn't look like it!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0369	They've been suspended for eight days. I'm afraid these people are going to be taken into custody like this...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0141par0370	You were all fat, all of you!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0134par0371	There are detention periods that go up to 12/7. We express our people's demands, opinions, ideas on this bench, we talk to the authorities, we call the deputy governor, we say: The party's party in front of our building is being held, the party's GBT is being made, the mayor's going to the party, the GBT is being made. Viceroy, we don't know. We don't know. We're thinking of different things right now. If the deputy governor, the governor, the law enforcement authorities don't know about this, then who are they to stand outside that door and do these practices, and where do they get the authority? At this point, we're calling the interested ones: friends, it's the election season. Stop these persecution policies that you've led to our party at once. I'm not going too far. And I salute the General Assembly. And we will continue to fight.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit02spe0142par0374	Dear friends, I'd like to invite our group presidents to meet. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0142par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, Mr. Musa Faris, the MP of Diyarbakır, we have reviewed the entire speech that he had just made. In general, we felt that the Article 157 of the Civil Code was required to be warned because it violated peace and order of work in accordance with Article (2). I sentence him to be warned according to Article 158 of the Civil Code. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 The commission is in place. Now on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 12 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0143par0049	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the budgets of the esteemed MPs, the Department of Mines and Search, the Institute for Research on Rare Earth Elements, and the General Directorate of Mines and Oil. I salute you and the public. Before I begin my remarks, I salute Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Sır Sırrıyya Başal. In these terms of Turkey, where those who make their own move to international law have destroyed the law in their own country. Today, tomorrow and the day after, Mr. Selahattin will teach law at Demirtaş Sincan. From here, I send my regards to all political prisoners. Dear lawmakers, production is one of the most important elements for the economy of a country. It's only natural for an economy without production to be open to international interference. In this case, it is necessary to speed up your production policies. If these policies are supported by renewable energy sources, if they take the environment and human life at its center, we can become a habitable world and a country where imports are reduced and exports are increasing. But in doing so, showing understanding in the direction of capital and bosses that does not take a person into their center also invites death. Because capitalism feeds on destruction, not life. Unfortunately, Turkey has become one of the model countries of wild capitalism. Neoliberal policies are responsible for those who have lost their lives in Soma, Shirvan, Şırnak, and Ermenek. The cities covered in dust, contaminated underground waters, and the main responsibility for disappearing natural life and environmental pollution are capital-guided studies. With the transfer of government resources to the private sector, the exploitation of labor has reached its limit. Public mining, which gained speed in the 1990s and reached its end during the AKP era, was the center of the country's competitiveness and commercialisation of its resources. In the competition for capital, the share of workers and workers has been deaths. According to data provided by the General Directorate of Mines, 40 more public mines have been dispossessed in seven years. 57 public mines currently in operation will slowly disappear and natural resources will be completely left to capital. Not just resources, but people's lives will be left at the mercy of this sector. I'd like to ask the Minister: How many searches has MTA made in Turkey in the last two years? What did the MTA come up with as a result of its resources to the private sector? Dear lawmakers, 128,195 people are serving in the mining sector, according to Social Security Agency data. Of course, that doesn't include the workers of the mines that were run in illegal mines, or rather, allowed to work illegally. Along with these, more than 200,000 are mentioned. When a citizen launches, all security forces mobilise, but companies are allowed to play with people's lives in illegal mines all over Turkey. Look, five citizens died in Şırnak. The authorities immediately called it a runaway. It is the presence of a structure that does not want to take responsibility for it by calling the place where its coal was taken. This is the general nature of mining policy. How can it be explained that the activities of the mines, many of which have been activated outside the law, are still functioning? On what grounds are the companies operating these activities licensed? According to the State Control Board's report, 86.3% of workers exposed to job killings have been found to be made up of 53.56 percent of workers who have lost their lives in work killings. The job killings in the mines and the responsibility of the government are publicly acknowledged by the state's highest authority institutions. Dear lawmakers, budgets should not be made a method of transferring money to companies. Budgets should not be transformed into war machines. Look, there are a lot of rare soil elements. This soil is used in many fields from steel alloy to metal alloy, from ceramic to glass, from petrochemistry to electricity to electronics, from textile to solar energy. The largest share in the market is China. Our country also had about 20 studies between 1965 and 2004. As a result, it has been recorded that nothing significant has been achieved. The Department of Energy has not done enough research on the rare soil elements the country has. Look, we've got a search and business license issued by the Department of Mines. The search, which was 36,098 in 2008, fell to 6.624 in 2018 in ten years. There's not much change in businesses anyway. Prices are rising rapidly due to the rapid increase in use areas and amounts in recent years. In the coming years, the worldwide volume of nine billion dollars in trade is mentioned. Mr. Oktay, we are conducting detailed seismic searches with our national ships to explore the potential of hydrocarbons in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. After these seismic searches, we use our multi-millimeter drilling ship, the Conqueror, again in deep and shallow sea drilling. In addition to the conqueror, our second drilling ship will be included in our portfolio in early 2019. With these ships, we will follow an active strategy in the search for oil and natural gas by drilling separately throughout the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. On 30/10/2018, Fatih began drilling at the Alanya-1 well off the coast of Alania. The 2011 South Korean-made Scandinavian Odfjell Drilling company also operates our national ship, which was purchased for about 200 million U.S. dollars, as well as a national Caspian Drilling company! In our nationalized ship, nearly 200 people from almost every nation -- China, Japan, Norway -- are working! Of course, the ratio of local and national engineers or employees to about 5 to 10 percent! Because this project is a domestic and national project! In the United States of America, more than 400,000 wells have been dug in the Permian basin alone in a hundred years, about 4,700-4 so far in our country. When we think that 800 wells have been dug, and that the TPAO, the TPIC partnership, has been drilling a well on land in our Southeast Anatolian District in the last few months, we are eagerly and fearfully awaiting the consequences and cost of our multinational drilling ship, which is about $400,500,000 a day, if we think about how many other companies have finished drilling in the last few months. We are also very curious about the conditions in which the second ship, which had just taken privatisation steps and then left TPAO, was to be replaced by a work accident in the well operations and to try to reorganise its newly constructed organization, would be transferred, bought or purchased, under which conditions, and which promises were given and what initiatives would be drilled in the south of Cyprus. We are bored to see that Israel's people, who oppose the drilling in the south of Cyprus, who make a fuss, but then turn away and remain silent, and that the institutions later refrain from making a noise about the sale of this gas with US private companies. After all, let our domestic and national drilling ship be blessed and how much American dollars, sorry, domestic and national, we're waiting to see how much it costs. Dear lawmakers, the New Economic Programme, which is said to cover the 2019-2021 period, is actually called YEP, not YEP, and this is the bait to get through the March 2019 elections, which is announced to the beloved carp fish. The first signals of the economic crisis were given in 2016 by the AKP's President (Pumpada) saying, "The water ran out in 2016." When I spoke to the General Assembly in 2017, I said there was no water in the pump, but the hoses were full of water. I also told you that the water in the hose is useless unless the pump works. If the whole country were wired with proper pipelines instead of a hose system, I assure you, this water in the pool would make a regular green all over the country. Unfortunately, since the hose system is irregular and disorderly, its diameters and lengths are completely irregular, it turns some regions into swamps. Now, the law of compound containers, which is the simplest law of physics, is to be enforced, with which a balance is needed. There's a saying in Kurdish, they say, "Hold the horses, the pedestrians are ours." Balance the rich, and the poor are ours. Since the diameter and length of the hoses are irregular, there is no balance for you here. Some tornadoes are even known to lie abroad. There's no way in hell the account book's gonna fit in the hose system. Of course, the incompatibility brings the imbalance. If you can't provide a fair, balanced revenue distribution in the country, you can't achieve social balance, social peace, and you can't achieve peace. Come on, don't fool people by giving word games and numbers and even contradicting yourself. Say inflation is 21.62 per cent, and then when you increase support to the farmer 10.7 per cent, admit that you will pay 11 per cent less in real terms than the previous year.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0144par0070	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0143par0071	Thank you. Explain why the national education budget is at its highest, and yet, in desperation, you still can't solve the problem of paid teaching. Explain why paid teachers who have been working for five, ten, 15 years have not been recruited when the teacher needed them. Explain why you can't employ thousands of teachers while waiting for staff and in need. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0145par0075	In order to speak, İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Mulecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0146par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I pay my respects to all of you. I, to tell you the truth, would like to talk to you about the Bureau of Competition associated with the Ministry of Commerce. As I'm going to talk about the Competition Association, I'd like to say something about the debate just now. I'm going to say that we need to be a little more cool, think about politics from a place where we're a little bit more accepting of each other. Now, sir, first of all, about the Competition Board, you know, the Competition Board, like many other institutions we call independent authorities, came out as products of the world after 1980, because the neoliberal order came out with an argument from the 1980s, that the state should no longer be a business manager and the market economy should be considered as the only option. Now, when we looked at these institutions, why were they independent? Why were they independent? It was because since the existence of the state as a manager was no longer necessary, then the state needed these boards as a control institution, so there was an understanding that the state would perform the control function through independent institutions. Now, in this sense, let's not lose sight of the distinction: these institutions were state institutions, not government institutions, so they were equipped with opportunities to act independently against the government. How was it done? For example, financially, even if it wasn't administrative, they were financially autonomous institutions, so they were able to make their own budgets by taking certain premiums in their business, in their control areas. Look, friends, now, I can't go into detail here, of course, but in 2011... this 2008 crisis, you know, it was worth us in 2009, and as far as I can tell, as I can see from 2009, governments in Turkey don't know exactly what they're going to do or how they're going to do it. When the Justice and Development Party evolved to a point like this, I think, they put all these independent boards, friends, under the supervision of ministers, with a KHK number 649. So these institutions are now government institutions, established as tools for a government that represents the entire community. Therefore, like the president of the Competition Foundation, other presidents, EPDK presidents, etc., have had to sit in the government as well as the ministers, and they can't do their own budgets. Now, from here, if you want to know the truth, I'm not criticizing the executives of all these institutions who are working, who are working on this, just as a matter of fact, these institutions are no longer independent. Now, so if we get out of here -- I'll bring it up a little bit more in a little bit -- for example, our friend from the GOOD PARTY actually got into the onion issue, so I don't want to go into too much detail. But we do know that it was August -- if I'm not mistaken -- that there was a preliminary investigation of the Onion Competitive Society that started the resin, and there was no judge in the preliminary investigation. So there's 3,000 brokers, traders, retailers in this market, which means there's no chance of compliant action within such a large number, so there's no chance of building a monopoly. Thus, there is no abuse or monopolistic practice in this market, where even the oldest man's share is around 3%." he said. In August 2018, the board published this. But finally -- and so did our friend from the GOOD PARTY -- recently, to tell you the truth, just last week -- when I read the news as a person who criticized the Competition Association on the commission, I thought, "Oh, my God, am I wrong? Am I really wrong? At a point where the government says there's a hoarder on the surface. No, there's no such thing. I really enjoyed the fact that he could say that, but last week, the Competition Association said: "This research was my old research. So I'm not saying anything current, but how satisfying was that explanation? As a matter of fact, he didn't hire me. Why? Because in a industry with 3,000 players, with 3% of the biggest man's share, in two months, there couldn't have been a monopoly within three months. So I expected the Competitiveness Association to say, "No, we've done this kind of research, things are going normal here, there's this thing called depoism. And so on and so on. But my friends, he couldn't say that because there was no way that an institution that was part of the government could have said that. Now, on another example, I'm going to tell you a few more things, which is a lot more important than the onion I just told you guys. It's so important that when I look at the data as a person who's dealt with these things, we're talking about a market that really needs to be interfered with, so we're talking about the media. Now, media is such a business that, friends, media is not a business like cement industry, but a monopoly in the media is not like a monopoly in the cement industry. Because monopolization in the cement sector increases the profits of the monopolyists, not only does monopolies in the media increase the profits of people and institutions who deal with the media, but they also have the chance to influence the democratic ideals of society, or they have the opportunity to influence their political ideas, so the media is very important. Now, let me tell you what I see when I look at the media. That's very rude, so I won't go into the details, which is very technical, but we see that there are seven companies in the newspaper industry. I don't know the details of these, as a matter of fact, of market share right now, but a market with seven companies is very unlikely to be a competitive market. Now, let's go to cable. There are two companies on cable. There are three companies on wireless. There are three companies on the satellite. Now, friends, these are very clearly signs that this sector needs to be interfered with. These are calculated by what we call the condensation rate, which I got from TÜİK. But if any competitive authority sees these numbers in the world, it immediately opens up a preliminary investigation. Is there a monopoly on this sector? But, as I just said, the Competition Agency can't do that because the Competition Agency has become part of the Justice and Development Party government. I'll tell you something else: once again, when I look at where these companies belong, who they belong to, these television companies, the media companies in general, the friends, the seven groups, most of these groups are builders, and they're all getting contracts from the government. Now, that's not gonna happen, guys. That's not gonna happen. Where's RTÜK, where's the Competition Agency? This place needs to be interfered with. So, like I said, I don't think the Competition Society can do this, but I want to tell you that there is such a danger. Because this, if you'll excuse me, folks, is a place that sums up where the Justice and Development Party comes from politically. I'll tell you this: Mr. President got rid of you, got rid of us, pulled himself up, like 16 advisors -- or whatever -- has appointed himself a minister, and with this media, he's running Turkey right now with very few people. This, frankly, is the image of a state that has become a party state. It's a very dangerous thing, and I've often tried to tell my friends in the Commission. Because, you'll see, in the future, there's this incredible way in the laws, so almost every issue is left to the President's authority, almost every issue is tried to be resolved within the state's framework. It's a party stateization process, it's very dangerous, and I'm going to go back to discussing the danger in a few sentences, and I'm going to explain it in a second. Friends, what you call this Congress -- we're 600 MPs now, we're one short, Leyla Trust, but let's say we're 600 -- is basically the mirror of society. So whatever we're doing here, they're potentially in society as well. Are we getting nervous here? We're getting nervous. Society's getting nervous, society's getting nervous, it's almost too close to conflict, and, yes, there are situations in society that are very close to conflict. Friends, on the other hand, we are Turkey, this Parliament represents Turkey, and I tell my master, with its nationalist and its nationalist, that I have put nationalism at my feet. I think with an understanding of the president who says, "I think he's a member of the community and I like it... we are radical democrats, friends, social democrats, but we are all people representing society and we are Turkey. Now, from a place like this, we can all have -- I don't know -- saints, symbols for all of us, ideas that we all care about, values that we all care about. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, a few more minutes, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0147par0093	I'll add a minute. Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0146par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. They're normal, they're normal as people who represent, as people of a country trying to move forward in democracy. We need to see each other as normal. It's so easy to fight each other because it's so easy to say "no" to something and "yes" to something, but it's hard to say "yes" and "no" at the same time, so to tolerate each other, to try to understand each other. Since I've been here -- I don't know if it's been six months, but I've been trying to explain every chance I get: what we call democracy is something about finding a common mind. I don't think it's appropriate for us to fight each other in any kind of interest here, if you want to know the truth. So as people who really represent Turkey, we all have different ideals, different ideals, of course, not possible, but if we come together from a place that accepts these differences, I think the Parliament studies will be healthier and the community will be healthier. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0148par0098	Thank you. It is now time for Istanbul MP Zeynel Özen. Here you go, Mr. Caress. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0149par0103	Dear President, esteemed MPs, the budget of the Dianetin was discussed here yesterday. Speaking on behalf of all groups, the speakers stopped the word Alevi from mentioning the problems of Alevi. I'm taking credit for it because 15 or 16 million people in this country are also taxing the Dianet. With these taxes, the only thing that diabetes does is assimilation for Alevis. All he does with fake associations, gray passport grandfathers, and courses is assimilation of Alevis. We Alevis say, "Do not give us any more shade. We don't expect service, but we don't approve of those taxes -- you'll hear it a lot -- we don't allow it. We call on the AKP (AKP): You are in power, and if you are approaching the faiths, then the plague of the use of our taxes is upon you. If you want to get rid of this plague, you'll know all the beliefs, you'll set up a system for each faith to form its own budget. On the other hand, this is my first time in Parliament. I really had dreams coming here, I had utopia, but I was disappointed to see what we did in the field and in Parliament in this process, because we're in the fields trying to protect people in democratic rights and demand from police violence, abuse, disproportionate power. On the other hand, look at the laws we passed in Parliament today. Our laws are all about raising money. Building peace, traffic law, pay-per-view, and when we get to today, this budget is a continuation of that. Dear MPs, now in democratic countries, education, health, housing, transport is the main duty of the state. But I see in this National Assembly that it is the duty of lawmakers to pursue jobs, to put others into work, or to put them in the dorm. Guys, this is called a torpedo. Torpedoes are a crime. If a member of the European Parliament deals with this, his political life will be over. As for the budget, this budget is not really an equitable budget based on the fair share of national income; it is a budget on the poverty of the rich, the poor, which is a budget on making the rules of fierce capitalism more violent, as it is today. There's also no job and employee security in this budget. We tell every dead worker it's his own fault, he didn't take his own safety. Here, like at the third airport. We blame the worker, but even with the death of so many workers in democratic countries, the state can't afford the compensation; I'll point out. So our economic order is based entirely on looting, robbery, more taxes than low income. All of our investments are investments based on profit, concrete, not human, not technology. As a result of this, the do-work-regulation system... this system is a very dangerous system, just like a domino. We built bridges today, and since the car didn't go through, we're paying for it from the government vault. We're building city hospitals, guaranteeing patients to city hospitals. We're doing everything we can to sell them to strangers, to sell them to strangers, no matter how much the Republic earns -- no matter how much it's broken today, no matter how much it doesn't exist. And what's the most dangerous? Spain, America, and England have tried this system, so do-and-do concrete. Because it's a system that's about 35 percent of real interest today, but it's an official 25 percent interest. Either way, one of these days, people who invest or buy a house on this loan won't be able to pay these loans. The banks will be in trouble, and when the banks are in trouble, the government will be in trouble. It's a continuation of everything, and it's so dangerous that today the biggest car park of its followers is in Turkey. The Canal Istanbul Project, for example, is a very dangerous project that maybe the AKP's friends don't want to do, but it has to, because what about that car park of theirs?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0150par0110	Make me mayor, I won't.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0149par0111	That car park is going to force them there. They'll do what's a disaster. On the other hand, the judiciary, the administration, the legislature has been monopolized. Friends, if justice is monopolisized, international capital doesn't see its own capital as safe, it doesn't come to our country.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0151par0114	Do you want it?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0149par0115	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0151par0116	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0149par0117	It's all about being a democratic, social law state. Peace and peace are only possible with a democratic Turkey. We can get mad at each other, we can do things to each other, but as long as you don't apply the principle of equal citizenship here, that law, and I repeat, you're going to listen to a lot of Alevi talks. Put your hand on your conscience, I call upon you. I salute the House.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0151par0120	The last word on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group is from İstanbul MP Huda Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0124	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the legal actuation. Starting with my words, I'd like to remember and remember our Congressman, Dear Leyla Güven, here on the 35th day of the hunger strike today. In addition, today, I honor and honor all our other female friends, all of our friends, all of our other female friends, who have recently entered the prison because of the approval of our former co-Chair. Dear friends, from time to time, there are serious crises through the HDP through the solution process, through those seeking peace. Let us understand, dear friends, that when a soldier in this country loses his life, we all get hurt; when a policeman loses his life, we all get hurt; a man, a life, is lost in this country. A teenager, a civilian, a child, an old woman, a mother, every one of us gets hurt when he dies. From bird to bug, flower to tree, to life, to man, each and every one of us is worth what makes this country a country, my friends. Maybe we have differences: we want peace, we want blood, we want no mother to cry, we want no pain, but maybe we think about the process in different ways. Someone says, "Sir, they must disappear altogether, this country will only be at peace like this." One in a different approach, the other in a different approach. Dear friends, we may have different ways to live with our different methods, solutions, peace, peace, peace, each one of us in our country, each of us in our country, in peace, each of us in our country, in peace, each of us in our own homes, living in peace, trusting each other, unafraid, predicting our future in peace, we may have different ways, we may have choices, but let us know, dear friends, that the people that you think are different, the people you think are different today, the people in Mr. Demirtaş, the Secret Süzyya, and every one of our female friends, the Leyla Trust, and every single one of our female friends, they love this country less than anyone else in this community. Each one of them's love and loyalty to this country, not less than any of you, but each of us, in this country, wants to breathe with each other, to live with each other in peace and security. It's about understanding this peace, understanding each other, empathy in the ways leading to this solution, and sharing in that solution. And for that to be patient, it takes empathy, so we have to push our conscience a little harder. No one dies, friends, no one. Let everyone feel equally safe in this country. Look, another 79-year-old academic was sentenced to prison just because he wanted peace, and even his medical report to the court was rejected by the court, Genay Gürsoy. What's that like? Look, guys, I've got a lot of notes at the halal accordion point, but before the time goes by, I'd like to point out that there's been operations on our HDP buildings in different cities that have hunger strikes or not, and Batman's been one of them. 19 women were taken into custody there and three or four of these 19 women had no headscarf at most. Look, friends, you AKP MPs...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0153par0131	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0154par0132	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0133	And it's all mostly...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0155par0134	You shouldn't have attached that to your headdress, Mr. Hüda Kaya.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0135	No, I'll tell you what, here's the thing...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0156par0136	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0137	Listen, you'll understand what this is about.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0157par0138	I don't want to hear about the guy in the tats, the guy without the helmet.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0139	No, no, you'll understand the relevance, Mr. President. Look, guys, most of these people are old moms, headscarfs. As long as he's in custody, the heads of each one of them have been pulled, taken, condemned to stand there with their heads open, friends.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0158par0141	Not at all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0142	Guys, how is that not relevant? Look, go ask your police officers.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0159par0143	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0158par0144	Don't let them back up the terror.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0145	What's the reason?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0158par0146	Don't let them back up the terror.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0147	What's the reason?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0158par0148	Terror.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0149	▪ You can execute each other with a headdress, you can strangle each other.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0160par0150	He was taken into custody making bread?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0151	That's the police's answer, fellas. Ask the lawyers, ask the officers there. No one here owes you a lie. We're here to...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0161par0152	Well, you're telling me.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0153	I, for one, and for my friends, no one...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0162par0154	The powers of the state are terror, he says.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0155	We're not talking about polemics without one-on-one witnesses. I'm not saying this so you can get mad like that. It's a fact in the AKP's power, my friends. I'm just saying, for the sake of a conscientious accounting, I'm not asking you to argue, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0163par0156	That's right...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0157	Well, there's all this... there's so much illegal happening that people are being prevented from living, their freedom is being blocked, their thinking is being blocked, their human life is being prevented, their breathing, their peace of mind, and those who say that are being accused of terrorism. In the Quran, in Islam, in humanity, in conscience, in all religions...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0164par0158	Don't mention the name of the Quran.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0159	...to live as a human being is the most indispensable value of all universal law and values, but when it's a criterion, it's banned; those who own it, those who fight for it, are locked up in dungeons. After that, you say: "Helal acreditation." Ya, you have made life unlawful, life has become uninhabitable, and all the unlawfuls have become more legitimate in your day.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0165par0161	There's no legitimacy.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0166par0162	Mr. Kaya, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0163	Now that he's become legitimate, look at the lie, the lie is forbidden, in all mankind, in all universal criteria, in all values, in all religions, lies are forbidden, but today the power is living on a complete lie.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0167par0164	Killing babies is also forbidden. It's also illegal to kill a military officer.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0165	It is forbidden for all persons to slay their own souls. It is forbidden for them to slaughter the infants. It is forbidden for the elderly to kill the children. It is forbidden for them to slaughter the trees.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0167par0166	Drop the gun, cut your ties to terrorism, bring peace to this country.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0152par0167	Look, guys, don't fight it, let's make a deal, let's figure it out. This country is the country of all of us, this country is indispensable to each of us, no one is going to go into space from here, each of us has to live and repeat: Let's find the way to love, let's find peace, let's find the way to conscience, let's meet in humanity, let's associate in humanity, let's make our country habitable. If the formula isn't found on this roof, the aliens won't come and impose this formula on us. We're responsible for this, guys. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0168par0170	Talks have been completed on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0169par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0168par0172	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0169par0173	I have a brief request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0168par0174	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0169par0177	Mr. President, Ms. Hüda has stated that the police have reached out to her headdress. We know that's definitely not true, and we deny it. Second, those who did the French Revolution said freedom, equality and brotherhood, all good words. The language speaks beautiful words, and the tongue is flexible. Those who expressed these three basic human concepts, eventually formed guillotines, combined three concepts in death. It's not just about saying nice words, it's about finally doing good deeds, doing acts of peace, resisting terrorism, dishonor, murder, that's the point. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0170par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0171par0182	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0170par0184	Thank you. Now, of course, to objectify something, you have to have no example, so it's easy to refuse. I'd never want to share it, nor would I find it elegant to share such personal things, but my family sent it to Silivri Prison in a cargo hold, a fine prayer, a small secret that was folded up and pocketed, but it didn't pass through security, dear friends, for the same reason as just now, in the attempted suicide attempt, to use the safe. Then they said, "There is another way, what are you going to do?" You're going to buy it at the canteen. Now, buying it from the canteen doesn't threaten security, but if you send it yourself, which is a very small thing to endure. It's governed by logic, prisons. If we understand why people react to certain things in prisons, we'll dominate a more human, of course, the understanding required by the state of law, or the responses that this understanding reveals will bring with it much greater differences. Then, after that -- I won't be long -- Mr. President -- they came in, and there are no 2 seccases in the room where three people are staying. We asked for his reason, and they said, "This is not the room, so why are there so many prayers here?" Guys, these are prison officials' logic. Now, I don't, of course, want to interpret this logic in general and get a generalization out of here, but when we transfer special cases, they don't get colored pens, they get flaged with colored pens or something. The General Director of Penalty and Investigations of this Assembly's Human Rights Commission has come to accept this. Now, when you go with that logic, we all have to accept, more or less, where this country is going. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0172par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0173par0189	I promise to tell the group's vice presidents after the speech. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 Friends, now, we have speeches on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. The first statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0174par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all. We're talking about the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Commerce. Friends, as you know, 42.6% of electricity production in Turkey is made of natural gas. And now the summer hour app has been extended, you know, we're going on and we're burning electricity. Why are they friends? Let me refer to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Dear friends, Mr. Treasury and Finance Minister, Cari has made a statement saying that inflation is falling at the open bottom, and we have turned off the attacks, and everything is fine. Everyone sees that Turkey is in serious economic straits, they know, the people on the street, the traffickers, everybody knows; two people insist on not being there; one is the President, and one is the Minister of Treasury and Finance. No, there's a crisis, and as they say, the worst is not behind us, we're going down to the worst, my dear friends. Now the current current current current deficit is due to the decline of growth, as you know, imports that are now luxury consumers, and the industry doesn't produce. That's why it's falling open, dear friends. And the fall of inflation isn't really because of inflation, it's not because of the police, it's because of the printing of the onion deposits, dear friends. It was caused by a serious recession in Turkey, therefore. There's no dead exchange rate, so they're traveling around the 5,35, talking about stagflation, not inflation. This is a serious crisis, my dear friends. It's not easy to deal with it, but I'll tell you this: There is no such crisis by ignoring it. By putting your head in the sand, by sweeping your problems under the carpet, you can't go anywhere. In order to do that, you need rationality, you need reality, you need to diagnose that you really need to be able to deal with the crisis. Here's the new economic program, the anti-inflation program, all of which are being swept under the carpet, my dear friends. There's no crisis. It's called, there's a crisis. And it's not just a crisis, it's a crisis related to the crisis of the world. It's a crisis that the global savings regime, the system we call "neoliberalism," puts on developing, developing countries like us. So there's not a lot of time, I don't want to go in there, but with the resection in America that started in 1999, then 9/11, there's a lot of liquidity to expand the economy here, interest down, and then in 2008, to avoid the crisis that occurred in Europe and America, you know, there's a lot of liquidity, there's a lot of interest going down. Depending on that, it's developed to include the economy of developing countries like us in their own economy: low interest, large money, cheap exchange. This is a trap, my dear friends, but it could have been an opportunity for Turkey. But your ambition and your lack of discretion have not turned this into an opportunity. What would be the opportunity, my dear friends? So you could really change your production with this cheap money. You know, the structural reforms, you know, let's put that aside, but you could change your production. What do you mean? With the money you're taking, you could move to an economy that actually generates currency, produces machines, produces high-tech technology, and then you could pay off your debts in a very comfortable way, and you didn't, I'm afraid. What happened instead? You've lost your ambition, you've fallen into a trap, you've invested this money in construction. Yeah, I mean, the road, the bridge, you did all that. But in fact, your famous phrase -- the citizen says: "They steal, but they do." It explains your economic model very clearly. These coins came in, these cheap coins, because these cheap coins didn't come in, and your economy, your industry, became dependent on the outside, and you buried the money in concrete, you liked the coupon plots, you shared it somehow; how did you share it, steal it or something? I don't know, the courts will decide how you share it, but I'll tell you guys: a coupon plot, something of the state, is being sold, park, garden, a lot of places are being built; the precedent is going from two to seven, up to eight, there's a lot of money being built, there's a lot of debt being made, there's a lot of money being done to the citizens, there's a lot of money being sold out of debt, and there's a lot of money being bought from outside. As a result, it's the crisis, my dear friends. Now that you're facing a payment problem, you're facing a serious resource problem. Mr. Secretary says: "There is no such thing, there is absolutely no source problem." Where is it? In an international tender at the end of October, we received $2 billion with 7 percent, and we received an offer of $5-6 billion. Look, earlier, we were getting money by 5 percent in a ten-year-old manner, and now we've got 7.3 percent in five years. Yesterday a tender was made, my dear friends -- that you can't go anywhere by deceiving people -- is borrowed from the inside, the bond is taken out, and it was said: "We found 2.8 billion dollars with $18,63. We looked it up, no one wrote it down; do you know who bought most of this bond? He got the unemployment fund, so the money's out, the funding's out, and now you're trying to get it out of everybody's savings. My dear friends, I don't want to give you a lot of numbers, but let me do an account: you're giving you 2002-2017 all the time, between 2002-2017, from 61 billion privatisations, direct foreign capital 190 billion, hot money close to 200 billion, Turkey's external debt came from 141.1 billion dollars to 460 billion dollars, $316 billion came from where you call it a mistake: the money from this year came from 45+18; you've collected $4.5 billion in taxes; the internal debt supply has come to $596 billion from 140 billion. So, what did you do? There's 535 billion TL investments, double roads, friends. By the way, as you sold the past today, you also discovered something called public-private partnership, and you sold the future of the nation, so you ate the taxes that our children would pay, and now you're investing 56 billion dollars in public-private partnerships, giving up $130 billion. That's not enough, my dear friends, this Minister thinks he's some kind of a financier or something, and now he's an Entourment Fund and... There's something else going to happen. Here's the thing: assets based on assets, my dear friends. Look, it's not the Minister's financial act, it's a very old trick, my dear friends. In the past, in the United States of America, the crisis in 2008 is based on these derivative papers. You know what they do? Who will the construction companies' debts in the banks be made paper and sold to? Bank of Development. Is that the Bank of Development and Investment? Bank of Development and Investment. Whose bank? The bank of the government, my dear friends. Look, you don't fight the crisis, there's nothing like this in the economic program or in this budget, there's a fight against the crisis. You're trying to save the construction industry that's keeping you alive, that's keeping you in power, and you're trying to turn the Bank of Province into a conglomerate to save the sinking construction industry, our dear friends. That's what you do, and there's really no end to it, my dear friends. This business is important. From now on, by means of the Entity Fund, perhaps you'll turn all the world's assets into paper, sell them, sell them to someone else, sell them to someone else, and that's the derivative. And toxic paper... you've been selling bankrupt bank credits since you first stepped in, toxic paper. There's no way out of here, you have to accept the truth. My dear friends, I'd like to say a few words about the discussion that was just held when I ended my words. My dear friends, look, what is the republic's greatest gain to us? Equal citizenship. Equal citizenship means civilization, as well as the basis of my dear friends, the struggle for civilization, is equal citizenship. We are different because some are born, some are later acquired. We have different identities, different customs, beliefs, orientations, lifestyles. These, they're all available.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0175par0253	Mr. Bachelor, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0174par0254	See, non-civilized people fight and fight over these identity breakups and spend all their energy. Today, unfortunately, the world has again struggled with these uncivilized identities, the differences. This is, in fact, something about neoliberal populism. As a result, the crises I just described, the problems, are covered up. There's equal citizenship in civilization, but it's equal citizenship that counts. No matter what the difference is, no matter where we belong, no matter who we are, no matter what our faith is, we are equal citizens of this country. Equal citizenship means we have homework, we have rights. Because of our differences, no one can ever, ever ignore our rights. And those differences don't give us the right to do these assignments, my dear friends. Please, I mean, please, let's take care of this. We live in 2018 Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0175par0257	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0176par0260	Mr. President, I'd like to request a brief word, if that's all right. Mr. President, dear friends, we always express ourselves. This bench has a moon, it has manners. They're stealing, but they're doing it. They're stealing, but how do they share? This language is not the right language. I think we need to be more sensitive. All members of the AK PARTY group are people who know the lawful and the unlawful. We reject such statements. If there is, I believe the clerk has a document, information, that he must do as he pleases.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0175par0262	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0177par0263	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0175par0264	Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0177par0265	Can I talk to you for a minute?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0178par0266	You just finished, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0175par0267	Just say the word.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0177par0268	I mean, he said something about me slandering something that wasn't there for them. I'm misunderstood, it's not true. I didn't say that, I said something else. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0179par0269	To make amends, according to 60...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0175par0270	Okay, well, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0177par0272	My dear friends, they steal, but they do. The word is not a word I invented, but a word spoken on the street. I tried to explain it with a metaphor, a model. You're doing it, you're doing it, but there's a lot of rumors in the world, and that's why I told you, but I didn't mean anyone here, not one person at a time. I'm making a system critique with this, my dear friends, a system critique. Cheap money comes in, collects, sinks into concrete. Let's not say stealing, let's call it something else. A piece of land from a two-similar farmland, a plot of land, is set up with 11 precedents from two precedents, where the runt is shared. I mean, what's-his-name, they're stealing the word. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0180par0274	If he thinks the approach he calls a street mouth is appropriate, Mr. President. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0181par0313	The second statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group belongs to Burdur MP Mehmet Göker. Here you are, Mr. Göker. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0182par0317	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if we start from where we left off, Mr. Group Vice President, but they're working. They want information, documents; you can find this in the Court reports, but for example, there's a Kayseri bridge that's been built for three years that the Court hasn't been able to find, but there's no bridge in the funds, but the bridge is missing. If you want information, documents, if you want to appear -- you can't see what's being done, but -- there's a bridge called Iconia Metropolitan. There's a bridge he said I did. The Court couldn't find it either. So where did these bridges go? So -- since it's in the census reports -- there's a money that's been spent there, as a bridge, the road back to the citizen as water. Our teacher must have told the truth. Mr. Eren Erdem, our last-term MP, was arrested last June; he has been under arrest and in isolation for 177 days. With no possibility of escape or suspicion, no evidence, and the secret witness accepts the plot, while our friend's arrest continues. We don't know why, what's his motive, guys. I would like to address my beloved Eren Erdem. In a verse of Pir Sultan Abdal. Go, Hizir Pasha, You'll break your wheel too. The King in whom thou trustest, On the day when it will be overturned. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's been a Gini coefficient in the budget for two days. What's the Gini coefficient? As we approach zero, the equivalence of income distribution is an assessment of the inequality of income distribution as we approach one. But in this assessment, you managed to get the gin out of the bottle. Why did you do it? The Gini coefficient was given last year as 0.405 in Turkey in 2017 -- as the minister puts it -- and you show it as a success. However, Erzurum, Erzincan, Bayburt Like I said, you managed to get a genie out of here pretty well.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0183par0326	Way to go!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0182par0327	Almost all the talks at the Department of Energy were made just ahead of me. But you've got a winter hour app, which you don't insist on. Reports are being made about it, but you continue to insist. The average annual increase between 2013 and 2016 was 9 billion kilowatts per hour, while in 2017, it suddenly rose to 20 billion kilowatts. The reason is... it's your decision. What are you guys doing now? You throw the morning prayer away for two hours, and you make the people perform it at seven. Last time we said that, you're hosting an event called Happy Birthday Week. It's an application. Come and give it up. At least, if you're doing the satire according to the calendar, come back 11 days. We said, "You didn't listen, but when you were in trouble, you removed it." Now you have made the morning prayer two hours away. That's when it will happen, and we'll have Ramadan ahead of us, and you'll go to a five-hour reduction in fasts, and it'll be for the benefit of the citizen.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0184par0330	Don't make fun of me, don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0182par0331	You're passing through with national values and generality.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0184par0332	Do not mock our beliefs. It doesn't suit you. It doesn't suit you. Fasting is not a thing to be mocked at, nor is prayer a thing to be mocked at. And you mock at prayer, and you mock at fasting. It doesn't suit you. It's a shame.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0182par0333	In wintertime practice, especially the economic size aside, children's psychology is important in this sense. Kids go to school at dawn, so to speak, like they're going to a dawn operation. Give it up as soon as you can. The other thing is that the distribution costs on the electric bills are high, the distribution costs here. Look, the price of electricity from 53 lira to 50 cents is up to about 100 liras in distribution and consumption. And then there's the cost of reading. Guys, I live in a 28-story apartment, there's about 56 apartments, it's read for $10 per apartment, but it's read for ten minutes. It would be in the best interest of this nation if you fell. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0185par0338	Dear friends, now it's time for İzmir MP Tacettin Bayır. Here you go, Mr. Ridge. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0186par0342	Mr. President, the Turkish Economics Agency, founded in 1929 at the suggestion of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, ordered an annual celebration of Indian Property Week between December 12th and December 18th, to encourage and encourage the use of domestic goods. We've all seen the economy die through the AKP governments where we've stopped domestic production and experienced imported craziness. Imported property madness has skyrocketed, and unemployment has continued to rise parallel to it. If we don't turn domestic production and consumption into a state policy, we can't eliminate the dangers that are waiting for us. The use of domestic goods is the value of a republic. A society that doesn't produce, that doesn't care about domestic property, becomes a exploited society. Seeing this painful danger, I invite you to revitalize domestic production, own, produce, and protect the manufacturer, as it was in the early years when the republic was founded. It must not be forgotten that 869 barcodes of every domestic property is a job for an unemployed person. Local Property Week is to be remembered and kept alive. I think the Ministry of National Education should be more sensitive to understanding the importance of Indian Property Week. Instead of calling the citizen a belt, I think we should start at the palace, I'd like to tighten the belt, and I'd like to send the piggy bank I brought to the person in the palace as a gift to Mr. Vice President. Let's start there, belt-squeezing, from there, saving from the palace. (CHEERING) In our childhood savings were taught by these piggy banks.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0187par0345	Don't take the money from the Business Bank, save money.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0186par0346	If I've grown up to be a child of a tobacco rancher family and become an industrialist and businessman, it's thanks to this piggy bank that I learned at Tussel Week.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0187par0347	Don't take the money from the Business Bank, save it as CHP.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0186par0348	You can't answer me from where you're sitting. You can't afford it. I'm sending this piggy bank to Mr. President, and I'm saying, stop buying planes, stop buying cars, stop building palaces, save some money, save money. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The way to boost countries' economic development and social prosperity is through global competitiveness. The key determinant of competitiveness is producing information and developing technology, producing innovative products that are compatible with global competition, and adding high value. As far as we're concerned, electricity is derived from natural gas, the most expensive resource. Local gas sources' licenses are unfortunately handed over to foreigners. Natural gas is imported, the most expensive. It's important to remember that we depend on outer energy, as we do on many things. The production of electricity, which is sought to be obtained with the most expensive imported natural gas, has also been privatised and is thus made unable to pay the citizen's bill by adding such additions as missing electricity, such as reading counters to already high costs. The price of electricity and natural gas has been released and has been opened to all kinds of fluctuations and shocks. Of course, there's no way to get a line out of this much wrong. Therefore, the citizen cannot pay the electricity bill. Look, one of the biggest problems in the industry is that energy input prices are high. The industrialist is unable to export the last 40 per cent of the electricity he's paid, and has become uncompetitive in exports. The most natural example of this is from the marble manufacturers in Burdur. In the name of missing illegal electricity over the past four years, add additions to the industry's bills, let's propose, let's say you invest. Less unemployment, less unemployment. Document this in recent investments, and we will receive half of the missing fugitive price. Say, "Let's open new factories for the unemployed." Let's do this, let's do this together. At this point, I don't think for myself that AKP is fighting enough electricity on the run because it's an understanding that it adds the money it can't collect from missing illegal electricity to the honest, honest citizen who is somehow paying the bill. Honey, it's not a big deal. It's the missing electrical power. Let's not follow the one who uses illegal electricity. It's a false understanding, it's a motive. That money needs to be taken from the missing fugitive. It's totally unacceptable to be taken from decent people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0188par0358	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0186par0359	In this sense, people don't have politics in spite of the public. True energy policies can only take place in the order in which the producers have the voice and authority to govern. Finally, this budget gives nothing to the poor, the farmer, the worker, the officer, the student, the pensioner, the manufacturer, the shopkeeper. This budget is the palace budget. We also ignore this budget that ignores the people, and that is why we call it no.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0189par0362	Mr. President, let me make a brief statement.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0190par0363	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0189par0366	Mr. President, thank you. It's not what Mr. Hatti said, on the contrary, this budget is a total savings budget, Mr. President. This savings budget never has a savings side, not about farmers, pensioners, civil servants, workers, but about general arrangements. Our people will see it in 2019 anyway. It's just like he said, the savings budget. Other than that, Mr. orator, we are not going to take flights. He tried to repeat the so-called joke every day. Look, Mr. President, it's not a plane that's bought, it's not right to pretend it's our President's. That plane isn't the President's...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0191par0370	Who?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0189par0371	...is the plane of the President's office. Let them work hard, let them win. They can return the plane, sell it, use it if they want.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0191par0373	Aren't you ashamed to lie? Don't lie to these people!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0189par0374	Work and you can have it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0192par0377	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0193par0378	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0192par0379	Just for the record, the reputation of the Republic of Turkey, how the President is honored, what plane he is on, what plane he's on, and if it's equivalent to this, the power of the Republic of Turkey will buy its own president a plane, an automobile, whatever it takes, but the Republic of Turkey will not need any state. If he's been deprived today and this is acceptable to them, it's not the reputation of the Republic of Turkey, it's his dishonor. For the record.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0194par0380	I just answered, not the President's. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0195par0419	Osmaniye MP Baha Celebrity is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Celebrity.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0196par0422	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2019. I salute your Supreme Court. Today, I'd like to talk a little bit about energy policies that the current political power has followed from 2003 to today. First of all, let us remember what EC PARTY's criticism of energy was. They promised that electricity, natural gas, oil and so forth fuels are very expensive, that there are corruption in their production and imports, that there are drugs against the public in the natural gas deals, that privatisations with the do-and-do model are made for fake and corruption, that the public bills are due to inflating and corruption, and that energy prices are high and cannot be produced at these prices, and that they will prevent corruption and energy prices will be reduced. Let's continue by looking together at what happened in the energy sector during the accession process to the European Union. Having come to power, this government, which has been suspicious for some time in the process of entering the European Union, has begun to make an intense effort to join the European Union. In the process of intense effort to enter the European Union, numerous changes have been made to adapt all energy legislation to European Union legislation and to establish a liberal energy market. Energy privatisations ordered by European Union legislation have been accelerated. There's been a major outside and internal access to the sector. They convinced local and foreign investors of the European Union's legislation. Many fellow businessmen were given an important part of their energy privatisation. In the face of irregularities during privatisations, no one has been heard from except the engineering rooms and the Republican People's Party. Well, as we look at the developments in 2009 and later, the problem with supply security in energy, the lack of energy for consumption, is that the European Union's energy acquish has been gradually given up. Acquisition guaranteed tenders have been rebooted, one of the reasons why the former Energy Ministers were sent to the Supreme Court. If we want to set an example of these tenders, we can show them the procurement guaranteed wind plant and the tenders for solar plants. These tenders were given to certain groups known to the public. Let's get to today. In January 2008, electricity in the tradehouse was $11.85, and today it was 54.11 cents, so 458 per cent increase. In January 2008, the price of electricity sales, which was 9.73 cents in the industry, is 44.75 cents today, up 459 per cent. At the same time, the electricity sale price, which was 10.23 cents, was 45.30 cents today, so a 443% increase has come. These are values other than taxes and funds. For example, when taxes and funds are added in the dwelling, the price reaches 55,266 cents. So, I ask you, in ten years, have our revenues increased by 460 percent? The answer is, of course, no. Hundreds of businesses that can't pay their electricity debt have shut down, and our citizens who can't pay their electricity debt are in foreclosure. Official supply companies are unable to pay the money in time for public power. The failure of the expected increase in consumption has affected the free production companies that build the production plant, making it unable to pay the loans they receive for investment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can I wrap this up?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0197par0430	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0196par0431	First of all, it has to be known that both domestic and foreign investors demand trust from the administration. Our executives confuse trust with security. In order for the investor to make an investment decision, it is important to determine whether the country's investment climate is a decent, fair, and reliable environment for democracy. If this climate can't be achieved, you can't convince the investor, even if you offer financial solutions to the investor, such as a buy-in guarantee. It would be helpful to put public-private partnership on the agenda for large projects instead of uncertain models. For domestic and renewable energy investments to be made, a new incentive must be developed, considering the conditions of the day. As a result, the current political power at first achieved no goal. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0198par0435	It's up to Mersin's MP, alpay Antmen. Here you go, Mr. Antmen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0199par0439	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers about the Nuclear Organization. On July 9, 2018, I would like to talk to you about this institution, which was established with the provisions of Law 702. But I have come across the fact that this institution, which was founded six months ago, did not exist. And when we look at who this institution is, who it is, who it is, and who its manager is, I've seen that even though it's been six months, there are no presidents or members assigned here, so this institution that we're going to give the budget to doesn't really exist right now. Dear lawmakers, the budget of this institution, which does not even have executives, is 95 trillion liras in old money. Well, let me be clear, you want these 95 trillions to give the allies a position and position again. Let's get to the bottom of this. I'm telling you, it's a corner from heaven, like Mersin and Sinop, and you want to build nuclear plants that are native and non-national. Let's talk about Mersin Akkuyu. Why do you want to turn Mersin into hell? I told the People's Office members at the hearing who rejected the report -- and I want to ask our dear AK PARTY friends who wanted to build a nuclear power plant here: Let's give you a summer home there, where you can live with your children, your grandchildren, in those paradise lands. You can't, can you? No, no, no, no, because if the Mersin Akkuyu nuclear power plant is built, it'll be a place that no longer exists because of you. You don't care if there's going to be no more tourism in Mersin, you don't care if there's going to be no more agriculture in Mersin. You don't care if there's going to be a massacre in Mersin, do you? Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0200par0444	People's health will go, people's health.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0199par0445	Yeah, yeah. Congressmans, it would be cheaper and safer to generate electricity with solar and wind power instead of building nuclear plants. Those who cannot appoint executives to the Nuclear Organization want to build a nuclear power plant for Mersin and Sinop Τ at the cost of destroying nature. I'd like to express your appreciation for what a nuclear power plant is, how it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be like, a bomb thrown into the country. May God protect us from every atom of yours. Amen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, the budget means all the revenues and expenses the state, an organisation, a family or anyone has designed for a fixed period of time in the future. The budget here is the budget of a government, not of a people, but of a family, the people who live in the palace. If there are warnings on the flammable materials, keep them away from the fire. I think we should write, "Keep them away from power, so that there will be no more fires in every house." Members of parliament, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our chairman, always says: "There are two July 15ths; one is on the court, one is on the 15th of July. There are two budgets, one is on the court and the other on the people's budget. We're talking about the budget of a people who live under the poverty of 20 million, 7 million people who live under the age of hunger. This budget is not the budget of the nation, but of those who blaspheme and receive a tender from the palace. (HPP) This budget is the budget of those who apply IMF sanctions to citizens without the IMF. This budget is not the budget of pensioners, workers, teachers, officers, industrialists, tradesmen, women, young people, and most importantly children, children. (HPP) This budget is the budget of those who build palaces on earth and in heaven, dragon fruit eaters, loan sharks, and lenders.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0201par0451	Get out of here, get out of here.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0199par0452	Get out of here! The AK PARTY promised this people paradise in 2012, but those who promised it, thanks to you, with your smile, made the country hell today, and I'm laughing at you from here. More than 700 billion dollars in the budget will be taken from taxes, people, and then you'll give it to the British lenders. Congressmans, this budget is a poor budget for the palace and for the support of the citizens. Retired pensioners hang out with Mr. President, who should actually retire. This budget is the budget of the bloody Ensar that says, "There's nothing wrong with the budget of the child who stops child abuse." Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror carried the ships off the land, someone's children took their ship from the palace.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0202par0457	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0199par0458	Thank you, Mr. President. Half of this budget, or more than $440 billion, will be taken from women, but the top of the state doesn't even see the man and the woman as equal. Dear lawmakers, just before the budget, we dealt with other things, the law that telecom companies wanted, that we would solve the problems of pensioners, workers, civil servants, and many other problems. You've built a paradise in palaces, with airplanes, with dragon fruit. The price of this paradise was the hell of unemployment and poverty created in the households. Let's make a public budget instead of a palace budget. Let's work for the public instead of the palace. Let us serve not the palace, but the people, twenty-four days, seven days, and Hakk. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0203par0463	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0204par0464	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0205par0465	Mr. President, every time... friends will talk.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0203par0468	Mr. President, he used to speak in groups, and now that it's every five minutes, we have to answer from all sides.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0205par0469	Friends, let's have a word.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0203par0470	Thanks. Mr. President, we can tolerate a lot of criticism. There were a lot of expressions that we disagreed with, even pushed the boundaries. We're trying to understand them in democratic culture. But what we don't understand is that there are two July 15ths. There's one July 15th. This nation knows what it is, but there are two of them, like the speaker, from July 15th. If we're going to use the expression, one of them is the people who go out in the square and fight to the death with their nation, stand up, stand up straight, and watch July 15th drinking tea in front of the slippers television. That's not true, Mr. President. There's only one in the spirit of July 15th.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0206par0473	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go. Friends, we're listening to Mr. Ozkovic, your Deputy Director of the Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0207par0476	Sir, I can't get a word out of him because of his cover-up, because he's hiding the position he's picking on. But I'll tell you this: if he has any doubts as to who made him do July 15th, put the republic's generals in Silivri, and put them in charge, ask him about the account.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0208par0478	Mr. President, this discussion is way behind us. The courts are doing their duty, the House did its duty last semester, et cetera. But I would like to say that the greatest will to stop July 15th is the leadership of Erdogan along with the unity of this nation. No, sir, on the 15th of July, it wasn't like that. While we were doing this in the squares on July 15th, before that, during the July 15th, in the crisis of the MIT, in closing their newspaper, in closing their banks, in closing the classrooms, the group who made this claim was always there for them. When this organization, every congregation, every organization, every foundation, worked on the legal ground, we did what was done to every congregation, every foundation, every foundation, but when this organization began to do more than open schools to this community, to open a classroom, we tried to make it known. But from that moment on, they'll have to deal with it. They can't change that with such claims, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0207par0481	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0209par0482	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0207par0483	I want words according to 69. He directly accused our party of aiding and abetting the Fetullahist terrorist organization. I want to talk about bullying, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0210par0484	I didn't.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0211par0485	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0212par0486	Why do you say that? Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let's not cause any more bullying, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0213par0492	Yes, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, friends, the sun doesn't roll with clay. The Republican People's Party is the founding political party of the Republic of Turkey for democracy, for freedom. What you say doesn't stick to the sun, it doesn't stick to the Republican People's Party, it's the first. The second is this day when it's called the Fetullahist terrorist organization. If you're even arresting the investor of $1 in Asia, ask him to account for whoever cut the ribbon of Asia -- I mean President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and your ministers. (Applause from CHP) Bank in Asia, the Fetullahist terrorist organization is taking a profit with its unions -- with the money of our nation -- and if it's being organised, ask the President, the Prime Minister. We missed you so much, Hajji, don't stay in the Americas, come to Turkey. Whoever President Recep Tayyip Erdogan calls to is the head of the Fetollah terrorist organization. I stand here behind him, behind this prosecutor, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who says, "I stand behind him, who has condemned tens, thousands of people to death and imprisonment by creating Ergenekon and Sledgehammer events in Silivri." If you're going to accuse people, ask not the oppressed and the innocent, but those who hold the generals of the republic in Silivri, even though it is not their fault, and bring the Fetullahist generals to us and appoint the brother of the Fetullahite general as ambassador. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0214par0497	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0215par0498	Mr. Turan, no more teasing.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0214par0499	Without teasing, I want promises.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0215par0500	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let there be an end to this argument alone.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0214par0504	Mr. President, we're discussing the budget, and I'm not interested in making any polymics, but in discussing a good budget, some friends, I guess, I'll put on a show, and I'll leave. They say some old sentences in style, they stir up and leave. If that happens, there won't be a budget meeting anyway. It ended at twelve last night. So we, the AK PARTY, are also in charge of being a ruling party, we take it from below, we're being discreet, we're trying to manage it, we're pushing our democratic discipline, just so we don't pick on it. But, dear friends, if you must accuse us, I would like to say that there is no need to go further, that during the operation against the president of the MIT, the AK PARTY group was assembled, that it was able to pass one item until 7 a.m., in one matter overnight, only to prevent it from entering MIT. But the CHP Group at the time was here until morning as the lawyer of the CHP. Dear friends, we have to see this. See, the bank was closed, you were there; you were there; you were there; you were there; you were there; you were there; you were there; and moreover, I am ashamed of the alliance with Birgül Ayman Güler, your deputy at the time. I'm saying, I hope you didn't do it on purpose, but you have to face it. Face it, stand where Ataturk's party must stand. No MIT, no classroom, no bank, no December 17th, now you're going to accuse us! It's been here for 40 years. Who made the funeral of CHP's Secretary-General Kasym Gülek? He made me do it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0216par0505	Which school did you graduate from?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0214par0506	He met with Ozal, he met with Demirel, he met with Cirler, he infiltrated every party.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0216par0507	What school did you graduate from, what school? Tell me about the school you graduated from!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0214par0508	But we ruined it, we destroyed it, we fought it. So I say, we've done this confrontation, you do it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0216par0509	Did you go to the Milky Way or not? Tell me!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0214par0510	There's nothing to be done by shouting.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0216par0512	What school did you go to? Tell me!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0214par0513	Your own deputy says I'm ashamed. Shame on you! I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0217par0516	Let's see you face it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0218par0517	Which school? Which school did you graduate from? Tell me! You studied at Fethullah's school, at your school!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0219par0518	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0220par0519	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0219par0520	Sir, I don't want to make it any longer. Dear Vice President of the group...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0220par0522	Guys, I can't hear you, please...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0219par0523	The esteemed group vice president spoke of the president of the MIT when he said his words. If this is the person he was talking about, then he should have gone that day, and he should go today. If the president is learning from his brother-in-law -- who has not reported the coup -- this MIT president shouldn't be here for a minute. If Turkey destroys its dignity in the Grand National Assembly and gives its account to US senators instead of here, then the president of the MIT must go. I don't know if you know the president of the MIT. He goes to America, he answers. If he says so, so should the President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0221par0525	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0220par0526	Mr. Turan, if you want me to go, you go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0221par0527	He sent everyone, Mr. Engin. Mr. President, it's not about who the president of MIT is. The point is that when the head of the MIT -- no matter who -- can't operate on the president, we fought here until morning, they left us alone, I'm trying to tell him that. Not Mr. Hakan, Mr. Engin; it's an important institution of the state. On the way to that institution, the AK PARTI Group stood up to the L.A.P.T. Group, where have you been? That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0220par0530	Mr. Engin, don't mix this up, it's intel!
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0222par0531	Sir...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0220par0532	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0222par0533	I'm stopping for the record again. I think he's misunderstanding the upright posture; the upright posture is the same as I am, it can't be stood upright, sir, let him solve it himself first. Second: This terrorist group will stage a coup and prepare for the terrorist organization they placed in the 7th position of the Security and Intelligence Commission. Let the president of MIT answer here. When we say, it is the AKP Group that unanimously prevents the president of MIT from coming here, but when the same AKP Group goes to the U.S. Senate, it doesn't speak at all; this is their true face.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0223par0536	Omar Steel responded to that, Mr. President. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0224par0575	In turn, Balıkesir MP Fikret Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0225par0577	Mr. President, according to 69, there's been a bullying by Mr. Vice President saying, "Don't do the show."
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0226par0578	I said, Mr. President, that's what happened yesterday.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0225par0579	I was here, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0227par0580	Mr. Antmen, your group vice president has spoken. He answered all the taunts. There was no pronunciation about your person, so I followed it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0225par0581	No, he did the show...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0227par0582	Some of the MPs have said,,,,,,,,,,,,.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0225par0583	I was the last speaker.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0228par0584	Congressman, I said it ended yesterday at twelve.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0227par0585	There's been controversy since yesterday. He didn't mention your person. Mr. Hawk, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0229par0587	I was with you yesterday, sir. I was sitting over there.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0230par0588	No, I'm not talking to you, I'm saying it grew yesterday.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0229par0589	Are you saying you don't mean me?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0230par0590	No, I didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0229par0591	Okay.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0231par0592	I don't think there's a Mr. Hawk. I'll call the next speaker. But when I announce it, I mean, how many times do we have to say it? Please...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0232par0593	Sir, there's a debate going on.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0231par0594	But we took care of it. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0233par0598	Thank you, thank you. Mr. President, I've been promised the National Bor Research Institute under the Central Management Budget Act of 2019. I salute your high council. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the only minerals in the world that Turkey can have a say in the mines it has, in terms of its reserve size and production capacity. Our country is rich in boron, we're almost on the sea of boron. We have 73 percent of the world's reserves, we supply 60 percent of the world's raw materials through the Mine. About 95 percent of the boron-based products are also used to import, export, export from our country. Despite such large reserves and market share, unfortunately, we are able to obtain 20 percent of the total debt revenues in the world. It's a big contradiction, of course. The basis of this contradiction is that Turkey exports raw material without processing the pipe. Besides, the boron market is an oligopol market in the world, a market with less buyers and less buyers. In the current situation, Turkey is a country that provides cheap boron to developed countries and therefore exports the added value from abroad. Turkey has left its added value in exporting raw borons to developed countries such as the United States. While the size of the reserves that countries have in their subterranean economic development is of course important, it is how you evaluate your natural resources and offer them to the service of the economy. That's where the mission of the National Bor Research Institute begins. Basically, this institute is a research, development and production development agency. It is the duty of this institute, the institution, to make research on the Boron, to develop production technologies, to make sure that the world markets are exported not as raw materials, but as high, half priced, and well-funded, to contribute to the level of revenue that we have acquired from the boron, which is to bring Turkey to the top of the world's boron market. It's an institute founded in 2003, so it has 15 years of history. When we look at what you've done for this purpose over the past 15 years, we can't say that we've gotten too far. We've got really just the boron-infused Etimatic detergent that the E.T.E. mine produced, and its share in the detergent market is only 1.5 percent. Of course, it's not right to just connect this negative painting of our country with the institution about the boron. It's also how the government and the Ministry look at the bora. In this context, we can tell from the Ministry's budget presentation how much the ministry cares about the bora. See, in this budget presentation of the Ministry, there are only two lines about the boron, which mentions that our raw market share has risen from 36 per cent in 2005 to 59 per cent in 2018, to another point of view, the rate of exploitation of our boron mines has increased. Once again, when we look at the Court's audit report of the National Institute of Bor Research, and look at the rates of investment spending in 2016 and 2017, it's very low. 28 per cent in 2016, 41 per cent in 2017. So what you're saying to the Institute as the Ministry is: take this 100 lira with this. In 2016, he only spends $28 on research, 41 lira in 2017. So as a result, the Court report of the National Bor Research Institute has a very low percentage of these investments. These rates show that this institution has not worked hard enough, it's thrown away, it's performed far below its capacity, and they've failed. Turkey, which is unopposed in the world's boron market with the size of the reserve, will lead the world on board if it meets the size of this reserve with technology, and the fate of our country will change. In short, the future of our Turkey depends on our investments. A variety of visions are sometimes expressed in our country, and I would like to share with you a vision of a future with the boron in this context. If we want to be the leading country in the future, we have to seriously focus on research development and put real projects in the middle. We can start with the bordan-organized industrial area that we're going to build in Balıkesir, a boron valley, just like a Silicon valley. Balıkesir Bigadic is a region of Turkey's largest boron beds. We blow pipes, grind them, put them in bags, export them abroad. But with the chain of factories we're going to build, the pipe isn't raw material... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I just need 30 seconds, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0234par0608	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0233par0609	The revenue of our country will increase exponentially if we process the pipe and add it to a high value of goods or half price and export it abroad, which will reflect in a positive way for future generations. But as we look at the current situation, the Bor Institute has been in power for fifteen years, the AKP has been in power for sixteen years, and we are still extracting the pipe from the ground in Turkey. Turkey is renegotiating that its future is on board, ending my words, wishing that the budget of 2019 would be good for our country, for our nation, for all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0235par0613	Thank you. It's at Vecdi Gündüğdu of the 40s. Here you go, Mr. Gündüz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0236par0618	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party group regarding the energy ministry's budget. The budget we're talking about is the budget of those who have been in power for 16 years, who have no excuses, no complaints. AKP's energy policies are policies that are far away from the social state, which look out for the interests of allies and international capital, without environmental sensitivity. The establishment of more plants than necessary by AKP governments has unfortunately opened the scissors between power-producing boards. While we need 50,000 megawatts, while our power is up to 90 thousand megawatts, it is also the biggest mistake to still be licensed to coal plants. Advanced countries create farmland for healthy food and food independence, while you put concrete on land that's been farmed for thousands of years, and as if it wasn't enough, you build thermal plants. It is a crime to try to build a coaled thermal plant on the Centipede Plain, which covers 30 per cent of the fruits, vegetables, and animal production of our centipede. In the last 15 years, you have destroyed 25,000 hectares of forest in Thrace. Remember, the energy sector doesn't need a new plant today, but Turkey needs the land that produces 1 gram of wheat as it is now. To transport Russian natural gas to Europe, you also slaughtered the most beautiful forests of the coastal village. The most important habitats in Europe are forbidden to pick flowers from the Bulgarian side of Istraca -- when we look at Europe -- where you are now busy slaughtering forests. As if the attacks on the paradise corner of Longoz Forests in Pinikada, the only one in Europe and Asia, are not enough, you are now helping the region with energy fields -- after the thermal and nuclear plant. Those who called it Indian and cheap energy, handed over the nuclear power plant to the Russians in Akkuyu, our paradise corner, and made the guarantee of energy purchase with dollars, and forced the nation to pay three times the price today and use energy. You spread natural gas all over the country, investing in the nation, and then the gas was shut down in the houses because you started giving away free coals. The harmful materials of coal poisoned the citizen, and then the poisoned citizen paid millions of liras, and had to pay medical expenses. If you think about the poor guy, raise his profits, lower the price of the gas he uses. You said, "Let's get our own coals out, let's go back to the native. Let's stop producing; you couldn't even take care of our worker, our miner's life, and when we looked at the 16 years of AKP power, we lost 1,693 miners. Members of lawmakers, pensioners, tradesmen, farmers, peasants, and farmers say, "What is in the budget for us?" Currently, the budget has a 26 per cent increase in the President's salary. Right now, the budget has increased the court's reign by 233%. Those who, when you look at the palace and its surrounding kingdom, its glory, its luxurious life, its one-man regime, say yes to this budget. Those who found $3.5 million in money for Syrians saw a lot of $7 billion in pensioners. Is there 3600 additional indicators in the budget for the teacher, nurse, religious officer, police that you promised before the election? No. Any workers? No. Officers, shopkeepers, farmers? I don't have that either. Is there a minimum wage that makes your bread and butter? I don't have that either. Well, minimum wage is $1,603. The hunger limit is $1.919 in Turkey. He has to borrow 316 lira each month so he doesn't have to starve for minimum wage. Who is responsible for poverty, corruption, shamelessness? Who's in charge of the debt-damaged companies that declare concordato every day? You're responsible, the AKP governments who've been in charge for 16 years. You've finished the meat, you've finished the chicken, you've finished the fish, you've finished the egg, you've finished the beets, you've finished the lentils, you've finished everything; you've finished the farmer, you've finished the worker, you've finished the fresh air of Turkey; and when we ask you, who did it? Look, guys, when we look here, the farmer's out of business, the clerk's out of business, and when we look here, all the layers of society are damaged.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0237par0628	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0236par0629	As I finish my words, I would like to say that I am here, elected by the votes of my people, and am a member of parliament. I'm a laborer, I'm the master of the nation, I'm a peasant, I'm the basic stone of the state, I'm the tradesman of the mine, the best friend of the market, I'm retired for 40 years, I'm the nation's beloved MPs, my nation, and the budget of the palace that ignores the nation. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) The budget of the palace, its supporters, its elites, its desiccants is also called the Republican People's Party, and we call the single man's regime no, and the palace regime, which prospers when its people become poor, we say no. My compliments to all the General Assembly, my friends.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0237par0632	It's next in line for Kırıkkale MP Ahmet Önal. Here you go, Mr. Önal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0238par0636	Mr. President, I have made a commitment today to the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Department of Mines Review and Research Directorate. First of all, I salute our High Council and all of you dear congressman friends with love and respect. As it is known, the MTA has been established in 1935 in order to establish the country's industry by order since the establishment of our republic, and to find, extract, improve, and evaluate the raw materials, subterranean and subterranean resources it needs. At the same time, the MTA General Directorate has made an effort to develop the human presence that our country needs, while it has fully fulfilled its duties. TPAO General Directorate has also provided the main source for the creation of huge institutions such as TPAO General Directorate, TKI General Directorate, Eti Mining Enterprises, Turkish Taşkomömu Foundation General Directorate, BOTAS, TUPRAS, Petrol Office. The vast majority of these huge organizations that once belonged to our nation have been sold or emptied today. Today, unfortunately, it is not our country's and our state's. It is evident that the establishment of the country's industry and the removal and evaluation of the raw materials, subterranean and above-ground resources that it needs in the establishment of MTA is extremely valuable, but this notion of the establishment of the MTA (MTA) has now lost its value. The government's government-issued subterranean and subterranean resources are no longer government-issued, I'm afraid they're disposable by side. During the AKP's rule, the mining sector is the head of the most important sectors to be destroyed in Turkey. Unfortunately, your power to destroy the ground has set its sights on the ground this time. It is also noted that the owners or partners of the mining companies established in recent years have been close to AKP power. In the last ten years, the number of mining licenses has exceeded 20,000. The most important of the changes in this area, Mr. Erdogan was brought to life by the Mining Law issued by the AKP government as Prime Minister. The strategically important underground resources for Turkey have begun to be quickly privatised during the AKP's rule. From the Mera to the settlements, most of the country has been converted into a minefield, and the areas in the licenses applied for include almost a significant portion of our country's facial measurement. Companies who have no experience or savings in the mining field, who want to gain big profits in a short time, have control over the industry, which is a serious impact on workers' health and the environment. In the last ten years, hundreds of workers have been sacrificed in Ranta. Dear friends, the MTA General Directorate, in order to compete with its counterparts in the world, must be restructured within the scope of the country's needs, as it was originally established, from the fundamental institutions of our economic freedom and regain the dignity it deserves. However, we see that this budget law you have brought has no improvement in making any changes for the Director General of Mines and Search, leading to the restoration of the institution's former function and reputation. Stressing that it is domestic and national at every stage, your authority has not taken a national step towards the removal and operation of underground and aboveground resources. You've sold out the ancestors' heirlooms, state enterprises founded on national capital, but you haven't opened a factory in its place. You haven't replaced one of those national factories that you haven't been able to sell in 16 years. You didn't give your privatisation money to the employee, to the officer, to the pensioner, to the minimum wage, to the subcontractors waiting for the staff, to the teachers waiting for the appointment, to the officers waiting for the 3600 additional indicators, to the pensioners. Are you aware of the damage you've done to our Turkey, where you've taken away the ability to produce even the most basic industrial products? The weapons, gunpowder, rice, heavy weapons and steel factories of the Machine and Chemical Industry Corporation, which is the apple of our national defense industry, are unable to produce today. The production of MKE countertops can easily be built into the private sector, resulting in the number of workers working today in Kırıkkale, where 18,000 workers worked at one time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0239par0643	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0238par0644	Because of this understanding of yours, our young ones who could not find a job in Bırıkkale have already left for the great cities. I'm speaking to the ruling party MPs: put your hand on your conscience, and fear God a little. I salute you all with my deepest respect and love.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0240par0648	Now it's time for Zonguldak MP Deniz Yavuzymazılmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yavuzyil. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0241par0652	Mr. President, I'm on the stand today to give you my opinion on the rare soil elements, the results of our research, but before we go into this, I'd like to give you some information about our energy policy, where we are, and where we are in the world of science, in the world of invention. We want to build nuclear power plants in our country. Look, what you're looking at is a contract between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Russian Federation in the Republic of Turkey relating to the Facility of a Nuclear Power Plant in Akkuyu Field and its Operational Co-operation. So what are we doing in Turkey? We're building a nuclear power plant in agreement. So whose nuclear power plant are we building? A power plant belonging to the state of the Republic of Turkey? Let's look at the terms of the contract right now, and it says: "This contract shall conduct the provisions of an anonymous partnership called Project Company. The Project Company is established directly or indirectly as an anonymous company under the laws and regulations of the Republic of Turkey, with a 100 per cent share of companies authorized by the Russian side. The total shares of the Russian Agency's Project Company can never be less than 51 per cent. So we're building a Russian Federation nuclear plant within the borders of the Republic of Turkey. The Metzamor Nuclear Power Plant is 10 miles from Iğdur, where we can't get a plant from Fi history to be taken out of there like a trap, like dynamite, and we can't shut down this plant on our border, and while the Russian Federation is holding a dish for it, we're building a plant that belongs to them, and what does the Court report say? According to the Court, I do not say that the price of electricity from Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant (Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant) as part of an agreement approved by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Federation of Russia in 2010 is 12.35 cents per cent/kilovatsaat for fifteen years since the transfer of power units into commercial operating. The average sales rate in 2016 is 2,93 cents. There's a 400 per cent price difference, 400 per cent, I'll give it to you. We need to face alternative renewable energy sources in Turkey as soon as possible. We may have missed out on solar power as a country, but there are a lot of discoveries in our country, especially in wave energy. In 2005, a prototype was developed and implemented in the Zonguldak Eregli Alpine region. I would like to present this to the attention of the department in charge of the strategy of our Department of Energy. I especially believe that we need to get this thing going as soon as possible. Of course, Mr. Secretary, unfortunately, I'm addressing him right now, but I hope he'll follow up on the reports, even if he doesn't listen.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0242par0657	They're very busy, friends are talking there.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0241par0658	Rare soil elements are a very important issue. There is a train in the world called the Magelev train, which can exceed 600km per hour, based on the basic working principle of magnetization, which also has an accelerant effect on communication tools. A prototype, model of this, was carried out about three years ago at the Eskişehir Metropolitan City Centre for Science. Again, it's open to improvement. Instead of getting as ready as we can, we need to produce, develop discoveries. And to do that, we need to create a discovery memory of an experiment so that when we're heading towards a goal, into an invention, one of our scientists can come out and develop another invention. Yes, another issue is about the miners in Zonguldak.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0243par0661	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0241par0662	Both our miners in Zonguldak and our people in Zonguldak will face a raise in both corporate and housing rents starting in January. The HFE increase is 38.54 percent as of November; twice as much as the same month of the previous year. If we try to base the TUFE, it's 21.62 percent, 12.98 per cent in the same month as last year, so it's twice as different. We say that in Zonguldak, it is not enough to increase employment, to get TTK back on its feet, to hire 1,500 workers, to retire 2,000 people a year, and now there are 7,200 workers working. The recruits must be at least 35 years old. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0244par0666	Thank you. Hatay MP Mehmet Güzelmansur is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Nicemansur.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0245par0670	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise on the budget of the Department of Mines and Oil. I hereby pay my respects to the General Assembly and to all our citizens who are watching us on TV. The Department of Mines and Oil was established in July, with a Turkish Cypriot Directorate 703, whose short name is MAPEG. The MEPEG was created by combining the General Directorate of Mines and the General Directorate of Oil Affairs. The MEPEG (MAPEG) has critical and important tasks, such as mining and oil licenses, and auditing them. My fellow lawmakers, while discussing minerals, oil, energy issues, we must not go past two important issues: First of all, Turkey is increasingly dependent on external energy. Turkey's rate of energy production has dropped in AKP power. In 2000, outside dependency, 67 per cent, increased to 74 per cent in 2016. Turkey's energy imports totaled near $40 billion. High external dependency in energy is the main cause of both the current deficit and inflation. Extremism in natural gas is 99 per cent, while oil is around 92 per cent. Dear lawmakers, there are reports of natural gas, oil all over the country in the media before each election. What happened to the oil you found in Thrace, in the Black Sea, in Haqkari, in Adıyaman, and in the natural gas? Mr. Secretary, we're not going to be oil producers, we're going to be oil producers. You said, "We're going to lower oil prices." You promised. What happened to those words? Today, our citizens are using the world's most expensive gas based on buying power. In 2008 the price of raw oil was 140 dollars, today's crude oil dropped to $50. Why didn't you take this opportunity? Why don't you reflect this on the citizen? For five or six months, you've received the increase from the Eysel Mobile System, and we have a $8.5 billion UV waiver. There's no advertising you haven't done. Why don't you talk about 66 percent of the taxes that the citizens of this country have spent on gas and motors for years, the waiver that citizens have made in their pockets for years? Why don't you download the EVT in the water? Look, my fellow lawmakers, energy imports are neither the fate nor the choice of Turkey. Our country is a high country with renewable energy potential, such as wind, sun, biomass. When this potential is used, it's not only reduced to external addiction in energy, but also to prevent environmental pollution. Look, my fellow lawmakers, Germany, which has a period of 1,600 hours of sunbathing per year, provides 78 per cent of its daily need for electricity with solar energy. Why can't Turkey, which has two thousand seven hundred and thirty-seven hours of sunbathing per year, do that, use that potential? Why are you still looking for the cure in foreign-guided nuclear power plants? ▪ Why do your rhetorics stand out? Dear lawmakers, this kind of outside dependency in energy is not sustainable. The economic crisis deepened. Therefore, abandon your externally dependent, wrong energy policies immediately. Lower the production of electricity production facilities based on natural gas and imported coal. Give local sources a priority, not a so-called priority. Dear lawmakers, the second issue is a rise in natural gas and electricity inflation. During 2018, you increased electricity used in housing by 31 per cent and electricity used in industry by 41 per cent. From the beginning of 2018, you increased the gas used in the dwellings by 18 percent, the natural gas used in the industry by 37 percent, and the natural gas used in electricity by 50 percent. With these hikes, the minimum consumption of a family of four has increased the price of electricity and gas bills to 273 lira. So I'm asking Mr. Secretary, why don't you take back these raises after the exchange fell because the exchange went up?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0246par0681	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0245par0682	You're accusing those who raise in crisis of opportunism, those who don't lower their prices when the exchange comes. Isn't it an opportunity not to take back electricity and gas increases? Mr. Secretary, please take these raises back as soon as possible, and don't turn a citizen's winter into a black winter. No burning radiators, no nets, no burning citizens' pockets. Before I finish, I want you to listen to the cries of 650 workers fired at Kütahya Meat Silver and 300 workers who haven't been paid in three months. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0247par0686	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, we now speak for İzmir MP Mahir Polandt. Here you go, Mr. Polat. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0248par0691	Mr. President, Mr. Court, distinguished members of our High Council, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the budget of our Trade Ministry. If we have to briefly define the area of our Trade Ministry's mandate, we can list domestic and foreign trade policies and objectives as implementing appropriate customs and foreign trade practices. In terms of domestic trade, compared to the data of the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchange Association, 9.467 companies in the first ten months, 15,796 real-person business is closed. In the last eight months, 1,401 companies have requested concordato. In 2008, the number of executive and bankruptcy files, which amounted to 8 million, increased to 19.9 million in November 2018. With all of this in this state -- these businesses -- we see that our Trade Ministry is not taking sufficient precautions, it's not using enough of its field and its area of responsibility. Members of parliament, we see that exports are increasing with a number of data ahead of us, the foreign trade deficit is falling in favour of exports. These are natural in times of crisis, because dollars go up, import stops, the exporter's costs go down, especially from the labour market, and so the external trade deficit seems to have dropped, but it's not sustainable. What's really important here is the cheapness of labor, the increase in competitiveness over work abroad. While the wealth of all the world's people was measured in dollars, Turkey could receive $425, not much, not a minimum wage month in May, with its salary, this number is now reduced to $298, and the poorness of our people is revealed by this data. On top of that, we said in the Ministry presentation: Turkey needs brands in the world market, it needs to be marketed because the brand will add an additional value to the products produced in our country as well as to the value of the product you produce. Congressmans, again, we insisted that Turkey, which produces, should be out of the country with high added products, should produce non-alternative products, so that our economy would not be affected by any depression that we would encounter because of our volatile foreign policy. For example, it was the embargo after the crisis with America. In order to produce high-cost products, you have to believe in Turkey, which produces them. In manufacturing, you have to use science and technology, be the country that produces science and technology. For that, we need grown brains that know how to produce, but we all know where brain migration has been in Turkey in recent days. While the world has increased the diversity and value of production by industry 4.0 and artificial intelligence, our Turkey has unfortunately declined in this type of technology transfers and has missed out on developing the product diversity, one of the Ministry's main targets. When we look at our foreign trade, we're trying to suppress our foreign trade with protection measures, so we're trying to stop imports with some protection measures. That's not the right logic. The product will come to Turkey again, and the market will again find the price of the product in its own balance, and it will be imported again. What do you have to do instead? We have to do something else. The point is... companies and developed brands that invest in technology, have RD activities, have no alternatives, and produce high-end products need to be encouraged to leave the country. If we do that, we'll be dragging our foreign trade deficit all the way down. The Minister's other line of duty is customs. When it came to customs, ministers who had come before had a sense of governance. And while they were doing that, they'd go on some red tape, change heads and stuff. So far, Mr. Secretary hasn't had that kind of understanding. As the Minister does not have such an understanding, unfortunately, customs have been established as a cross-eyed institution while looking at customs. The lack of a room code for customs advisors who operate in customs is still available, and the position of the Customs Law is open to interpretation, causing questions and problems in customs. Enjoyable practices in customs continue. I don't want to tell you this from this bench, but when you're sitting with a customs consultant or a foreign trader, he'll tell you in detail. Congressmans, our country is getting poorer and poorer. In this third day's budget marathon, the speakers before me described this - the country is becoming poor, the waste is increasing. We need to stop waste, prevent poverty in the country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0249par0703	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0248par0704	Our country people are getting poor, our country is getting poor. I'd like to stop saluting you with the verses of our famous poet, Nazim Hikmet. I salute you all with the hope that our people, our manufacturer, our employee, will not be poor.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0250par0708	Now it's time for Manisa MP Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Bakırlıoğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0251par0712	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Commerce's budget. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, our country is in a major economic crisis. Increased currency rates, increasing inflation, expensive life, slowing economy, falling industrial production, diminishing trade power affected our most narrow-income citizens. During each crisis, those responsible for the crisis, or the authorities, will bill the crisis to the millions who have to live on the real victims of the crisis, our small-income citizens, our farmers, our pensions, minimum wage. It is always up to the poor citizens, citizens of this country to tighten their belts. Like all of my community, our tradesman is negatively affected by this crisis. Our tradesman and artist, who are the pillars of our economic and social life, is unfortunately unable to survive, unable to breathe. He doesn't know what it's like to shut up before you do anything. He doesn't know what it's like to sell the goods you've saved for years in a crisis. He who doesn't do business, he who doesn't do business, he who doesn't do it, he who doesn't do it, he who doesn't do it. Dear lawmakers, as a brother of yours, born and raised in the central market of Akhisar, I address you: Our tradesman is oppressed under tax burdens and BUG-KUR bonuses; he is unable to pay his debts, bonds, checks, or rent. Today, hundreds of thousands of tradesmen owe BUG-KUR, and the amount of that debt was based on $25 billion. Due to the frequent restructuring of the institution's purchases, the execution process has retraceed a significant portion of our business that has stopped. Because of his debt, he cannot benefit from health care. Unfortunately, our tradesman has difficulty paying BUG-KUR bonuses for $600. Given the economic picture we're in, it's imperative that at least there be no increase in BUG-KUR bonuses in 2019. In the budget talks, Mr. Trade Minister stated that the debt owed by the tradesman and the artist to the co-ops was $30 billion. In 2014, the debt was fixed for our 90 thousand tradesmen who were struggling to pay, and the interest reached $400 million that day was wiped out, so that about 220 thousand people along with the guarantors were saved from the pursuit of execution. The same application was launched in 2018, a deposit of 200,000 tradesmen's debt of $786m was restructured and about 200 million interest was wiped out. It's been repeated every five years. Structural, radical changes are now necessary. Our shopkeeper has been waiting for years for the AVM law to come out. The 2016 arrangement did not meet expectations. Today, there are 400 malls, 80 per cent in major cities, and as the mall opens, the shop closes. According to the latest arrangement, 5 per cent of the AVM's total area would have to be divided into tradesmen, while not one per cent would have been found. Under the circumstances, it is impossible, it is impossible, it is impossible. Dear lawmakers, after the rise in foreign currency, our small tradesman who was forced to pay his rent was not thought of by anyone. ▪ Inflation figures are obvious, what can we do to the shopkeeper? You can take the rent out of the workplace, for example. In the present situation, our business-renowned business owner has to pay this tax for someone else's earnings, even if it's a loss, which leads to injustice. The tradesman's demands are obvious, but the tradesman is unregistered. The establishment of a trade ministry that will take care of the shop should be our priority. The removal of the mortgage tax from the shop's rent, the failure to increase the BUG-KUR premiums in 2019, the removal of the zero-interest life-water loan will take a breath away from our shop. Dear MPs, I listened carefully to the Treasury and Finance Minister's one-hour budget presentation, and in this one-hour speech, the minister's not once said the word "esnaph" in any sentence, it is clear that the words "effective" (e.g.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0252par0720	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0251par0721	He has chosen the ruling side of the Republican People's Party, the Republican People's Party; the tradesman, the producer, the peasant, the pensioner, the officer, the worker, the unemployed, the women, the young, the people. In this case, it is not possible for us to accept such a budget. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0252par0724	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the final statement is from Hatay MP Suzan Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0253par0728	I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group regarding the budget of the Competition Foundation and the Hellal Accreditation Agency. The Competitive Association is an independent control agency founded to ensure that the markets of goods and services are free and sound competition. When we look at it, it looks independent and transparent on paper, but how independent, it's controversial. It is unthinkable for the president and all his members to be independent of an institution appointed by one person. Transparency? The transparency is debatable. In his description, he must not receive orders or instructions from any body or authority. The Competitiveness Agency does not do its job properly and is used as the club of power. According to Article 167 of our Constitution, state, money, credit, capital, goods and services markets are adopted by developers and developers, preventing monetisation and cartelisation in markets due to actual or agreements, but the Competitive Institution has taken on a mission, especially for advocacy protection. This institution, which has been implemented to create an equal opportunity among companies and to be a balancing factor, has been tasked to protect the advocacy of the tenders and render the non-compulsive absorption of the non-compulsive. For example, as the court advocates who received all the tenders in the construction sector favour three or five contractors, it is an anti-constitutional practice to approve the sale of a certain media group. The fact that the media is to be completely advocacy, run by a certain group is to create a single media that has a say in the perception and consciousness of the public. Many voices of the free press have been asked to be destroyed. Is this the institution that makes competition right, which is neutral, balancing, preventing monotheism? The Competition Agency is not doing its duty, members. What's the Competition Agency gonna do, though? Five subsidiary companies are getting a $300 billion bid. As an institution, should the relatives of the groom protect the company, protect the prince's schoolmate, or should the relatives of the president protect the company? The institution is caught in the middle, unable to cope with unfair competition; it is sufficient for opposition or opposition municipalities. In CHP municipalities, inspectors work as staff of nine nights and six nights in the morning. If you vote for the public when CHP municipalities are being pressured and tried to prevent them from doing service, the services will come. The pressure will also create unfair competition in municipalities. Let them go and work in AKP-based municipalities, why do they exist only in opposition municipalities? The institution, whose short name is αHAK, is busy hosting a number of mediocrity groups. This institution, founded to distribute rights, is an empty institution and is the stick of power, wherever we look in Turkey, where justice has collapsed, its foundation has been weakened. So we, the CHP Group, will say no to the budget. Members, today is December 12th: Tutum, Investment and Turkish Property Week. Where's the Turkish stuff, where's the local production? To the seed of Israel, to Angus of Latin America, to the tomato of Russia...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0254par0737	Are there tomatoes in Russia?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0253par0738	...the AKP government, which needs the hay of Bulgaria, puts in front of us today as one of its budget pencils the Hellal Accreditation Foundation budget, imposes anthrax on our citizens, conditioning the imported Angus trade and Israeli seed to our farmer. If you're using native seeds, if you're using domestic livestock, you're fined by the government, and then you're talking nationalism. You are as insincere in the matter of the law as in the matter of the law, and you devour the right by deceiving the people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This institution does not oppose GMO-based and chemical food products, importing diseased meat exports, it does not perform its duty unless the rights of the Turkish farmer and animal manufacturer are exacerbated and sound financial and self-centered...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0255par0742	What does it mean to deceive the people, Mr. President? Do people bleed? What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0253par0743	It means he's designing the concept of "haram" according to the AKP government. This institution must first make an attempt to legalise the AKP government's rights violations; then see if the slaughtered animals were cut according to Islamic conditions, and whether the products in the market contain pork content. The main thing is to protect and encourage domestic production and domestic producers that don't threaten public health. It is good to give our people rights, to oppose the destruction of their rights, and it is called justice. Justice is now just a woman's name in Turkey. If you're sincere, let's make sure that all government institutions get their rights, law, justice, rights, and then we'll make their budget. Even Hatay's canary-loving association serves its purpose better than these institutions. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For these reasons, the budget of this institution, which is on paper but is genuine and is not real, will also be called the CHP Group no. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0256par0750	Dear friends, this concludes the speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Gökcal has a brief request for a statement, our Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Gökcal.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0257par0755	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I offer my condolences to Altug Verdi, our chief of police who died in his position yesterday, to God's mercy, to his father, his grieving family, and to the entire police department, who served on various levels as a member of law enforcement. Dear President, I'm telling our farmers who have suffered a tornado disaster in Anamur, and all the help they're going to receive is determined by preliminary assessments that we have 40 farmers here, and the banana and strawberry greenhouses have been damaged in this disaster. Our farmers are not insured for agriculture, and they owe a lot of money because the greenhouse installation costs are high. After the damage assessment commission has submitted its final report, all of our manufacturers must be compensated quickly. There's a lot of land at stake. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In order for our damaged farmers to continue production, the assistance of the state must be delivered immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0258par0761	Thank you. Mr. Montenegro also has a brief request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Montenegro.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0259par0765	Thank you, Mr. President. There are some leaders who leave deep traces in society. After decades, society will not forget its leader. In the 15th year of the death of Brother Azerbaijan, the national leader of the people, Haydar Aliyev. It is also Genghis Aytmatov's birthday on December 12th. On December 12, 1928, I remember Genghis Aytmatov, the tireless literary envoy of the Turkish world, with love, longing and respect, the spirit of Kyrgyzistan, the great poet of the mountains. What did the White Ship say: those who forget the names of their fathers, and who they are, are not ashamed to do evil. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit03spe0260par0769	Thank you. Guys, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0260par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and with the Central Management Act of 2017. The commission is in place. Now, there will be talks on behalf of the National Party for Action.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0261par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0260par0006	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0261par0007	Sir, there is a demand that a group of students visiting our House should be announced to the public immediately. I'd like to ask for a quote from 60, if I may.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0260par0008	Sure. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0261par0011	Mr. President, thank you very much. The issue our young friends have asked us to come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to visit the groups and to address them in parliament is this: According to the City Fire Rules, municipalities can employ any high school and a first degree graduate in the buy of firefighters. In just eight years, Turkey has opened a programme for defence and firefighting for 41 universities. The number of students raised is 9.520. In high school, 12 firefighters and fire safety departments were launched. They ask us, "If we are not going to employ people in these parts, why do we engage our children and our young ones in education? " Because municipalities see fit to employ people from the subcontractors and outsiders rather than receive a total of 13,500 pre-license and high school graduates as firefighters. They want a change in the regulations and a declaration from a minimum high school degree for firefighting, a pre-license for civil defence and firefighting, or a high school for fire safety and fire safety. Second, the authorities employ men for firefighting, except for some exceptions. They ask, "Why don't we hire trained women who are trained in these schools, in high schools, in vocational schools, as firefighters?" In our schools, we teach our children by the sweats of our fathers and mothers. We need to hire the children we've been reading to graduates. I do, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0262par0016	Thank you. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 Dear friends, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker is Antalya MP Abdurrahman, President. Yes, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0263par0059	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your honorable delegation and the great Turkish nation who are watching us at the head of the television. I wish Allah's mercy to Altug Verdi, who was killed yesterday in an armed attack, to our wounded police, to our immediate healing and to our safety community. I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Party for Action in the 2019 budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Turkey divides most of its income into energy imports. One of the basic dynamics of growth, development, being a developed country is energy. As a country, it is imperative that we establish a national energy policy in planning long-term energy supplies. Energy sources are renewable and irrenewable. Renewable sources are solar energy, water energy, wind energy, geothermal and bioenergy. Unrenewable sources are coal, oil, natural gas and nuclear energy. To meet our country's rapidly increasing energy demand, we must use our limited natural resources rationally. The policies towards diversifying energy production with new technologies, increasing efficiency, and alternative energy sources are of great importance. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, all natural gas used in industry, power plants and housing in our country is covered by imports. In 2017, 52 per cent of the natural gas imported was imported from Russia, 17 per cent from Iran, 12 per cent from Azerbaijan, while the remaining 19 per cent was imported from the LNG. One of the important things that should not be neglected about natural gas is that natural gas storage units, such as Salt Lake, are first activated, their capacity increased, and they are ready to be used in any international crisis. Oil is also imported in the same way and has passed 17 million tonnes as of October 2018. Most of the imports of oil products and derivatives are made from Iran, 19 per cent from Russia, 16.5 per cent from Iraq. Only 7 per cent of the consumed oil is obtained from sources within the country. As a rapidly developing country, Turkey should focus on high renewable sources of industrial and technology. Companies who invest in this area must be reduced to bureaucracy and provided with ease through incentives. Unfortunately, there's a lot of pollution in energy investments. In order to fix this, investors need to be trained experts with the equipment to provide the necessary support and information, and those experts need to direct the investor in the right direction. In particular, it is necessary to clarify the ministry's legislation and prevent continuous regulation changes. Mr. President, valued lawmakers aim to create a financially strong, stable and transparent energy market that can operate in a competitive environment, in order to ensure that electricity, natural gas, oil and LPG have sufficient, quality, continuous low-cost and environmentally available to consumers, and to ensure independent regulation and control of this market. One of the major problems in the energy market is the missing fugitive problem. As the National Movement Party, we demand that this problem, which is a heavy burden for our narrow-income citizens, be resolved as soon as possible. The charge of electricity for the farmer, the industrialist, the tradesman must also be lightened immediately. For this purpose, the loss of illegal cargo and cost of reading counters should not be reflected to the consumer, the TRT share, the Energy Fund share, the municipality must be reduced or removed altogether. Our country has a geographical advantage over the sun, an endless source of energy. In terms of domestic and national solar energy, the private sector should be encouraged and gradually reduce the external dependence of solar panels and equipment, which is a significant investment cost. It's a good thing to see investments in solar panels and equipment, the most important investment cost, starting to happen quickly, for our country's sake. The 1000 megawatt solar power plant will be an example of what will be set up in the cognac Karapınar, and will make a significant contribution to our supply economy. Turkey's wind energy potential has been determined to be 48,000 megawatts. In 2017, 18 billion kilowatts of electricity was produced from wind power. As of June 2018, the total power of wind power plants is 6.7 megawatts. I can't help but think of biogas power plants as an agricultural engineer in the renewable energy caps here. Biogas will be a cure for our country's land, which is both heat source and organic matter poor, by-product of plant and animal waste left to rot. It will add value to our economy as an organic fertilizer byproduct. Germany is a great example of this, but why should the Turkish farmer be deprived of this alternative source of energy and income while both producing energy and adding it to his farmer? In order to prevent rural migration, such energy support investments should be provided for our farmers, and biogas production should be brought back on the agenda. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, about 11 per cent of electricity production in the world is covered by nuclear energy. The price of a hundred and fifty years delaying the printing press and being late in the industrial revolution has been very high. Even though we're a little late in nuclear energy, what can we say to future generations if we repeat this mistake? Isn't it a coincidence that the largest and most developed countries in agriculture in the world are often the same as the most advanced countries in nuclear energy, as in the examples of the United States, Russia, France, Canada? Half of the 454 nuclear reactors in the business are in France, the United States, China and Japan. There are 54 reactors in construction. In addition to being first among the members of the European Union with 59 nuclear reactors, France is the top of the countries that provide 71.6 per cent of energy consumption nuclearly and the cheapest electricity in the European Union. First in the world, countries with environmental sensitivity, such as France, Germany, Canada, meet 14.80 per cent of the country's consumption with 18 nuclear reactors. The United States owns 104 nuclear reactors, providing 20 per cent of its energy consumption with nuclear power. Taking into account environmental and technological precision, new technology and nuclear plants in our country in Akkuyu and Sinop have been estimated to produce about 80 billion kilowatts per year. In order to obtain this amount of electricity from natural gas plants, about 16 billion cubic metres of natural gas is required to be paid $7.2 billion. Therefore, four units of nuclear power plants can be established in Mersin Akkuyu, with only the money to be paid for gas imports in three years. Buy prices will be made with the do-and-work-state model, yes, while a certain amount is expensive and will have complete use of our country at the end of the fifteen years, so it should not be ignored that there will be a cheap energy source for our country from these years. The late Abraham Bodur, a famous industrialist of ours, is not a feasibility of national matters. He has sent us an important message, saying, "Let his place be paradise." The benefit of nuclear energy is very important for our country's vision and future, not just for electricity production, but for nuclear technology to allow it to be used in agriculture, space work, industry, medicine, and mechanization. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency was established to provide 13/7/1982 dates and 2690 laws to ensure the peaceful use of nuclear energy to the country, to make arrangements and audits on this issue. The principles and foundations needed to protect from the potential harmful effects of ionizing radiation that could occur during the use of nuclear energy are among the key tasks of TAEK. Mr. President, it is the duty of the National Bor Research Institute to produce and investigate the boron research, which is an important underground source. Our Boron reserves were known to be 600 million tons in 1978, but the search has determined that we have 3.3 billion tons of reserves today. We are ranked first in the world's total boron reserve ranking with a 73 per cent share.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0264par0078	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0263par0079	In our country, industrial companies must be supported by creating sectoral labour units to increase the consumption of borons, the development of bora-based industry, the increase of efficient and innovative investments in the boron. Reservore studies are still in association with the Mine-MTA. The world's consumption of boron products is around 3.86 million tonnes. In 2017, about 57 per cent of the world's demand for boron was met by Turkey and the production of refined boron products was produced at 2 million tonnes in 2017. As of the end of June 2018, the Mine made $471 million in revenues in exchange for sales of 1.1 million tons of boron products. While the Bor is in possession of production, the study of boron-based, added, high export products is one of the most important tasks of National Bor Research. Bor is a very important national asset used in many fields from agriculture to chemistry to industry to space studies, and it's too valuable to be used in conspiracy theories and speculation. Energy is a matter of generations with the future of a country, and it's a matter of nationality. In some ways, we politicians may disagree, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we have an obligation to stick together on issues such as defense, energy, and beka problems. I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0265par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Now it's time for Aksaray MP Ramazan Kashlı. Here you go, Mr. Eyebrows. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0266par0093	Mr. President, I have received a pledge to represent our party within the scope of the 2019-Year Centre Management Budget Bill and the 2017 Central Management Accounting Law Bill, Department of Energy and Resources, Energy Market Editing Agency, Nuclear Editing Agency, Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency, National Bor Research Institute budget-cut accounts talks. At the beginning of my words, I salute your delegation, the General Assembly, and our valued citizens watching us at the beginning of their screens. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are the most important factor in improving the quality of life, providing energy, economic and social progress, one of the basic dynamics of growing up, developing, becoming an advanced country, establishing a state, guiding the fate of a nation. As the world's population grows, so does the need for energy. Right now, the struggles around the world are about the production of energy, the governance of energy. Turkey has to address the problem of national energy in order to survive free and of its own free will while reassigning its position in this fight. Governments that can hold power sources and control those resources can only guide their own future. Industrialisation, urbanization, natural resources and energy will significantly increase demand in the world that is expected to grow in its population and economy. We need to be able to free ourselves from external addiction and build national energy as we meet the demand for energy in proportion to our growing population. In particular, as soon as our country is located at the center of the fossil energy map, it must gain energy through modern methods as soon as possible. In this sense, the activities of the Fatih and Deepsea Metro 1 ships that have been brought down to the Mediterranean are increasing our hopes for the future. In addition, we need to maintain our rights in the Eastern Mediterranean, and speed up our drilling efforts in supply of oil and natural gas, which are imported hydrocarbon energy sources. If we can pull this off, we'll be able to supply five centuries of energy with $3 trillion in natural gas reserves. We must protect our sea powers against the energy games in the Mediterranean, and we must become one against all international games. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are expected to increase the energy imports of our country to 46 billion dollars by the end of 2018, at 37.2 billion dollars in 2017. Turkey, which is growing faster than its population economy, is now a country dependent on energy imports. As a matter of fact, in our country, 92 per cent of oil was imported 99 per cent of natural gas, while our energy dependence on external energy was 75 per cent. 51 per cent of our natural gas imports are still made from Russia, 16 per cent from Iran, 11.8 per cent from Azerbaijan. It is imperative that both supply and demand-directional measures be carried out in order for Turkey to maintain a significant share of energy imports, which are in the current deficit. In Turkey's energy consumption, fossil deposits have 85 per cent share. About 80 per cent of fossil fuel consumption in Turkey is monitored by imports, and the share of energy imports is about 50-60 per cent on tape. As you can see, it is important that foreign policymakers, energy experts, security bureaucracy and economic actors in Turkey take a closer interest in modern and renewable resources. In order to form a national energy policy, external dependence on energy raw materials must be reduced, to a maximum assessment of coal and renewable energy sources, to ensure the diversity of the source country in energy imports, to ensure an effective demand for energy supply in an efficient way, without interruption and adequate fulfillment. In this area, especially solar and wind energy offers significant opportunities for Turkey's economy. The electricity-lost problem is an important problem; the problem must be resolved, and the cost of reading the meter with the missing illegal cost should not be reflected to the consumer; the TRT share, the Energy Fund share, the municipal consumption tax must also be removed. Our main goal should be to eliminate our country from being a country that sells and sells raw materials in mining and become a country that is integrated with industry, which has a high value of addition in the world markets. To do so, the industrial sector, primarily the productions of minerals such as boron, soda, chromium, marble, iron, and iron, should be thought of as a whole, planning as a whole, and a national mining policy and strategy should be created. The number of natural gas storage sites should be increased by the capacity of storage and daily injections, creating high opportunities for extraordinary situations and seasonal fluctuations, setting up an oil-stocking agency to increase national oil stock capacity. The Salt Lake underground gas storage facility, capable of storing 5.4 billion cubic metres of natural gas in the last spring of the Sultanhanı district, is an important step for Turkey's energy security. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you about the energy issues of my hometown of the saintly city of Aksaray. Especially in our Eskil and Sultanhanı districts and villages here, there are major problems with the price of electricity used by our farmers in agricultural irrigation. The previously accessible underground water at 50 meters is now available at 150 meters. At these levels, it is seen that the saltiness rate is higher in water, but drawing water from these levels also increases the cost of electricity and makes the land barren. It increases electricity production costs used by our farmers, our industrialists, and our tradesmen for expensive tariffs. The solution is to support our farmers by applying discounted tariffs for the farmers and the people who produce them. There is a great shortage of irrigation in our region, which is also known as Turkey's grain barn.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0267par0102	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0266par0103	This area must be brought to us immediately for agricultural irrigation. The solution is to provide water evacuation to the dam, which is now dry in Eşmekaya, Eskil district of Hirfanlı Dam and Kızırmakmak. This will save electricity and the agricultural water problem of our countrymen will be resolved permanently. At the end of my words, I salute the General Assembly, that the budget of the year 2019 should bring blessings to our country, our nation, and give new hope to all our citizens.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0267par0106	Düzce MP Umit Yılmaz is next. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0268par0110	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, I would like to ask for God's mercy on our brother Altug Verdi, who was a martyr in Rize yesterday, and his condolences on his grieving family and our wounded friends. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Movement on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Precious lawmakers have entered a period in our country and in the world, where energy is highly important, energy zones are being exploited in various ways by imperial forces, and energy is the most important factor in becoming global power. In light of these developments, our country is not very rich in energy sources, but its location is key. The importance of the energy zones around our country and our country is increasing at this time when production courses are shifting rapidly from west to east. Our country is also at the point of transition from energy regions to countries of the European Union, which is energy, natural gas and oil pipelines. On this occasion, Turkey's importance increases the point of intersection in energy transitions. The transit lines our country has made in the past years along with neighbouring countries Azerbaijan, Russia, Iraq and Iran are the best examples. We want it to be known that we support the creation of new projects as part of the National Movement Party, as well as the planned lines. In particular, lines such as the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline, which passes through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey and carries Caspian oil to the Mediterranean, and the TurkAkm carrying Russian natural gas to Europe, will also increase the relations of countries in the region and will provide revenue to our country. Dear lawmakers, the growing need for energy in our country in recent years has increased external dependency. In 2018, our energy imports are 46 billion dollars. That means that a significant portion of the country's resources go into imports. Cari must quickly make new and domestic investments in energy that leads to a significant share in the open. When new investments are being made, a national energy policy must be created, a maximum use of the country's resources in order to reduce external dependence on energy. Acquisition of external sources in energy should increase the country's diversity. New energy technologies, especially nuclear energy, must be opened up to the ability to produce domestically. The most important thing for our country to focus on is more investment in renewable energy sources. The country is marked by Germany's recent investment in solar energy. Germany, according to official data, produces 46 times the solar energy that we produce, although it uses the sun as much as 60 per cent of what our country is taking advantage of. In view of this framework, our view of solar energy needs to be changed, investment support should be increased. Another thing to draw attention to about renewable energy is wind energy. Although there have been many investments in wind energy in recent years, the country's potential has not been used enough. Dear lawmakers, the most important thing to draw attention to in energy investments is to be environmentally sensitive. It's the immediate abandonment of HES projects that have led to the natural slaughter in recent years. Two HES, built in my hometown of Düzce, caused the streams to dry. The drying of Aksu Creek in Gölyaka is endangering Lake Efteni, a wonder of nature, in Beyköy. In many parts of the Black Sea, such as Düzce, the HESEs must discuss economic gains while destroying nature. Dear lawmakers, electricity, natural gas and water bills have broken the back of our citizen, along with recent economic difficulties. The amount of distribution from bills, missing fugitives, meter readings, TRT shares, energy funds, are inflating bills. Electricity, natural gas and water bills hold an important place in the expense pens of all citizens, from the workers to the farmers, from the industrialists to the shopkeepers, so these bills must be adjusted, unconsummated pens should be removed from the bills. Energy is the ultimate pen for development and production. In particular, it is essential for farmers and industrialists to be supported in energy. The price increase in electricity, natural gas and fuel, leading to production entries, is causing the farmer and the industrialist to suffer. If we want to increase production, therefore reduce inflation, it is imperative that all producing sectors, especially the industry and the farmers, are given the necessary energy support. Dear lawmakers, the mining sector has not had its importance within the country's economy for years. The sector's share of national income does not exceed 1%. At the beginning of the problems of the mining industry is the sale of raw materials. Unfortunately, most of our mines are sold as raw materials before they're finalized. However, it is imperative that it be sold in a high value of additives, create a national mining policy, and make new plans in the mining sector. In addition, our country's report card for mining is very poor in terms of the accidents suffered by miners. The 301 mineral martyrs we gave in Soma, May 13, 2014, unfortunately, did not have to be an example to prevent accidents in the mines. Accidents often occur in mines after the accident in Soma. Two weeks ago, three more miners were killed in a cave-in in an illegal mine in Zonguldak Kilimli.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0269par0122	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0268par0123	It is not right to approach accidents that often occur in the mines with destiny. The controls in the mines must be increased and the accidents and casualties must be prevented immediately. Dear MPs, energy and mines are irrefutablely important in the country's economy. Therefore, a new and national energy policy must be established, and the necessary work must be done immediately. I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0270par0127	Next is İzmir MP Tamer Osmanakaoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Osmanakaoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0271par0131	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group over the budgets of the Delegation of Mines and Petroleum Affairs, Mining Review and Research Directorate and the Nadir Earth Elements Research Institute. I hereby salute your honorable delegation and the great Turkish nation who follow us at the beginning of their screens. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to express my condolences on the mercy of Almighty God to our Chief of Police, Altug Verdi, who was attacked on duty yesterday. Today, underground resources and energy are the most important determinant of foreign policy. This is an indication of the importance of oil, natural gas and alternative energy sources in the coming years, and that energy wars will increase further. As a matter of fact, behind all the political, military and social developments in our geography is the sharing of the energy fields. During a share of oil and gas fields in our geography, efforts to disrupt our country's political, military, economic and social dynamics have also gained momentum. In particular, national policies and external-supported chaos projects, which the National Movement Party has supported in recent years, have failed to achieve its goal. This, however, is not enough to eliminate energy dependence and a trade deficit that depends on it. Dear lawmakers, there is an essential issue in the creation of energy independence and development programmes that are of great importance to economic growth. Unfortunately, our country, which has failed to implement sustainable policies on energy, is 75% dependent on energy. In 2017, energy imports cost our economy $37.2 billion. The cost is estimated to be around 46 billion dollars in 2018, 43 billion in 2019, and 44.2 billion in 2020. In 2017, electricity production in our country is 293 billion kilowatts per hour, which is 37 per cent produced by natural gas, and we see electricity production among the causes of external energy dependency. At this point, I'd like to say that reducing external dependency has gone through energy savings to stimulate renewable energy potentials and towards non-consensual sources such as rock gas. In terms of energy supply and security, we recently find it important to complete the 930km of the Turkish Stream Gas Pipeline Project. The fact that half of the natural gas will go to the EU with Turkish Akmım is going to increase the geostrategic importance of Turkey in terms of the EU makes this project even more valuable. I also want to point out that the debate over the status of the Caspian Sea for twenty-two years has been resolved by an agreement signed on August 12, 2018. Projects that are important to the EU and will reduce Turkey's high energy dependence on energy can be implemented. A major obstacle has been eliminated for Trans Caspian Pipeline, which will connect Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan. It will also be possible for Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan to export to the EU through Azerbaijan and Turkey to the EU countries. With these projects, not only will our country's hand be relieved, but it will have the potential to be the source of huge breakthroughs in the Turkish world. However, it is imperative that Turkey make four summits with the participation of Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, in which different projects could be brought to the attention without delay. Mr. President, according to the report of the Turkish National Committee of the World Energy Council, Turkey has the potential to produce enormous electricity such as 750 billion kilowatts if it activates its resources. Given that our electricity consumption was 293 billion kilowatts per year in 2017, it also turns out that we can produce electricity, such as 535 billion kilowatts, which we can export in addition to the energy we need. This will also help to relax the energy supply pens. Because electricity bills have become one of the most important cost pencils of farmers, merchants and industrialists. In the long run, problems that can be resolved by national energy policy can be minimized in the short term. The electricity bills of the farmer, the industrialist, the tradesman and our citizen must be lightened. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid we can't effectively use our resources on mining, but we can't seem to get rid of the raw materials exporter position. In particular, converting metals such as marble, boron, soda, chrome, and iron into products of added value is important for both the country's economy and the sector. In addition, RD activities and sectoral incentives should be focused on the processing of rare and precious minerals such as gold, thorium, boron. On this occasion, I would like to point out that in our country, we need to establish an environmentally friendly, non-violent understanding in the work and industrial activities of our mining resources. Energy production policies, which do not consume the source, do not harm the human and the environment, should not be delayed in implementing them. These are the areas of my constituency, which our beautiful Izmir (Izmir) expects to be carried out immediately. Like our Bornova district, where quarryes cause environmental and air pollution, Izmir expects this from us, where garbage mountains are formed, perhaps a large source of energy production is wasted. Let it not be forgotten that every square inch of our land, underground and subterranean resources, is not an inheritance that we can spend in our own way, but also an important trust of our own, which we must carry to future generations. It is our duty to keep this trust. Mr. President, we are going through a delicate period in which the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus are being pushed out of the equation of energy in the Eastern Mediterranean. In recent weeks, oil producer countries in the Mediterranean have been trying to increase their wealth. In this context, the provocative initiatives of Greece, Egypt and the Greek Cypriot Administration, especially in the United States and Israel, indicate that the process has gone to a different level in the Mediterranean. At this point, at the opening of the budget talks, our Vice President, Mr Fuat Oktay, finds his testimony to be valuable, and we find our state's current position and position in the face of dirty games on the Mediterranean energy basin. I find it useful to remind you that Turkey will never allow itself or the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to be stripped of its rights. The cunnings of the US-Israeli Egyptian government, whose legitimacy is disputed, will never be allowed. Terrorist supporter, it will never be accepted that our so-called ally, the United States, acted out of respect for Turkey's rights. The Republic of Turkey will never challenge Israel and its pawns, who follow policies that will put our country in every position. With a pirated understanding, we want those who plan on energy resources in the Eastern Mediterranean to know that Turkey has the power and will to disrupt these games. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0272par0148	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0271par0149	Those who have a problem with Turkey's sovereignty rights should know that Turkey's sovereignty rights are not open to debate. Our message is clear with the testimony of our leader, Mr. State Gardener, who is eager to violate these rights, Greece and its surprised allies: the Turkish nation is a hero, the Turkish state an ancient and veteran. Those who want to shackle our presence, we drown them with our faith, we trample them with our dignity, we destroy them with our strength. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the budget of 2019 would be a blessing for our country and our nation, and I salute the grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0272par0152	Thank you. Now it's time for Malatya MP Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Fendoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0273par0157	Mr. President, my esteemed ministers, members of the Commission, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group on the central management budget of 2019, the Ministry of Commerce budget. I salute the General Assembly. The budget for 2019 is the first budget of the presidential government system, the first proposal sent to parliament by the presidency. So, as the National Movement Party, we generally view the 2019 central management budget as a positive. However, we have opinions, constructive criticisms, and suggestions regarding budget pencils and institutional budgets. It is the main elements of customs and trade policies to ensure that the trade of Turkey is made easier and safer, but also faster and better. The legal, administrative, physical, technical and financial capacity of concerned institutions that have ensured our country's compliance with the changing conditions in the world trade must be adapted to the developments in the world. It is imperative that we maintain customs services quickly and effectively, end the waiting at the gates, increase manpower and technical capacity. The activities of the trades and artists should be supported in order to prevent competition in the economy, prevent monopoly formations, create employment, repair the imbalances in the revenue distribution, bring new entrepreneurs into the economy, preserve social peace, repair intergalactic imbalances and stimulate local potential. The level of technology use and product quality of the trade cut should increase efficiency, facilitating access to information, strengthening main and side-industrial connections. Occupational standards must be developed, the tradesman needs to be given a residency identity, and the awareness of decency must be created. The large chain of markets, which has threatened the destruction of the tradesman and artist, must be prevented from unfair competition against the small tradesman. A comprehensive programme must be announced in addition to individual arrangements to boost the competitiveness of the market, the SMEs and the tradesmen. Regional, sectoral and national innovation should be put to immediate implementation of strategy and policies. A reduction in taxes and premiums should be made for SMEs and tradesmen; special tariffs should be provided in electricity, water, and natural gas. SMEs should be supported, invested in RD, employed by researchers. They need to be made into brandings, institutionalization, and development of innovative business models. SMEs need to increase the capacity of manpower at every level, training towards qualified manpower, industrial cooperation policies should be supported, apprenticeship and support must be implemented. SMEs and tradesmen are in dire straits of financing and debt. According to BDK data, COBI loans, which were 125 billion dollars in 2010, rose at a high rate each year, reaching $663 billion as of September 2018. The loans followed by the SME have also increased rapidly and have exceeded $36 billion. SMEs are 5.4 per cent of the following and are far above the total follow-up rate. 3 million 153,111 KOBI Τ using loans is in pursuit of 326,484 per cent. Employers and SMEs must be freed from the high debt coil. To this end, the restructuring of financial debts under appropriate conditions should be implemented within a mechanism based on volunteering. This will reduce the frozen loans of banks, increase the quality of the assets, significantly reduce the savings of SMEs and tradesmen, allowing our entrepreneur to participate in active production again. Our movers go back every day, they can't pay their insurance premiums and taxes, many of them have their final struggles. The driver's shop, whose earnings have fallen in the face of taxes, premiums and high fuel prices, has become unable to bring bread to their families. The driver's shop, who does freight and passenger transport, must also be given non-tax-free fuel. The driver's shop must be given tax reductions and ease, rights to wear out, authority documents should be removed from burdens and torture. The confusion in the application must be resolved, and the use and unfair competition of documents should be avoided beyond the scope of the purpose. The shop's bonus rate must be reduced, and the employer's minimum wage allowance must also be given to the shopkeeper. The minimum income reduction in income tax should also be applied for the tradesman. Our tradesman has legitimate demands for resolving inequality in the social security system, maintaining norm and standard unity. The bonus must be equal in the number of days and pensions. In the past, pre-employed trades should be registered and registered, counted as service, and allowed to borrow past services. Apprentices and internships should also be counted from the service, which should be based on the start date of insurance. Again, 100 per cent interest must be removed due to the debt left behind for a day if the SEC bonus debts are not paid. For example, if a four-person employer or a small tradesman does not pay close to 1,800 liras on December 31st, the interest comes to about 1,000 euros on January 1st. Our government must also take careful steps in this matter. Again, with the official access to the presidential government system and co-direction of domestic and external focus with the Republic Alliance, efforts to move the hostility of Turkey forward and to a higher phase will not benefit any low ememe. Those who dig our country's pits will fall where they dig. Locals and foreigners who think they can corner Turkey with political, economic and diplomatic attacks will fail again, and they will be defeated again. The main purpose of the so-called sanctions of the United States and the European Union is President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Turkish Republic and the Turkish nation. The Turkish tradition is an integral part of the Turkish country. I respectfully and gratefully remember all our martyrs for the sake of the country and the country. I wish our 2019 budget well for our country and the Turkish nation. May God be with you, and may your wealth be a prayer of parents. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0274par0170	Thank you. In line with Eskişehir MP Metin Nurullah Sazak. Here you go, Mr. Sazak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0275par0175	Dear Mr. President, before I begin my words, I, Rize Police Commissioner Altug Verdi, who was killed yesterday in an unfortunate attack, and I, in his person, remember all our heroic martyrs with mercy and gratitude. And I wish our wounded officers a speedy recovery. I wish patience to the entire police department, especially his family, and to the Turkish nation of Necip. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group for the Ministry of Commerce budget of 2019. I salute the grand jury. The budget proposal for 2019 is the first budget of the presidential government system. It is important that the presidential government system operates on a healthy ground with all its institutions and institutions. Today I remind you once again that public opinion should be shed light on the difference between the local production logo, which has been started in price labels by the Ministry as the beginning of Tutum, Investment and Turkish Property Week, and the importance of this week's public awareness. The Ministry of Customs and Tekel and the Ministry of Economy were merged under the roof of the Ministry of Commerce. After this merger, the Ministry of Trade has taken on a stronger structure and has put an end to our country's commercial policies. At a time when global economic expansion evolved to shrink, our country's politics and economy were tried to be shaped by external interference, and it's still going on. It is joyful and hopeful that the Ministry of Trade retaliates with the same additional taxes to 22 different crop groups, which are imposed on our country by the United States, and that more than 65 percent of the budget in 2019 is earmarked as support for our industry through current transfer. The Ministry's Hellal Accreditation Agency, the TURQUALTY and EXIMBANK should not ignore the ministry's positive efforts towards exports. From here, a period of movement has entered the world's trade towards artificial intelligence, the industry has entered 4.0, e-commerce products are delivered to every part of the world by storage and cargo. Two large virtual companies in the world are now in Turkey and are trading without creating production and employment. In the world's trade, about six trillion dollars a day exchange hands with digital money markets. You have to think of trade universally. A Belt Road Project, which is the modern application of the Silk Road in the 21st century, covers 60 countries, will form the backbone of the world's trade when it comes to life. Despite efforts to block the dominant forces, this project must be put to work. When the project takes place, trains will be used as the main transport vehicle, railways will become vital. Following this prediction, Eskişehir would have to be motivated to build Eskişehir's railway base by exploiting information and equipment and experience in the rail systems of Eskişehir and ÜLOMSAS. This is an opportunity to support the development of both our country and the development of Eskişehir. With the economic negativity, the cost of wooing has increased, and the tradesman, artist, COBI and agricultural producer have been exposed to debt helix. The main pencils such as raw materials, intermediaries, rent, energy, insurance premiums, seeds, fuel and irrigation should be supported, and local trade should be moved by guarantees to our manufacturer. Traders, artists, COBI and agricultural producers need to increase the level of technology use and facilitate access to information; promotions through written and visual media should be supported. So the quality of the product will rise and the front of exports will be opened. For the country's economy to be restored, a national industry and trade policy must be set. We need to raise and employ imports and export engineers who will support this policy in universities and intermediaries that specialize in foreign trade and secondary education. In order to increase national income, the EXIMBANK, which belongs to the Ministry of Commerce, should increase its support for high-tech production and exporting companies. High-tech products with 3.5 per cent of exports should be increased further. Companies such as Turkey's high-tech export leader, my constituency district, Eskişehir and TUSAS Motor Industry, should be modeled on this. Turkey's foreign capital investors' raw materials and intermediary products must be prevented from supplying our country from the outside, reducing the current deficit and improving the local industry. With the work of improving the quality of raw materials and intermediaries common in our country, high quality final alloys must be produced and the GDP must be raised and the final product must be targeted for exporting. 70 percent of the world's boron reserve is located in Eskişehir and around the country. These are examples of the process, such as being absorbed into the rebar of this mine and increasing the hardness of iron. As you know, after the June 24th elections, there was an artificial increase in foreign intervention and foreign exchange rates, without delay, and the decline was ignored when the currencies began to slacken and fall. In order for our people not to be victims, these opportunists must not be given the opportunity and the Ministry of Commerce must increase the measures and controls needed. As a shortcut to preventing all this economic harm, we believe trade should be done with the national currency of 193 states around the world by reaching an agreement or exchange of goods and services. Trade with sovereign currency has brought the world a system of exploitation rather than prosperity. In addition, the customs union signed ahead of full membership in the European Union, where Britain is on its way out today, must be updated under the current conditions of national interests. By the end of the year 2018, the highest annual export target in the history of the republic would be $170 billion, and with our own internal dynamics, with national solutions, we'd have economic prosperity as a Turkish nation. Dear Regents, I would also like to point out that there will always be good and evil, enmity that begins with Abel and Cain, and there is a quarrel between the cross and the crescent and the halaline yesterday, and there is a constant.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0276par0189	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0275par0190	I'm not talking about the events that are trying to prevent economic development, the corruption, the people who are left behind by terrorism -- I'm saying that everyone who supports and benefits is free of human qualities and values. The fate of people and groups waiting to receive political and economic gains from terrorism and corruption is like collecting wood in the dark at night, and they don't know what they're going to get. As I put an end to my words here, I would like to say that today's world trade wars have also taken place in exports, and that the budget of 2019 will be a blessing to the Turkish nation, and I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0276par0193	Thank you. Now it's time for Sivas MP Ahmet Özyürek. Here you go, Mr. Özyürek. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0277par0198	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the meeting of the Association of Competitives in 2019. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the National Movement Party has been closely monitoring the annual budgets our nation sees as its right, sharing with the public what it has seen in practice and results. The Competitiveness Association, which we are talking about, is estimated to be $96.1 million, with an increase of 13.8 per cent compared to 2018. The 2019 budget is also seen to be earmarked for employee costs of 59 per cent, 15.1 per cent for purchases of goods and services, and 8 per cent for social security and state premiums. In addition, 10 per cent of the institution's budget consists of current transfers and 8 per cent of capital costs. As the figures show, there is the lowest budgetary board of competition within the regulatory, regulatory institutions, including the newly established. However, the current annual budgets are expected to be more satisfactory, given the workload and the area followed by the institution. Dear lawmakers, in today's world, the growth, growth of the private sector, and the speed of technology are so high that states and legal systems are struggling to keep up with these rapid changes. In this context, one of the most important things that makes market economy effective is the Competition Committee. It is possible to present and provide quality products and services within the market mechanism, to continue the technological progress of the tools used. Actors who suffer from unfair and deceptive influences of competition need a top-market authority to protect their rights. In light of these facts, the Competition Foundation has been established in our country to ensure competition, protection, and development in all the goods and services sectors. Since its establishment, the institution has blocked numerous monopoly formations and has practically restored business life to a new level. The Competition Association made 353 final decisions in the period 1 January-30 November 2018. The 353 final decision consists of 54 per cent of competition violations, 58 per cent of mergers, takeovers and privatisation decisions, 12 per cent of humane detection and exemption applications, and 6 per cent of the other category. On the other hand, the institution was fined 352.2m euros in administrative fines at the same time, while 23 investigations were completed and 22 new investigations were launched during this period. Dear lawmakers, it is a fact accepted today that competitive law, as well as unfair competition law, serves the purpose of providing free and honest competition in the market. Competitiveness is also important at the point of the establishment and development of a competitive culture in Turkey. We, the National Movement Party, feel that the institution's activities should be supported. On the other hand, it is important that the institution take initiative in order to sustain, improve, and protect our angel investors. The Presidential Annual Programme 2019 also includes key measures for which the Competitive Association has been assigned. In particular, the institution's activities to monitor agricultural input and product price fluctuations, maintain competition, and address market defects should be prioritized. In this regard, we would like to have priorities mentioned in the strategy plan for 2019-2023, where the institution has been working for a long time. Again, we find it important that the markets are open to competition, there are no competitive practices, and there are advanced measures to increase social prosperity. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's meeting of competitive law took place many years ago.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0278par0208	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0277par0209	In the meantime, it would be safe to say that the practice of the Competitiveness Agency is above Turkey's standards. It is our duty to increase the competitive institution's role in the country's economy, to ensure that Turkey becomes an institution of reference to industrial policy in this way. In this regard, the Competitiveness Agency must make a quick decision that will pave the way for entrepreneurs especially to support innovation. To address the negative effects of trade wars on consumers, the analysis of competition should be given more space in favour of consumers. And finally, he has to be able to make the necessary attempts to explain himself to the public in the face of public corruption. With these thoughts, I would like to call upon the Competitiveness Foundation's budget for 2019 to bring blessings to the institution, to our business, and to our country. I salute our great nation and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0279par0213	İstanbul MP Hayati Arkaz is next. Here you go, Mr. Arkad. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0280par0217	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Hellal Accreditation Agency in the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Talks. I salute the council and the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, our share in the world is 6.5 per cent and 7 per cent due to studies launched in 2018 under the presidential decree and within the Hellal Accreditation Agency, which operates in the Ministry of Commerce and in the private sector. Given Turkey's influence and relations in Islamic geography, this ratio is far below our country's potential. The growth rate of the Hellenic food industry in the world is making this reality even more public. The Hellal Acreditation Agency will help mutual recognition of the legal documents, which are under the supervision of legal documentation agencies and providing trust with documents organised by these organisations. He will conduct all kinds of scientific and technical examinations of the well-being of the institution, and he will act to enhance the importance of the institution. He will conduct research and broadcasts in this area, where he will organise conventions, seminars, and so on. It is the only institution in Turkey that will be able to assess the competence and validity of the documents they've issued, which will make sure that they act according to national and international standards. In the United States, the EU and China, giant companies are competing for a halal food certificate, not just in the Islamic countries, because according to today's data, the halal food reaches 2 billion people around the world. I repeat, it reaches 2 billion people. Malaysia is doing serious research on halal-certified products, Indonesia is creating healthy market data and doing polls. The countries, such as Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, are ambitious in the matter of halal meat. In the Hellenic food trade, certified products in the world market are around 15%. In the coming years, it is intended to increase and increase by 5 to 10 per cent. Again, it is observed that the global market is approaching $1 trillion in halal certified products. In the near future, it's going to exceed $2 trillion in data that we have. There is no obstacle to Turkey being first in the halal food market. On the contrary, it has potential, historical, cultural, economic, and political advantages. There have been polls at four different markets that sell halal food certificates based in Istanbul. According to these polls, over 400 people have been examined, including 221 women and 179 men. These studies have shown that married women, or families, are finally paying attention to halal food, but unfortunately, singles are low. Especially the lowest percentage is the student cut. The student body doesn't pay attention to good food, which is sad for us, so I'll tell you this in advance. It is clear that both the state and the private sector of the health-food certificate should be boosted. In addition to our relevant bureaucracy, trade and industry rooms are both essential and a national duty to our economy to direct the private sector into intensive information and incentive activities. At the same time, one of the four tourists who came to Istanbul this year is Arab. If that happens, especially if we calculate that 25 percent of tourists in tourist areas are Arab, then both our Ministry of Tourism and our mufti must operate in those areas at a greater level, and it is also incumbent on civil society organisations and our municipalities. Dear lawmakers, what I'm trying to sum up is that the good food is within the world's volume of commerce parameters, which we see as a total mobilization as a state and private sector. This campaign must be thought of as a campaign for both domestic and exports, and Turkey's trade share in Islamic geography should be increased. In addition, the helal certificate is not only in the food industry; in products such as textiles, medical, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, travel and tourism, the world must be synchronized and parallel with it, and the private sector should be encouraged in this area. May the Lord of the heavens and the earth give every soul its lawful sustenance, and its lawful sustenance, and its lawful remembrance. I salute the High Council, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0281par0227	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the final word belongs to Heromarash MP Sefer Aycan. Here you go, Mr. Aycan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0282par0232	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Hellal Accreditation Agency. I salute you all. The good product can be described in the simplest way: it's a product produced according to Islamic rules. It includes food, food additives, textiles, clothing, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics. These, of course, are very important matters. In particular, food and food additives are directly related to human health. Food is all the ingredients that are necessary for humans to receive and to feed, so it directly affects health. Food shortages are the problem, food surplus is the problem, food types are the problem. Food itself affects health. In addition, food additives, or food contaminations, hormones, enzymes, medicines, are also issues that affect health directly. In particular today, all foods, wrapped foods, are particularly food additives, and this is a very important health issue, and I will come back to that. Other than that, the things that people use are very important to their health. For example, the cream used as hand cream has estrogen, and this estrogen is also found in foods, and it affects health. For example, recently, breast cancers have increased both in Turkey and in the world, and perhaps the most important cause of this increase is estrogen, which is in creams or foods, and today breast cancer is seen at an early age, even in men. This shows another dimension of the problem. The concept of "Helal" is also an important issue for the National Movement Party, an important issue for the entire Islamic world. That's why we find these studies positive. But the problem is not solved. In fact, there is no problem with food health, food safety, and property safety, as well as new problems and new complications. Just because it's a halal product, obviously there's no pork products in it, doesn't mean this food is healthy, there are much more important problems. For example, the additives I just mentioned are in all foods, and these additives are chemicals, which can be used as poisons or as a halal product. It's the measure of a chemical between a poison and a cure. When you increase this dose, it's poison, and when you reduce the dose, it's medicine, it's good. I think it's a much more important problem for him to have food supplements in all foods and to consume them every day. Other than that, foods have a concept of organic food, much more important than the concept of halal food. Organic food is what is organic, which is a separate topic of discussion. Or there are concepts on the food that are produced according to the GMP. Another issue of confusion also includes documents mix-ups such as Turkish Food Codex, TSE standard and ISO document. Does it now mean that food is safe to carry any of these documents? Or is food that doesn't have these documents not reliable? For him, as I said, the problem has been unresolved, causing new problems, new complications. That's why we have things to do. This is what I'm going to say as the National Movement Party, and I'm going to make my suggestions. Especially in terms of consumers and sellers, we need to prevent chaos. What will the consumer trust, what will he believe? Good stuff means there's no pork products in it, yes, is that enough? It's not. What are we waiting for, what are we looking for? In this regard, we need an arrangement that tells us what's in it, not what's important, but what's not. This should be labeled. It should be readable, understandable, simple, and direct warning that the amount of product in it, the calories, the health impact, who should use it and not use it. Other than that, we want food to be built into a tracking system. In particular -- living -- for example -- products like shoes or purses -- were bought from a country, entered our country, and then found that they were not healthy, but they were used in the market. So we need to set up a tracking system. What we mean by the tracking system is that it's being monitored from entering our homeland to its final use. Yeah, I'm running out of time. Another... of course, we specifically want market control analysis, we want lab support for this, and we think the personnel equipment should be increased.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0283par0240	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0282par0241	But it causes unfair competition not only for consumers, but also for sellers. Especially those who sell these products are able to sell them for higher prices and gain unfairly. Malls, grocery chains, supermarkets have an unfair rivalry. Against that, we need to protect our shop, our grocery store, our grocery store, our butcher. These are our middle poles. The other issue is that there is injustice between our local tradesman and Syrian tradesman after the Syrian business market, and there is unfair competition. There is trouble here in Kahramanmarash, and in all the southern provinces. For him, we need provisions that support the tradesmen in this way, preventing unfair competition. I'm calling from here, especially to the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Agriculture: I want the National Movement Party's recommendations on this issue to be immediately supported and implemented. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0284par0246	Thank you. Friends, this concludes the talks on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. According to 60, Mr. Taytak has a brief request for words. Here you go, Mr. Taytak.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0285par0252	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm receiving messages from our temporary Koran instructors serving under the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Our interim Koran course instructors, who have been more than 70 points in the provinces, are also suffering from the lack of full deposit of the SGO sac from the days of actual work during the week. Victimship is not only that, of course, but it also extends their retirement time. There are no job guarantees because they're temporary. I'd like to go through some very difficult process of elimination and ask for a study on the recruitment of our citizens, who teach temporary Koran courses. I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0286par0255	Thank you. Friends, again, Mr. Enginyurt. Mr. Enginyurt has a request according to the Civil Charter 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0287par0259	Mr. President, since there's been no renovation of the power poles and cables in the military province for nearly 30 years, there's been no maintenance repairs, I told the Minister at the Plan and Budget Commission, and I repeat -- especially in winter, the power cuts are very frequent. If possible, I'd like to ask that the interested firm be treated with sensitivity in the Army for the maintenance that needs to be done every five years, and that the power cuts be removed, and I'd like to pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0286par0260	Thank you. Dear friends, there are representatives of political parties that don't have the group in our General Assembly, and I'm going to promise them under the Civil Code 60; we can extend it, we can add it. Now, first, Afyonkarahisar MP and Democratic Party President Gültekin Uysal... Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0288par0265	Mr. President, very dear MPs, first of all, I salute you all. Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, along with its subsidiaries, the Ministry of Commerce. We'd like to wish that, as in the model of presidents after the change of government system, budget production spreads to a seven-and-a-half-eight-month period, the institution, the directorate of general office, if we could discuss all of this more on the floor of the General Assembly. I would especially like to express my opinion today about the total mining sector, formerly the General Directorate of Mines, and the General Directorate of Mines and Petroleum Affairs, which corresponds to about one-eightyth of a percent export in Turkey's exports. Over the course of fifteen years, we've seen processes in which both ministries and general administrations have been merged and broken up, sometimes referred to as change. Finally, we see the Department of Energy, after this system change, combined with the Department of Mines in the past, then with the Department of Mines, then with the Joint General Manager, and now with Oil Affairs. I, for one, would like to point out that even though it's in the hands of the Department of Energy as part of its occupational field, I don't think that the merger of two different General Directors will be very effective. In recent years, changes in the Mining Law in particular have made the mining sector unpredictable. In this regard, a new proposal, which changed the Mining Law on 7/12/2018, was submitted to the Grand National Assembly. In my assessments with the representatives of the Union, sector representatives say they were faced with an offer within the logic of this process. In a country with chronic foreign trade deficits, chronic current deficits, and the obligation to activate its resources at a maximum level, I feel that this process, together with all its partners, should be preferred to the process of law-making.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0289par0270	Mr. Easy, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0288par0271	In particular, the delays in the permit process, which entered into force on 16 June 2012, also led to the decline of the sector's potential growth rate. At a point where the state of law and democracy, which we all need to be very sensitive to today, is now the most fundamental entry of economies, the executive ministry, but the decision by the State of State, unfortunately, has come to fruition in the office of such an impact analysis, which has been delayed by long-term investments in the prime minister's body through the commission until the June 24th elections. In particular, the turmoil in world economies, commercial wars, regional wars affected exports.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0289par0274	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0288par0275	In 2013, it reached $2 billion, 186 million in exports, which went backwards due to the factors I was trying to count, and today, as of 2017, it has about $2 billion, $60 million in exports. I'm also concerned that the industry that needs morale and support in this environment is faced with a law proposal that has been converted into the penal code. In particular, there have been serious increases in tuition in arrangements made within the last five, eight years of time envelopes, comparing the SME companies that make up 98 per cent of the sector. The price of registration has been increased to 700 per cent in search licenses, 100 per cent in business licenses, depending on the size of mines. From this point of view, when we take this essay in front of us, as the development plan has shown, especially when the registration security needs to be strengthened, with this final offer being reduced...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0289par0277	And finally, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0288par0278	With the rise of registration costs and state rights rates, the possibility of possible and possible reserves, especially in the area of registration, is soon to be transformed into visible reserves. In this respect, I'm regrettably suggesting a target at the point of raising the gross plan and mega-proposals at 1 per cent of the GDP to a point of 5 per cent, while the actual practices and regulations are in the opposite direction. In this regard, I wish to make the sector predictable with transparent practices, to increase registration security, to open the way for the sector, to be one of Turkey's top priority agendas, all of the General Assembly, I salute you valued MPs.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0289par0280	Now, as part of the Interior Charter 60, I pledge to Vice-Pharaoh MP Abdulkadir Karaduman. Here you go, Mr. Blackduman.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0290par0283	Mr. President, thank you, I salute each and every one of you with respect and conversation. I have made a promise to express our concerns, concerns, and wishes regarding these budget issues. In particular today's period when corruption, waste and rant are at the peak of economic crises, we must make sure that we can look to our future in a country with confidence and hope for our nation. However, budget talks have turned into an arena in the shadow of past accounts, political quarrels, with a very far-reaching lecture on the reality of the country, covering the work, sweat, and the future. Now, after seven years in the war today, we have the world's 10th highest inflation. Since January, Turkish lira has lost a 45 per cent value. The citizen's debt to banks increased to 403 billion lira levels. In particular, in this country today, there are 65 million credit cards every day in this country, where new mosques, Koran courses and madrases are opened. Again, the total privatisations in our country from 1986 to 2003 amounted to $8 billion, while the privatisations in the last 14 years amounted to over $60 billion. However, since 2003, gross foreign debt has increased from $130 billion to 453 billion. Of course, when these are invisible, we try to approach the end of a budget, covering the reality of the economic crisis in the eyes of the nation. Now, we'd like to ask: What is in this budget for 4 million unemployed people predicted for 2019? What's in this budget for farmers whose debt has increased by 830 per cent over the last decade to 100 billion dollars? What's in this budget for teachers who commit suicide because they're not assigned?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0291par0289	Mr. Blackduman, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0290par0290	What's in this budget for unemployed, unrefunded unemployed people who are unemployed because of the companies that declare Concordato? What's in this budget for young people whose futures have been stolen by interviews, exams, and one in five registered as unemployed? Now it seems that there is no pension in this budget. In this budget, there are no minimum wage, no officers, no workers, no pensioners. There are no tradesmen and artists trying to earn a living. There are no farmers or producers, and unfortunately there are no young and unfortunately no women. Like every year, the lion's share will be transferred to a few happy minorities this year, as it is every year.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0291par0293	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0290par0294	Again, the interest lobby and banks, which the government has not dropped from the tongue, will win, the numbers are the most obvious indicator. Now we have to make a budget here so the outside forces won't push our patience again. We need to make a budget so that we can apply the waitress state concept instead of the guardian government. We need to make a budget so that we can show everyone that the capital holders of this state are not the state of the wealthy, but the state of the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor. I would like to put an end to my words by expressing one last truth that I have seen in these meetings when I complete my words. It seems that this budget is not the public budget, it's the budget of the budget. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Apparently, this budget is the budget of the palace and the rich, not the poor. Thank you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0292par0301	Thank you. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 Dear friends, now in favor of the individuals, Düzce MP Ayşe Kşar... Here you go, Mr. Kestir.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0293par0343	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, I offer my mercy and my condolences to the martyred Chief of Police, Allah, and to our beloved nation. Energy is an important factor for developing countries as it directly affects the welfare of society. To provide safe, clean, adequate and cheap energy comes from the basic working areas of the country's executives. Population growth, industrial and economic growth continues to increase the demand for energy in our country. In addition to existing resources, the maximum use of alternative and renewable energy and our domestic coal potential has been the priority of the AK PARTI governments. Mr. President, the annual supply of natural gas, which was 500 million cubic metres in 1987, reached 50 billion cubic metres today. In 2002, the natural gas used only in our five cities will reach all 81 counties as of early 2019. As of the end of October, 434 districts and cities have been provided with natural gas. Two of the districts and towns that have recently reached natural gas are the Yuğulca district of my city, Düzce. On behalf of our countrymen, I give thanks to Mr. President and our ministers. The spread of natural gas is not limited to the settlements, especially in OSBs, the gas supply continues. I'm sure all lawmakers on this matter are proud of our country and its provinces. Dear lawmakers, we are all proud of the first deep-driving ship of our country, the first deep-driving ship of 16 ships in its class. Barbaros Iştin Pasha and Oruç Reis, our ships are constantly working and combing the seas. We'll find out if there's a Turkey that's been able to give our children energy independence. Dear lawmakers, environmental and energy is the soft topic for politics. When we look at arguments, the type of energy that is not contested is almost extinct. Unfortunately in Turkey, the most renewable type of energy is contested. No hydroelectric power plants, but we're also against nuclear power plants, and they're against it. There are two nuclear plants in Paris, one of which is 70 kilometers away, one of which is 60 miles [100 km] from London, one of which is 50 km [50 km] away. France receives more than 70 per cent of power supply through 58 plants from nuclear energy. Also, let there be no coal-powered thermal plants. It's tried. Dear lawmakers, the countries of the world are taking advantage of their own coal, and South Africa even extracts 90 percent of its coal and uses it herself. Germany has decided to increase its use rate of 44% to 51. They say we don't want solar energy or wind panels. How realistic is it that those who consume energy with all their comfort, those who stress for phone charge, oppose a sustainable environment and renewable power plants produced by high technology? We're going to invest in the safe energy supply and protect the environment, and we're going to do it like any other world country. Dear lawmakers, the total share of renewable energy is 13.5% in European Union countries, while Turkey has about 26 per cent. EC PARTI policies aim to increase it further. With the participation of our President and Russian President of Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, Turkey's first nuclear power plant was established on 3 April 2013. The study of feasibility for Sinop Nuclear Plant continues. Our goal is to use nuclear technology not only to produce energy, but also to work in medicine, agriculture and space. In energy technologies, Turkey's move to settle in renewable energy will not slow down. We're going to continue to invest in our country, which is high-intensity and high-investigation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I put an end to my words, I wish that the budget of 2019 would be good for the Turkish nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0294par0355	Thank you. Now, dear friends, on behalf of the administration, I will make a promise to our ministers. You know, they have the opportunity to use a total of 70 minutes, but our ministers thought they could add up to about 40 minutes each. We'll be able to make an addition if we have to. First, our Trade Minister Rusar Pekcan. Here you go, Mr. Pekcan.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0295par0360	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, I would like to ask Mr. Altuğ Verdi, who was killed in the line of duty, Allah's mercy, his family's condolences and patience. I salute you, and wish that the budget law of 2019 would be a blessing in the name of our nation and our country. Along with the presidential government system, Customs and Trade and Economy Ministrys have merged the name of the Ministry of Trade, thus creating an effective model where domestic and foreign trade is managed by a single-handed view. In this new era, we continue to work tirelessly as an institution that serves 81 million in the conclusion and solution-oriented understanding that our President points to. Recently, global trade wars and conservative trade rhetorics, uncertainty about the Brexit process, tightening financial conditions and geopolitical developments have come to the forefront as low-densed risk elements of global trade. Under these risks, global trade, which grew 4.7 per cent in size in 2017, is expected to grow by 3.9 per cent in 2018, according to World Trade Organization estimates. Despite all these risks related to global trade, Turkey is preparing to break the record of republican history in exports. As of November 2018, we aim for Turkey to reach $170 billion exports at the end of the year, reaching $168.1 billion annual exports. In the first 11 months of 2018, our exports increased by 7.7 per cent, with 154.2 billion dollars, while our imports were under 2 per cent of last year with 206.5 billion dollars in the same period. So in 11 months, our foreign trade deficit dropped at a significant rate of 22.7 per cent, with 52.2 billion dollars, while our exports were up to 74.7 per cent. In the first ten months of the year 2018, our service revenues increased by 10.6 per cent from the same period of the previous year to 41.5 billion dollars. On the other hand, if exports of goods and services are assessed together, exports of 186.1 billion dollars during January-October 2018, imports of 203 billion dollars, exports of imports have increased by 91.3 per cent. Dear lawmakers, our ministry's main goal is to raise our country to the level of high-income countries by increasing the global competitiveness of Turkish exports and the value of adding products to more revenue than the world markets. It's to strengthen the foundations of a modern market economy by creating conditions that will bring prosperity to all of our people from domestic trade producers to consumers. In the customs process, using tools such as full digitalization, which is a requirement of our age, it is to ensure that foreign trade services are efficient, fast, high standard. In this framework, we strive hard to be among the leading countries where trade is made more competitive, faster, easier, and safer. In this direction, the World Bank's Doing Business Report, according to the previous report on foreign trade, won 29 rows, raising us to 42nd. We expect to start at COBI level and support our exporter at every level around $2 billion and $34 million this year. We give these supports to areas that will directly contribute to Turkey's export potential. In 2018, we had our firms interview for nearly 16,000 jobs with general trade delegations and acquisitions committee programs. We support 173 brands of our 162 firms at the TURQUEALY Programme, which aims to extract world brands from Turkey. We will continue to support this important program by adding new markets and new firms to today's conditions. In addition to Turkish trade centres in Dubai, Tehran, New York, Chicago, London, we plan to establish Turkish trade centers at 35 new locations focused on the region and demand. With a new arrangement to facilitate our exporters' access to global markets, we have authorized a total of 16,340 exporters from our export company. For China, Russia, India, Mexico, we'll concentrate our activities with the action plans we've prepared for the sector and the state. It's easy to express all our support to the exporter in a simple language. Gov. We've activated the tr site. As part of the current company visits, we traveled through the province, listening to the problems of our exporters and continue to listen. We organized foreign trade information seminars and built export support offices in 28 rooms. In the first ten months of the year 2018, the part of our exports, which was subject to the measures of trade policy due to protective policies in international trade, increased to 8.7 per cent. However, in the year 2018, our exports increased by 7.7% in 11 months. In global trade, taking necessary measures against the unfair practices of our country is one of our priorities. In this regard, we responded to all measures taken by the United States against our country in exactly the same time and the same time. We applied to the World Trade Organization in one day to activate the necessary mechanisms. In the last three months, working with a professional team within our Ministry, we have won two lawsuits against the World Trade Organization. Again, we're already in over 70 crop groups using anti-damping and subsidies against 25 countries. As of protection measures, our country is ranked third among the members of the World Trade Organization. The importance of corporations such as EXIMBANK is growing in the world's trade. At the end of 2018 years, EXIMBANK will increase financing by 12 per cent from the previous year to $44 billion. As of the end of 2018 years, the number of exporters increased by 16 per cent year-on-year to 11,000 per cent, while 70 per cent of our exporters are the KOBİ, and we support the increase of KOBİ. One of the most important gates to exports in our country is free zones. Our goal is to set up private zones of residency, as has recently been the trend of increasing across the world, and especially encourage software, IT, high-tech exports in these areas. We use trade diplomacy tools effectively to deepen economic co-operation. In this case, we had 131 bilateral meetings with 21 countries in 2018. We conducted an economic work forum with Africa, and 27 countries from Africa and the deputy minister attended the forum that we conducted in October. We continue our talks with our contacts to update the customs union, as well as with NGOs and their shareholders and business partners. In order to increase exports and strengthen our global competitiveness, the talks with 17 countries-nation groups, including the most important countries in the world, continue. In accordance with the economic requirements of imports, we also refer to a different importance to its governance with rational policies. We're implementing multi-directional, dynamic, consistent import policies. Dear lawmakers, we use our time's technological advances to make our customs modernized by an efficient, fast, solution-oriented approach based on digitalization. We opened the way for legal trade, set up illegal trade. We have no compromises in this matter. Our motto is to be the easiest, most reliable trade address. Our work on modernisation, expansion of customs doors, digitization and related configuration continues. We are determined to continue our work at the point where both the customs administration and those in charge are taking action in the physical environment to the electronic environment. We're doing one-by-one projects of our container and Harbor Tracking Systems, and we're trying to expand it throughout Turkey. With his authorized position of duty, we offered our firms the advantage of competitiveness on the basis of faster, more reliable customs transactions. These companies carry out 30 per cent of our exports, 38 per cent of our imports. With proper customs, we've arranged for our exporters to perform customs procedures at the facility. With Customs Tracking and Analytic Performance Program, we have effectively established the monitoring of each stage of customs operations, and we are implementing transparency customs. Thanks to our investments in life and electronic systems, from 2018 Christmas to today, we have seized 45 tons of drugs, 14.6 million tons of illegal cigarettes, and 11,500 tons of fuel. The tenders for goods and vehicles, which have been liquidated in customs, have come into play through the E-ihale mobile application system, which has been offered to use all of our citizens, who are transparent, involved and who are 18 years old with an exemplary model, and as of today we have 250,000 bidders. Dear lawmakers, we have prevented 14 million subjects from entering our country in the last year's import security audits, representing about 500 million products. In September 2018, we online activated the Untrusted Product Information System, where products that threaten consumer health and safety were declared. We've launched the Hellal Accreditation Agency, considering a growing demand for helal product service, which is on a global scale of 3.9 trillion dollars in markets. We've implemented a mobile system of complaints about unfair price hikes in consumer protection. We've allowed trade record managers to have one contact with corporate companies to facilitate trade. We have established the Central Record Recording System, with all commercial registration transactions involved in the company's trade transactions being done electronically. We've reached 3,200,967 tons of our fully licensed storage capacity. We've established the Turkish stock exchange. We'll be operating until the harvest period of 2019. We began the work on the establishment of the Retail Information System, in an effort to effectively perform the necessary operations related to retail businesses. In order to increase the share of electronic trade, to address security concerns in e-cartere, to improve the quality of service, we have activated the Trust Mark System. In order to facilitate commercial actors' access to financing, we obtained the Portal Rehni Law. We continue to work to solve problems for the tradesman and our artist, to ensure that they produce greater value for our economy and exports. In this area, 1 billion 472 million sources were earmarked to solve the financial problems of our tradesman, and 202,190 tradesmen, 17 billion, 470 million euro loans were used for the artist. The 2019 budget will set aside an interest-support loan worth about 1 billion,880 million euros. In order to solve our artist's problems, we provided them with interest reductions in their debt on default. Other than that, we've organized e-trade trainings and we're going to continue to organise information meetings for the tradesman and artist in order to increase the use of technology and direct e-export. As a ministry, we have completed the upgrades of the Competition Law, the current conditions, the EU competitive law, which constitutes 70 per cent of foreign direct investments in our country, in 2003, 2008, 2010. In this part of my speech, I'd like to talk about our goals and projects for 2019. Our exports will increase by 7.1 per cent, reaching 182 billion dollars, the expectation of the new economic programme, our imports will be under 244 billion dollars in this goal; we will also increase our production capacity and competitiveness as we take developmental measures towards our foreign trade in line with these goals. We will speed up our trade diplomacy, organise more trade and trade delegations, diversify markets, continue our deepening activity in current markets, reveal new strategies for access to new markets in targets and priority countries. By strengthening the trade attaches with local teams, we'll make them more efficient, more active, more dynamic, more visible. We aim to hold KEK and JETCO meetings with twenty countries in 2019. China, India, Mexico, Russia, we're going to implement action plans to enter the market. Japan aims to complete the Sta talks with Ukraine, to complete the talks on the other STA (STA). By altering the nature of our production and exports and by supporting technology, software, IT exports in our special zones, we will increase our support to increase the weight of exports of products involving technology, innovation and design. Under state assistance, we will continue to support our firms in accordance with the competitive conditions of the day. We will continue to defend the rights of exporters on national and international platforms against the measures of trade policy launched in various countries for Turkish export products. We will promote our country's culture and historical wealth by participating in 2019 EXPO Beijing, which took place in April-October 2019, with the participation of over 100 countries and international organisations. We'll follow every step of the import with precision and take the necessary precautions. In order to improve the credibility and quality of products on the subject of foreign trade, we will conduct product safety and control activities in the most efficient way. We will complete our work on product safety and technical arrangements, harmonising EU legislation, modernizing our product safety system. By continuing to increase the consciousness of our consumers and companies' consumer rights, we will continue our understanding of conscious consumers, discreet traders. We will continue effectively implementing support programmes for service sectors by our Ministry for sustainable exports to international competitiveness and service exports to the service sectors. We will continue the work of setting up the retail Information System for the closure of retail businesses with opening and activities, in order to deliver, assess, provide data bases for these businesses, and provide information sharing. We're going to make sure that all agricultural goods in licensed warehouses are made from one platform, fast and reliable, in electronics. We're going to create the infrastructure of the karacode system in bonds, which are one of the real sector's major funding tools, and we're going to make sure that the square code system in bonds is active and reliable in commercial life. We're going to make a radical transformation in this area by effectively implementing regulations on the immovable and second-hand transport trade. We will ensure that the wholesale state of wholesale foods, vegetable fruits, meat products, dairy products, water products, bee products, cutting plants, are transformed into wholesale food centres with modern service facilities where trade can also be done, and the increase in the market share of manufacturers' organisations, the tax advantage of producers' organisations, 30 per cent of the dissolution of businesses in the collective and a 75 per cent discount lease on workplaces. We're getting positive results from our investments in human resources and technology on the country's security and economy and community health. We're using the most modern and cutting-edge technology in black doors, airports, seaports. In 2019, we will continue with determination to establish any new systems and equipment that will facilitate trade, prevent illegal goods traffic, and increase our technological capacity at our customs gates. While we continue to facilitate and accelerate legal trade, we will focus on potential threats and effectively fight illegal trade. We're going to increase co-op awareness and awareness across the country, strengthen the institutional structures of current cooperatives, encourage the establishment of cooperatives in new areas, encourage women's cooperatives to contribute cooperatives to the country's economy. We will increase the total funding of EXIMBANK by 10 per cent, raising $48.4 billion, providing funding for 27 per cent of our country's exports. We aim to increase the number of companies by 12 per cent to 12.320, and we aim to increase the share of the SME by 70 per cent. The budget for 2019, to be used for the purpose and activities of our Ministry of Commerce, is 5 billion 693 million and 573 TL. 1 billion 328 million, 424,000 euros of this amount have been earmarked to personnel costs, 207 million, 138 000 TLK premiums, 238 million 301 000 TL of goods and services costs, 140 million 549000 TL in capital costs, 1 million euros divided into capital transfers, and 3 billion 778 million 161,000,000 euros are earmarked to transfers, so to a large extent of exporters and trade contractors. All of these funds will be used to give more support to all of our partners, especially our exports, who have taken over the engine service when we reach our goals. I wish you all the best in our ministry's budget.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0296par0400	Thank you, Minister. Your timing was perfect, thank you. Now Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Fatih does not return... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0297par0404	Sir, before we start talking, I'm very sorry, but we've received a message to both our MPs...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0296par0405	Let's have it after the speech, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0297par0406	Aye. Because it's an emergency.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0296par0407	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0297par0410	A rock fell on the miners in Soma. 11 of our workers are reportedly injured. The work continues. If we can get some information from our friends on this matter, I'd like to ask that the House be informed. I wish the wounded a speedy recovery. I'm saying get well soon.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0296par0411	Get well soon. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0298par0451	Dear Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, Rize welcomes the martyr of the attack on our Chief of Police, who wishes his condolences to his relatives, and to the wounded, an urgent cure. I just received this news from Mr. Group Vice President a few minutes ago. I mean, there's no loss of life at the moment, but my friends and my team are there, trying to save the wounded. As it develops, I'll inform the public. First of all, I'd like to start by saying that we're taking into account today the criticism of our Ministry's budget talks and we're going to take it. The Plan and Budget Commission also involved a very efficient, valuable work. Actually, as the Ministry of Energy, we've expressed that we've placed our national energy mining policy on three basic feet: supply security, domesticization and predictable markets. When we look at it, I can tell that political parties have some approaches close to their own ideological structure, but we have a 50 percent common denominator. Every group on supply security today... yes, the country's supply security is important. We can't leave anyone in the dark, we can't leave anyone in the cold, we can't leave them on the road. There's logic, but there's a difference between solution proposals and approaches. And I'd say there's a lot of common sense in placing. There is a consensus on the use of domestic resources to the end of renewable resources in particular. Maybe there's a point where we're differentiated in terms of resource diversity. We've seen the distance of some of our political parties from a long time ago to nuclear energy here today. So we said that nuclear energy doesn't have as much impact as they're afraid of, but I think this process and discussion will continue. Now that nuclear technologies have started in the world, it's actually being discussed today, but when we look at it today, our speakers have just expressed it, and France is getting about 72 percent of its energy from nuclear energy. In the island countries, Japan is as well, in the United States of America, the average of the European Union is about 25 per cent. So we won't give up nuclear power easily. It's an energy source, especially when you look at it in terms of producing zero emissions. We'll be back 50 years in the process, but hopefully 50 years from now, we'll have this technology as a country. It's not right to only look at nuclear technology as energy; in many areas from medicine to agriculture, we actually benefit today. In that sense, I think it would be helpful to look at technology as a whole. Another important issue is predictable markets. And here's actually the structure of the entrepreneur who's been believing in the free market ever since the AK PARTI, who's been opening the way for the entrepreneur, especially if there's been a success story written in the energy sector over the last 16 years, there's a very important contribution to the initiative of private enterprise. There is a $100 billion investment in the electricity sector alone, and a large part of the investment here was made by the private sector, almost 90 per cent and more. This is a success story of the public-private sector together. If electricity is on fire without interruption today and comes to your gas stove without interruption, the free market economy and the people who believe in it have a huge impact on effective audits, including the Organization, are also in line with the European Union's acquisitor. This process will continue this way. Some of our parties, of course, want to do it with more public hands, but you'll remember the past years, the State Waterworks had projects that didn't end for 20 years, and that project was going to end, and we were going to take electricity from there and we were going to deliver it to our cities, and today, praise be to God, the beginnings can be changed depending on the size of the project, but in five or six years it can be finalized. We didn't just focus on these policies, we recently shared our priorities with the public. Among them is political sustainability... and in the last 16 years, the EC PARTY governments have continued with policies that support each other in the same ministry, even though the ministers have actually changed. Political sustainability is very important to us. The second is financial sustainability because the private sector -- in fact the public -- has to move on with its financial lives, to continue their financial lives, and with a reasonable sense of profit based on free market conditions. Another important principle is participation. With all the partners, we have a principle that we can share issues with the industry and consumers that have the potential to influence the market and then implement the arrangements after that. When you look at the power plants that were activated in 2017 and the first ten months of 2018, we actually set a historic record; 13,000 megawatts. We've built more structured power than most European countries have already had, and most of them have renewable resources, including 8,000 megawatts of sun and wind. In these steps, we have increased the locality rate to 50 percent of our electricity production. In accordance with our plans, hopefully, we aim to increase the amount of electricity production from these local sources to over 60 percent. As we look at the power of our board, the power of electricity is actually 65 percent local and renewable resources, but since we produce electricity from cut-off sources, its share in total production is relatively low, and it's useful to pay attention to that. One of our most important issues is to reduce import dependency. The speakers have just made their statement. When we look at energy outdependence, from the point of view of primary energy sources, it's true, there's an import dependency around 75 percent. In terms of electrical energy, it's about 50 percent. Unfortunately, we don't have enough country for oil and gas sources, so at this point we've increased our search. In that sense, we see domestic coal as an alternative to the substitution of imported products, and we quickly increase our investments, our moves on that subject. We've also launched several international projects so that demand for natural gas can be met smoothly. Last June, as you know, as you've been following closely, we've taken over the TANAP. From there, a gas flow of about 6 billion cubic metres would lead to our country, and 10 billion cubic metres would travel across Greece to the European markets. Again, the Turkish Network is one of the largest projects that has recently been valid on an international scale. Last month, you know, we've had the end of their work on the sea side, and hopefully, by the end of 2019, we'll be opening the Turkish Age to run the business. And the storage issue is extremely important. In particular, natural gas is a high demand for winter because when the weather cools, the demand for warming increases, so you need warehouses. With our investment in warehouses, we have increased capacity by two or three times as much with floating LNG warehouses and underground warehouses, and as of today, we are able to give the system 303 million cubic metres of natural gas. What this means is that over the past few years -- maybe not a lot -- we've been cutting down, cutting down, and we've put 250 million cubic metres into the system last year without reducing a gram. This was provided with a recent increase in capacity in warehouses. Our goal is to give the country a storage capacity of 20 percent of the total gas demand. About half of the 303 million cubic metres come from the pipeline and half from the warehouses. It's been like this all over the world. Praise be to God, as of last year, we've fulfilled that goal. Another good news, of course, is that at the end of the year, we have reached our eighty provinces, and hopefully at the end of the year, we will deliver natural gas to Hakkari, and with that, eighty provinces will have natural gas. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As of this moment, 70 per cent of the country's population has access to natural gas, and 62 per cent actually use natural gas. We're increasing this number. Last year we brought natural gas to a hundred new counties. We took him to 42 counties this year under the first hundred-day plan. By the end of the year, hopefully, we will rise to over 70, and then we will bring more than half of the total number of districts in Turkey to natural gas. Turkey must increase its search for natural gas and oil in the sea and land to achieve energy independence. In this scope, we continue our seismic work with Barbaros Ishktin Pasha uninterrupted. He continues his search, especially now, in the Mediterranean, off the coast of Cyprus. But the search isn't enough, we need to get this out, so we need to drill, and we've got our drilling ship Fatih. About a month and a half ago, we started the first drilling off the coast of Antalya. Hopefully, we're planning on getting results there in three or four months. Now we've got a second ship coming in to the Conqueror ship, and he's on his way. By the end of January, he'll be in Mediterranean waters. We will continue to search for this hydrocarbon on our second ship -- not just now -- but also on our first ship, the Fatih and our other ship, in the Mediterranean, and in the Black Sea. We're looking for a scoop, blend in. Pray we find it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable members, in the early 2000s, our power from 30,000 megawatts to almost 90,000 megawatts today has actually tripled. Our production rate is 125 billion kilowattsaatti, and we are now over 300 billion kilowatts per hour; there are more than 2.5 times higher. We've met the increased demand. Now, we've just had the reviews, actually, we have the supply surplus, why the investments continue. But as the country develops, demand increases, our research and research shows it. The GDP, where the country grows every year, increases the demand for at least a minimum of electricity. That's 5 to 6 percent of the time we have to increase the supply side. There is also a benefit to the supply surplus: there is also a significant contribution to the competitiveness of free market logic, in fact, to lower prices to more reasonable levels. One of our other important areas is the YEKA, our work on renewable energy sources. We did our first tenders here last year, both in the wind and in the solar plant. Next year, we're raising it a thousand megawatts in the wind and the sun. As you know, we've also brought in local technology and production conditions. It is also an important topic in the country in terms of a transfer of technology and employment growth. You don't just have to increase power plants for quality electricity. You need to invest in a serious network to deliver this transmission network and distribution network, which we've produced all over Turkey, to 81 million citizens -- about 40 million meters -- and that investment needs to be restored and powered. Between 2016-2020, an investment spending of $30 billion has been made, and it will be done. 12 billion liras for the transmission lines, $18 billion for the power distribution lines. There was a review that said that there was more investment in public in the past. I made friends ask specifically, 2006-2010, which is the period where the public operates mainly, when you compared the amount of investment in that period to $4.3 billion in numinals, rationally compared to the amount of investments actually increased by twice as much. The other thing is domestic coal. With the discoveries we've made so far, we've discovered over 17.5 billion tons, which should be brought into the economy. We have to use this local source for both heating and electricity production. In the work we're doing here, hopefully in the next five or six years, when we build 5,000 megawatt local coal-based thermal plants, we'll also be able to import an important import deficit. Recently, with our Ministry's priority, we've met with local coal makers and plant owners based on imported coal. We said, "Build your coal and burn it at the plants." There were some technical problems, in fact, in terms of designing the boilers and facilities, they were greatly exceeded, and when mixed at a certain rate, the local coal seems to not be a problem. In this case, we are now in the first place because we are importing about 23 million tons of coal to the plants for imported coal, and we will be supplying 10 percent of it from local coal. The monetary value of this is about $414 million, and the rate of doubling it is technically possible. In other news, our Zonguldak MPs have often expressed it when we get there, and they say here, when the workers will be hired. You know, before the elections, Mr. President had promised 1,500 workers, and when we arrived, we said, "The President's word is for us, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll get 1,500 workers into Turkey's Stone Coal, hopefully.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0299par0478	The deficit is 6,500, Mr. Secretary, 6,500 workers short, and a thousand will retire at the beginning of the year.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0298par0479	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've launched another important study on the development of high-quality, added goods in the mining field, especially with the projects we've been implementing. We're auctioning off our minefields as long as we can produce the ultimate product. We've been adverted in three of these. By January, hopefully we'll be able to do that, too. We have a goal of producing high-cost products. If you're making $1 for a product that you're selling as raw material, you're able to produce 7-8 times more than 25 or 30 times more when you make it a product. We're looking for solutions to add a little more value to our minds. In that sense, we've also changed the framework infrastructure. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been frequently referred to as borons. Turkey, as you know, has about 66 percent of the world's known boron reserves. Our market share is 57 percent. We're moving on market targets as far as the reserve. Last year, Meat Mine set a record, production and sales record. We're running this record this year, we're going to raise it to 2,350,000 tons. There's about a billion-dollar sales target. We also have an export capacity around 95 percent of what we produce. We're the world's number one boron manufacturer. But, of course, there was a question, "Do you make oil refined?" Yeah, we're doing refined, mostly refined right now. But there's a chance to make other products besides the boron. We're still working on these. Bor, chemists know, which is actually chemical salt. There's nothing on the board alone, but there can be a lot of stuff in the pipe, like glass, steel, fertilizer, ceramics. In these areas, we also study areas where their uses will be diversified. BOREN is particularly close to our universities in that sense. He's meeting with foreign business partners. We also have a goal of using the boron, especially in the quality steel production needed by the defence industry.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0300par0482	Why don't you accept the Bormatic's request for investment?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0298par0483	It's not enough to build this technical infrastructure, but market logic has to work in its own way. About three years ago, EPAC kicked in. EPIAS, the energy market, was actually a market for electricity products and gas products. The sale of electricity products has been successful for three years. For the first time this year, we've launched a platform for the daily gas trade in natural gas. For the first time in this region of Southeast Europe, we are a country with a gas trade platform. This will help us in the future: we import natural gas from six or seven sources, Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran and LNG, from countries like Algeria, Qatar, Nigeria. If we can create a stock market here when we meet the products of 8-10 sources, then with the price and index that's going to occur here, we'll also be able to make it an important stock market property for our own country and for the closer geography and for the Southeast European countries. I'd like to underline some environmental issues.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0300par0484	The citizen can't take natural gas. Tell him that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0301par0485	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0300par0486	Oh, Mr. President, you're keeping us quiet.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0301par0487	Okay, you didn't come to the stand and talk.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0300par0488	We will, the Minister will answer.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0301par0489	Enough, we promised you on the stand, we didn't promise you, no talking and yelling at you like that.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0300par0490	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0302par0491	We started a tree campaign calling it An Energy Breath. For every new electricity subscriber this year, we plant a tree for each natural gas subscriber. Not enough, this year we're going to plant a tree in the name of every rubber car that goes into traffic. It's not enough, we'll plant a tree for 100 tons of coal each produced. We'll have about 5 million trees. (EC PARTY Applause) So that we can show the environment our value once again, both in the field of energy and of course in the field of resources. There's the Paris climate issue, as you know, we're keeping a close eye on it, but we want justice on it. In particular, we have expressed that being put in the same position as developed countries is a highly negative discrimination for developing countries like us, and it needs to be corrected. Our attempts on this matter continue. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0303par0495	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0302par0496	Our work on efficiency: At the end of last year, we have prepared the National Action Plan. We've come up with 55 action plans. We're starting to apply these. Hopefully by 2023, we'll save 23.9 million TEPs, tons of equivalent oil. It's worth about $8.5 billion. That means energy consumption is 14 percent less consumed than based on the scenario. There are 81 million citizens here who need to do things, not just for the public or for the private sector. In that sense, I'd like to say that it's extremely important to raise awareness of society here. We still have heat insulation problems in our dwellings. We need to stay on top of this from that point of view. I'd like to give you some information about the drilling of the MTA. The MTA, which could only drill 30,000 metres a year in the early 2000s, is now over 1.5 million metres, a historical record, a 1 million in the past year. I've just said, whatever we're looking for at sea, we're looking for land and air, we've started our search. Two of our planes are currently flying 80 per cent in Turkey. We're doing geophysical imaging from the air in terms of the discovery of subterranean beings. And here are the evaluations that we've done. I'll share it with you later. There are important discoveries we've found. The total amount of discoveries we've found is about 100 billion dollars, just after we've made these discoveries in the last two years alone. I'm aware that my time is running short, the final sentence: rather than seeing the success we have achieved in energy and, rather than the fact that we have inherited from our ancestors, we will continue to spend our energy on a more prosperous Turkey, the future of our country, and the trust that we have been burdened with for tomorrow of our children.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0304par0501	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0302par0502	On this occasion, our Ministry wishes all of you the best for our ministry, our nation and our state, our budget offer in 2019, totalling 2,863 billion, 608 million dollars for the central and related organizations. Have plenty of energy and a bright future.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0304par0504	Thank you. Dear friends, there is information about the incident in Soma, mentioned by Mr. Ozkoc. I give the Minister my word on his location. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0305par0510	Three workers are trapped because of the ceiling collapse in the Soma (Soma) accident. The workers have been contacted, no death, praise be to God. There's probably an injury. The workers' rescue efforts continue where they are. The distance is about five feet away, and hopefully we'll get some good news soon, and we'll share it with you, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0304par0511	I hope so. Thank you. 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget ..... the national.... [[Continue]] 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget [[Continue]] 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account HELAL ACROSSION BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 Dear friends, on behalf of himself now, Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0306par0554	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly and you. We're having the last speech of the day, yes, the last word from the HDP. In regard to the budget of the ministries, I would like to point out that this budget has always, as usual, used the AKP's political preference to the environment in the opposite of ecology. Turkey's nature has been transformed into places and fields of poverty, hunger, barrenness, reshaped as a field of destruction, plunder and Rant. In these areas of subject human life and all kinds of living life, now, there are dried streams, destroyed forests, rivers flowing with poison, single-handed agriculture, and far-reaching efficiency. Without meaning to have its name HES, JES, RES, GES or nuclear energy, AKP governments have practically killed the natural life of this country and stood next to capital in order to meet the use of uncontrollable energy. The budget was designed the way the investors wanted; the voice of those who opposed it, who wanted to protect its land and its nature was not heard, as was done to the villagers of Redtown, trying to be cut off by the TOMA, by the pepper spray. Congressmans, I'd like to continue my speech, with the utmost respect and love to greet Dear Leyla Güven, who is still held hostage in prison and is still held hostage in Diyarbakır Prison on the 35th day of the hunger strike today. Layla Güven's hunger strike has left its 35th day behind as of this hour, and that period is now critical. This voice the whole world hears, I wish this House would hear it. As you know, the acts of hunger strike are legitimate and peaceful acts defined as state-runs and public resistance to what political prisoners usually have a very radical background, and what they demand, and what they do to attract public attention; it's not a crime anywhere in the world, and it's the last resort of a prisoner between four walls, because he puts his life forward, and the only savings tool he has is his own soul, and you can appreciate that it's not an easy decision. What the political institution has to do is to listen, respect, hear, and solve. However, representatives of the totalitarian regime, which is part of the decisive elements of the political institution in Turkey, are ignoring this extremely legitimate action, prefers to suppress it, to silence it. Those who have taken the actions of Layla Güven, the peace mothers, women, our members, our executives who have gone on a hunger strike for support, are detained, hit, charged with the minds, and do so at Human Rights Week. In the acts of hunger strike, it is clear what politicians should do. The following methods and methods apply in Turkey as well as in Ireland, Palestine, to take into account the activist's demands. If, of course, the atrocities committed in Arakan, Yemen, Palestine, and East Turkistan are voiced and silent about what is happening in their own country, it is clear that this is a tactic, admissible lawmakers. Look, I'm going to read you a statement: communities that don't give people their rights can't be civilized. Chairman of the AKP. He continues to say that it is not a coincidence that today those who shout "people's rights" have the worst record of human rights in the world. Congressmans, if it's a measure of civilization to get people to exercise their rights, then why have women who have been taken into custody for the past few days who have quietly supported Leyla Güven (Leyla) and his hunger strike in the province of Diyarbakir, Diyarbakir, Batman, in our buildings? You, prosecutors and judges who can't even make decisions without your orders and opinions, have you been exempted from respect for human rights, law enforcement forces that have become your own private security units? That's what we want to ask you. That's what totalitarianism is all about. Every time he tries to crush his own citizen's head, he won't back down from telling the world what to do. For days he's been raiding our buildings, including terrorists, security guards, riot squads, hundreds of police, van..... in Diyarbakir, Batman..... in the suspect of a hunger strike. Because of local elections, everyone entering our party building today is being tagged and GBT checks are being made, and there are a lot of threats. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I complete?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0307par0565	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0306par0566	Thank you. I wonder if so far, a single policeman has dared to go back to the AKP buildings or other political party buildings -- anyone -- and ask for ID, and even ask where he's going? No. These actions are only being done against us, against the HDP people, and their efforts to criminalize them continue. But of course, we know exactly what it's made of; there's an election ahead, and that's why they're trying to criminalize our party. But these crimes against us have been committed for days, you will have to pay for these atrocities, and our people will have to answer for them in the chest. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0308par0570	Dear friends, this way, the second round of speeches is complete. Now, let's move on to the question-answer process. You know, the question-answer process has been reserved for ten minutes for a question and ten minutes for an answer. I'll start in order for the question, depending on the demands. Mr. Gürer, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0309par0574	Mr. Secretary, the electricity hikes in 2018 reached 40 per cent. And with the reason for the dollar increase gone, when are you going to reduce the price of natural gas and electricity for homes and workplaces? The missing illegal costs and the TRT contribution are taken from the citizen on the electric bill. Do you intend to give up this practice? The daily price range of companies that produce energy from natural gas and sell it to the government is between 0 and 2,000 cents. When the normal price is 180 cents to 300 cents, there's snow outside, what's the price now? In winter, companies set off the price according to supply in this sense. Do you think there'll be any precautions without this score? Farmers extract irrigation water from the ground with energy. Do you think you can erase electricity debt interest from an executive farmer who can't pay the price of electricity? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0310par0579	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0311par0580	Thank you, Mr. President. On the first day of budget talks, this budget was called the savings budget. When we look at the budget, the savings always fall to the public. We obviously didn't get any electricity from this budget, Mr. Secretary. The subcontractors, the unemployed, are crying, not in the budget. Guys, he's in debt; he can't pay the gas, electricity, water bills, he's not in the budget. Even the scholarship students are declared losers, and the government is seeking to lend them interest. Retirement is our right. People from YIT have been declared a ferrist. People are looking for bread, and they're going up on the roof to make a noise. The 3600 additional indicators promised in the first hundred days were a lie. Thousands of tradesmen shut down. The citizen's pot was empty. How do you plan to boil these empty pots? How do you plan to reduce gas, electricity, water bills? Does it always come down to belt-squeezing? Finally, in our opinion, the poor man's got no bread on his table, and if he comes out, he's got tobacco on the rich man's cigar. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0312par0584	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0313par0585	Thank you, Mr. President. The countries and nations that have enough energy and developed human resources and benefit from them locally develop and develop and become superpowers. Energy sources vary; it's a mind-blowing miracle that the sun, the largest source of energy, produces its own energy. Our heromarash is the 11th province in which our country meets 8 per cent of energy production and consumes most industrial electricity. In our province, energy is produced from linite, thermal, hydroelectric, wind, sun, imported coal, natural gas, fuel-oil and biogas. With energy and natural resources in our province, there have been about 5 billion euros invested in mining so far. We also have lignite, limestone, barite, iron, manganese, chromium, lead, zinc and geothermal resources and beds in our province. At the moment, natural gas has come to Elbistan and Afshin, after the central counties of our province and Turkoglu and Pazarcık. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our goal is to meet our other counties with clean energy.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0314par0593	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0315par0594	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Trade Minister: Customs Conservancy is one of the four legal law enforcement forces of our government. With 5,000 personnel, Turkey has been fighting smuggling all over the country, but it also provides for the security of customs and territories. This ancient agency, which has been in office since 1856, has seized $2.5 billion worth of contraband and 27 tons of drugs in 2017. It also maintains the competitiveness of exporting and importing companies by providing the confidence of trade in its fight against smuggling. Again, there is no question of the vital importance of the Customs Protection Agency in protecting public health, increasing state revenues and providing state security. The rights of the Customs Conservative Service of this importance are not at their rights when they're examined. Do you, therefore, have any study of the rights of the Customs Conservancy to equalise the rights of other law enforcement agencies? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0316par0600	Mr. Oztunç...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0317par0601	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Energy: You have handed over the Afşin-Elbistan Termic Plant, sold it; you have sold Elbia, and Afghanistan. Trained, contracted, subcontractors, workers who work here are miserable. Is there a way out for staff workers, or are you going to send them abroad? What about the jobs of subcontractors? How much did you sell the plant for? How many forges were there when you sold the plant? How much money was in his safe? TEMSAN workers in the EUAS are unable to receive their rights despite their judicial decisions, do you intend to give them to them? There is persecution in AKEDAS, and the bills of AKEDAS are too high. Do you intend to answer to ACEDAS? The peasant is devastated by the HES project built in his village in Greenyurt neighborhood. The land of the citizen is being taken out of the public domain. Are you going to ask for the rights of our citizens here? You have appointed Izzet Alagöz to the headquarters of the EUSH. Izzet Alagöz is also one of the partners of TEMSAN. Isn't it wrong to bring the owner of TEMSAN, his partner, to the office of the General Directorate of the EUAS, where he works? Is there any injustice here? How do you propose a transparent bid? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0318par0608	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0319par0609	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) How much of the energy use in Turkey is covered by solar, wind, hydroelectric, geothermal energy from the renewable energy sources we call clean energy? 2) What is the status of the oil search in Turkey? How much of the oil we need do we supply with domestic production? 3) Why do you build thermal plants that are known to do a lot of damage to nature and living things when there are a lot of land that can be used outside of agriculture in Turkey? 4) Our shopkeepers are in a very difficult situation, many complain about the recession of their jobs, many of them can't pay the rent of the store, and many of them can't pay their taxes or insurance premiums. Our tradesman's debt is now 362 billion liras. Do you have an arrangement to remove the interest of our tradesmen's debts and collect the principal in long terms, equal installments?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0320par0614	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0321par0615	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of Energy, are you going to see the resistance of the Blackmouth villagers in Burma and cancel the biomass power plant? Are you going to call off the fight against the geothermal power plant by the village of Aydın Kızılca again? Will you shut down the mines and inspect the mines and stop the murders? Do you plan to give free electricity, natural gas, to prevent air pollution, instead of handing out cheap coals to the poor? Will you activate filters and inspect and prevent air pollution at the Orhaneli thermal power plant and other coal plants? If a citizen can't pay the bills for electricity and natural gas rising with the exchange, will you give a discount here?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0322par0622	Mr. Sevkin...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0323par0623	The promise of tens of thousands of people who work under contract at public institutions and are described as 4/B) has not been fulfilled. Thousands of contracted personnel are waiting to be recruited. At various times, the 4/B contracted personnel who try to express their demands for the transfer to the staff loudly, to announce their voices, and to receive the support of the unions must be assured immediately of employment. In the 2011 elections, the 230,000 4/B/B were assigned staff, but why haven't the contract staff been hired since then? Is it also considered that a new study of 4/B personnel should be carried out in order to compensate for their victimhood for the transfer of a spouse? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0322par0625	Mr. Tarhan? No.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0324par0626	May I speak for Mr. Tarhan?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0322par0627	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0325par0628	My question to the Minister of Commerce: How many companies have declared concordato throughout Turkey in the last year? What number is this in our city of industry and commerce, Kayseri? One of the companies that declares concordato is the 250-store chain of macro markets, with 6,500 employees. This chain of markets first took the name "Taze" and then declared it a concordato. It has been alleged that this firm has declared a concordato in order not to pay off its employees. Have you done any work on this? Have you detected a rigged concordate? Mr. Secretary, why is the right of our working brothers and sisters to declare concordato at the end of the payment list? Do you plan to do a study to pay off our victims, the workers? Do you intend to use the unemployment fund in line with its purpose for once?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0322par0630	Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0326par0631	Mr. Energy Minister, an annual consumption increase between 2012 and 2015, during summer and winter hours, averaged between 6 and 9 billion kilowatts. In 2016, when winter hours were abandoned, consumption increased by 15 billion kilowatts, so summer hours did not save our citizens. On the contrary, it caused him to consume 2-2.5 times more electricity than usual. If our citizens don't benefit from the practice, why are they being insisted on? As with bridges, highways and city hospitals, have electricity production and distribution companies been guaranteed consumption? Who gains from this abnormal increase? With practice, what did manufacturers and distributor companies have to gain? How do you feel about the report from the Electric Engineers Room? Why is the academic report based on the application hidden? Are you going to get a copy of the report sent to my side? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0322par0633	Finally, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0327par0634	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is a country with many possibilities for both wind and solar potential. Our country has 27 per cent energy efficiency and savings potential. What percentage of that potential do we have? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0328par0637	Now, dear friends, for the answer, Mr. Commissioner...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0329par0638	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0328par0639	Sir.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0329par0640	I told you to replace Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0328par0641	Dear Yım, we have a list here, we're giving it to you according to that list.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0329par0642	But it was given, Mr. Tarhan gave it to me, and I gave it to him.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0328par0643	I don't know what Mr. Tarhan gave you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0329par0644	But I gave him information.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0328par0645	I'm going according to this list, we've got a list, a list of changed friends reported here, so we're doing it accordingly, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0329par0646	I gave you information, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0328par0647	Commissioner, do you have a request for an answer?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0330par0648	I don't have any demands, let Ms. Rusar begin first, sir, and then our Minister of Energy will continue.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0328par0649	Okay. Who's our minister? Our Trade Minister. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0331par0652	First of all, I'd like to thank you for your question. The selfless work of our customs law enforcement agencies is very admirable, especially this year. I'm going to work in private, you know, not in this year's budget, but hopefully it'll give me a chance to get the equity rights of customs law enforcement to the same level as the other law enforcement agencies.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0332par0654	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0331par0655	As for the second question, it's about the concordate. In anonymous companies, it reached 294. In limited companies, it reached 552. It reached a total of 846. This one is located in Istanbul, 115, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, I'd like to share with you the number of companies that opened and closed in 2017. Opened: 110,575. Closed: 30,648. Net: 79.927 firms participated in business. Our number of commercial companies opened in 2018: 112,300. Closed: 30,700. Our net number of commercial firms is 81,599. The number of businesses opened by our tradesmen in 2017: 215,160. Closed: 89.173. Net: 125,987. The number of business places opened in 2018 is 214,133. Closed: 96,851. Net: 117.282 of our firms opened up and our shop opened up a business. The issue of the Concordato, about the macromarket, at the Justice Department, needs to be clear as a result of the Justice Department investigation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0333par0659	Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, please.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0334par0660	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, we've received some happy news about the accident, we've saved all three of our workers, praise be to God, there are minor injuries, they've been saved safely, and I present it to your knowledge.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0335par0661	Oh, thank God.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0334par0662	Yes, thank God. And the questions may not be in order, but I'll try to answer them. First of all, there was a question about the share and quantity of renewable resources in the power of the energy board, about the production. The total power is actually 88,177 megawatts, as of 2018. Hydraulic resources form 28 thousand-odd megawatts, 32 percent wind, 6,825, 7.7 per cent, geothermal 1,282 megawatts, 1,45 per cent, sun 5.253 megawatts -- we actually did a serious attack here last year -- that's 6 per cent; there's biomass, there's some more, we've got a 640 megawatt power; there's a 640 megawatt installation power; total renewable power 42.241. The account consists of 48 per cent of only renewable resources. As we look at the production, about 33 percent are produced from these sources. The local coal has a production share of about 17%. So we get 50 percent. This was asked by our deputy on the stand and just now about the application of the summer clock. In fact, now we know just how right we are about this. The European Union began to discuss it. Citizens in Europe also say that it is no longer really an urban legend, it has no efficiency, and everyone's psychology is breaking down. Now they've moved on to a one-hour app, you know, we've been gone for two years. But I'll give you the numbers anyway. Indeed, we had an extremely scientific study done at Istanbul Technical University. When this keeps on the summer clock, there's a savings of about $540 million for one-time tariffs and $800 million for three-time tariffs. This is where the miscalculation comes from: the overall increase in demand during the day is perceived as a matter of time difference. There's got to be hours and sunrises and sunsets that need to be compared to here. When you remove the others from seasonality, you'll actually see the accuracy of this account. There were a few questions about electricity, gas costs. I've explained this several times on commissions and various platforms. Energy costs actually determine the final tariffs. If the changes in energy costs are in the direction of reduction, prices are going down, prices are going up if they're in the direction of increase. Not only does currency or inflation affect it, there are other factors that affect it. Within the costs are investment costs, labour costs, international oil and gas prices, commodity prices, such elements as these, and it has a very complex, sophisticated account. The EPDK does these calculations and eventually comes up with a description. This recipe is applied to the entire country as a national recipe. If the costs go down, it's normal to get a discount. That's what we're working on. It's still a year away. The teams are working again and reviewing the costs. There was a question about the afshin. That's right, the Afshin A Operator was transferred to its new owner as part of the right-of-business contract before 2000. It's been passed by the D.A.'s office. But don't worry about any of our workers there, whether he works for us or the subcontractor, the new employer will continue to employ there. I've heard rumors, too. The workers don't need to worry about that. There's a question about oil production. Right now, our oil production is about 60,000 barrels a day. This corresponds to 8 per cent of our total consumption. We're working to increase that. ▪ Why are thermal plants preferred in farmland? I'll tell you this: thermal plants are plants that depend on resources. Wherever you find the coal, you have to build a thermal plant near it. This coal is sometimes found on the plain, sometimes under the mountain. But don't worry about this: these new generation of thermal plants have reached the standards of the European Union in terms of chimney gas, emissions. There's no environmental risk involved here. There were a few questions about the staff. I think it's best to ask the Ministry of Labor, direct them. And tomorrow, I think they have a budget. Fugitive mines... we're actually trying to fight effectively. In fact, in the past year, there was a penal code, a prison sentence. In the past, there were only administrative fines and now prison sentences. These audits are being conducted by governors, law enforcement. If we get a tip, if we catch him during our inspections, we don't look down on anyone. We've lost three workers in a similar illegal mining activity in the past few weeks. We're also dealing with these kinds of events. There is no compromise; we have increased the controls, and we will continue to increase them. Another issue is the impact of energy consumption costs on small-income citizens. The minimum rate of a house that consumes 150 kilowatts of electricity in 2002 is 15.1 per cent of its monthly minimum wage, while the minimum wage today is 1,603 lira; again, when we base 150 kilowatts of electricity consumption, the minimum price of electricity is 5.6 per cent; in fact 1 per third of it is reduced. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm saying natural gas: 1/1/2002 in natural gas again, over a net minimum wage, average monthly consumption of 100 cubic metres, minimum wage of 25 per cent...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0336par0676	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0337par0677	Mr. Gürer... Let's complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0338par0679	I'm completing it. As of today, the same amount of natural gas has a minimum wage of 9.2%. It has fallen from 25 to 9.2 per cent. We want it to be 5%, so we're trying for it, but it's sometimes called urban legend, but the numbers don't lie. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0339par0682	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0340par0683	Mr. President, may I have a word with you for the transcripts?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0339par0684	Guys, that's the answer, you ask the question, you get the answer. There's no way we don't like the answer.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0341par0685	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0339par0686	Mr. Gürer, you asked your question, you got your answer. If there are questions that can't be answered, my friends, and about that, it's a matter for our ministers to answer in writing.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0342par0687	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0339par0688	Sir?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0342par0689	I'd like to say one sentence for him to go on record.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0339par0690	No. Based on what, 69 or 60? What do you want?
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0342par0691	I'll thank the Minister. Just a minute, Mr. President, to go on the record.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0339par0692	You asked your question, it's over. No, Oztunç, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0342par0693	Mr. Secretary, I thank you. If the workers are victimized, it is known that you will be responsible for the account of the Afşin Elbistan thermal plant.
tbmm-2018-12-12sit04spe0339par0694	Friends, the question-answer process is now complete. Now, in turn, I'm going to have the budgets of public administrations in the second round transferred to their exact accounts and their budgets read separately to your votes. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 20) THE ENERGY AND THE ENERGY OF ENERGY 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 2,863,608,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2017 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance is 2,310,590.000.00 Budget Expenses 2,007,711,952.08 Cancelled Fund 302.878.047.92 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Administration account of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Energy Market Editing Corporation be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.05) ENERGY PIECE PRODUCTION 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 307.522,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 307.522,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The energy market regulatory budget of 2019 has been approved. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Energy Market Editorship of 2017 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who do not. 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account Total grant 306,983,443,90 Budget Expenses 276,867,670,97 Cancelled Fund 30.115.772.93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 241,536,000,00 Collection 283,708,270,98 Ret and Returns 6,840.600,01 Net Collection 276,867,670,97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Energy Market Editorial Institution were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the nuclear organization be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.12) THE UNIVERSE PRODUCTION 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 95.132,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 95.132,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The nuclear regulatory budget of 2019 has been approved. I submit to your votes that the National Institute of Bor Research shall be adopted into the central management budget of 2019: those who accept... those who do not. 40.26) INSTITUTION INSTITUTION 1) National Borbor Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 12.489.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 12,489.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Bor Research Institute's central management budget was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the National Bor Research Institute's central management account of 2017 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) National Bor Research Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 15.582,000.00 Budget Expenses 8.833.731.87 Cancelled Fund 6,748,268,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 15.532,000.00 Collection 8.974.230,42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the National Bor Research Institute's central management account in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Atomic Energy Corporation be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.27) BUILDING OF TURKEY ATOM INNERGY 1) Turkey Atomic Energy Institution 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 179.077,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 179.077,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation will be transferred into the chapters of 2017: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Atomic Energy Foundation for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 Total grant 189,321,181,43 Budget Expenses 136.262.435.63 Canceled Fund 53,058,745,80 Transferred to the Next Year 5,085,600,77 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 174,778,000.00 Collection 160,963,893,04 Rejections 615,964,67 Net Collection 160,347,928,37 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of Turkey's Atomic Energy Association's central management account in 2017 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the Department of Mine Review and Search will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.40) MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARLIER GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 625,469.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 620.469.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Mining Study and Search Directorate was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2017 shall be transferred to the chapters of the Mining Study and Search Directorate: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 727.162.106.17 Budget Expenses 665.147.197.30 Cancelled Grant 62,014.908,87 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 21.330,768,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 674.081.000.00 Collection 885,631,020,77 Rejections and Returns 31,069,257,35 Net Collection 854,561,763,42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Mining Study and Search Directorate were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the rare Earth Elements Research Institute will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.64) NADIR TOPRAK ELECTIVES INSTRUCTION INSTITUTION 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 4.529.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 4,529000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The rare Earth Elements Research Institute was adopted in 2019 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes to the Central Management budget of 2019, the Director-General of Mines and Petroleum Affairs: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.65) MADEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 257,403,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 257,403,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Department of Mines and Oil was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Commerce will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Trade Ministry 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 5.693,573.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Commerce's central management budget was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Ministry of Customs and Trade, in 2017, will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 31) GROUP AND TRAVEL LOOK 1) Customs and Trade Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance is 1,262,213,211,90 Budget Expenses 1,144.343.240.83 Canceled Fund 117,414,670,37 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 20,352.438.00 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Customs and Trade was adopted in 2017 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Ministry of Economics in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Economic Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 3.319.432,000.00 Budget Expenses 3,287,736,293,81 Cancelled Fund 31,695,706,19 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the economic ministry's central management account in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Competitiveness Agency will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 42.07) RICOBET PRODUCTION 1) Competition Institution 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 96.190,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 96.190,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the Competitive Association was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Competitive Association of 2017 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Competitive institution 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 93,350,000.00 Budget Expenses 72,698,576,45 Canceled Fund 20.651.423.55 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget Profits estimated 78,000,000.00 Collection 81,426,818,51 Ret and Returns 906,784,96 Net Collection 80.520.033.55 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the competition institution's central management account in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Hellal Accreditation Foundation be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.63) HELAL AKRODITION BUILDING 1) The Hellal Accreditation Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 GENEL TOPLAM 3.876,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 3,876,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget was adopted in 2019. Dear friends, the budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the second round have been accepted. I wish him well. Congressmans, this concludes the second round of talks. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Thursday (December 13th 2018) to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in order. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
