tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Mujahit Durmusoğlu, our Ottoman MP, who wanted to address the 98th anniversary of Dzikçi's deliverance from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Durmusoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to honor the 98th anniversary of the liberation of Osmaniye Dzezici district from enemy occupation. I salute your high council. The protagonists of Dheziçi have waged a national battle against the troops that occupied their land ninety-eight years ago and have shown that no one can afford to bring down our moon-star flag over our country. Today, we have the pride of showing the world once more what we can do when it comes to our future and future as their descendants. The Turkish nation is a heroic nation, defending its homeland with its life, shielding its chest from the sky, never letting the crushing voices of its minarets shut up. Our history is full of examples of this.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0003par0016	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0002par0017	Our Düzçi district has taken its place in history with its dignity in this myth of independence. One of the biggest resistances to the enemy forces that have broken down the Mondros Truce Agreement and implemented the invasion of the Anatolian territories has come from our countrymen. Our regular citizens, organized by the love of their homeland and the power of faith, have had a great share in the survival of our country by fighting their last breath to keep the enemy's hands off its land. One of the leading figures in this struggle is Hussain Hilmi, Mehmet Green, Asaf Sergeant, Hadji Efendi, İsmail Ökkeş Agha, Süleyman Agha, and the countless heroes who fought shoulder to shoulder with them, with mercy and gratitude; their souls be in peace, and their dwellings in heaven. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, who have written their name in gold letters in history, are now protecting natural beauty, hardworking people who value education, and their growing economy in the region. The Chatak Dam -- which will contribute greatly to the development of Djitachi's energy and irrigation services -- continues at great speed. Düzici, who recently met natural gas, became beautiful with modern structures, began to take advantage of institutions such as social services centers and health homes much faster than the state opportunities, will become the tourist centre of the region along with the Düdüldül Mountain Teleferic Project, along with the completion of Bloodgate, Yarbaş and Andır's roads. Among our efforts to improve the quality of life of our citizens, not just the district center, we have a special emphasis on the Atalan, Bugli, Ellek and Yarbaş, the 150-bed state hospital and the 20-unit dental centre. With Allah's permission, we will bring all the resources of the revolution that the AK PARTI has committed in health to our district of Düzici. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, live the people that our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has always stressed, so that the state can live. We've raised as much as we can, as we can, by working day and night with the support of our nation on this path of service. Let no citizen have the slightest doubt that we will work with determination to do even better. We believe that those who view politics as an economic portal, or an instrument of authority or prestige, only those who remember the nation during the election, will never, ever, ever understand our love for the nation. Without love, without aim and vision, politics can't be done. With this faith that we have, we will continue to be one heart, one wrist and one soul for our country, for our region, and for all the oppressed geography that connects our hope to our country. We will leave this beautiful land, which our ancestors have entrusted to us, a far better place for generations to come. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are one of the symbols of the resurrection and resurrection of a nation, which we proudly celebrate the 98th anniversary of its liberation from enemy occupation, which is a unique place in everyone's heart, with the martyrs he fights terrorism, rather than compromise its independence throughout its history. The spirit, which was in our district that day, is everywhere our flag flies today, and will last forever. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I complete?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0004par0024	Here you go, Mr. Durmusoglu. I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0002par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. All over Asia Minor, or beyond our borders, I thank our veterans, who have given their lives for our country, flag, future and future, with mercy and gratitude. I wish our heroic soldiers and policemen, who are now serving for the safety of our country and for the sake of our state, to the great God, to the great God, to the highest of our citizens and to the General Assembly, who watch over us from the top of the screen.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0004par0029	Thank you, Mr. Durmusoglu. Congressmans, the second word off the agenda belongs to our Şırnak MP Mr. Aycan İrmez. Here you go, Mr. Irmez. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, before I take my words, I would like to send my greetings and love to all political prisoners, who are being held hostage in prison for their belief in the freedom of the stand and the freedom of expression, Mr. Selim Demirtaş, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ and our fellow MPs, who are tirelessly and tireless of the struggle for freedom of a people, despite any sacrifice. Dear MPs, one of the citizens of Cizre tried to enter the neighborhood with a white flag so that they could receive wounded in neighborhoods where they had been declared blockaded for seventy-nine days during curfews in Cizre. The funeral of Mahmoud Hear, who never left the neighborhood where he entered with the white flag, was found burned in the basements, along with 143 others. His wife Lütfiye, who was able to receive the funeral, said: "They murdered my husband and gave me five kilos of bones today, Al, this is your wife. He brutally killed my wife, burned her, had nothing left. He was taken into custody last week, March 20th, and was arrested yesterday. The reason is to make a statement to the press about what happened after the ban was lifted. So it's said that you're not allowed to talk or tell about your suffering. Put an end to your policy of persecution over painful people immediately. It's called the order of persecution. The system of persecution is 78 years old and is currently in prison on Sise Bingol, who has been imprisoned although ill. Despite all our warnings, Mother Sise, who suffers from heart and chronic blood pressure, has knee and joint pain, is still being kept in prison, unfortunately. The 78-year-old Sise was sent on a three-day trip from the E-type Closed Prison to the Taros F-type Closed Prison. After three days' journey, he became heavily ill. The Medical Examiner's Office can't be held in the prison last year. Sise can stay in the prison this year, which she reported to her mother. The position of the Forensic Medical Association shows that it is an institution that acts with political opinions and is not neutral and independent. They say he can't stay in prison a year ago, he can stay a year later. What kind of logic is that, what kind of mentality is that? Dear friends, I leave the words here to Mother Sise in detail, what she says in her letter, what she says is, let's all listen together: my pain is so severe, my ears are so hard, my ears are deaf, my eyes can't see, I can't hold my old urine, my teeth have fallen out, my teeth have fallen out the other day, my teeth have broken, I've gone to the hospital many times, my teeth have reached my hand today, and I haven't been able to feed during this time. I've been sitting in a chair downstairs all day for about a month and a half because I go to the bathroom all the time. When I go up the stairs because my feet don't hold up, it's like I'm being tortured, so I get off in the morning and sit in the chair until nightfall. I don't want to go to the hospital, and I can barely stand on my feet for a second or two. When I get to the hospital, I'm having a hard time getting in and out of the ring car until I get to the doctor. My bag of pills are full, so I don't know which one to consume anymore. Besides, I'm coughing in my lungs. The cause of this cough is still unaccounted for. I can't sleep at night, especially because of the cough. I'm sore from my toes to my head. In my first arrest, I was in prison for three months, went to forensics three times, and when I first left, the coroner can't stay in the prison. When I gave the report, I was released, and I went to forensics twice after I was convicted, and the coroner gave me a report. You all know what I went through when I was in exile. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are suffering from severe blood pressure issues, although they have to feed on food for other prisoners. Even heavier, Sise, whose native language is Zazaca, does not speak Turkish and therefore cannot speak to doctors. Think about it. You're in pain, but I'm afraid you can't explain your pain. Mother Sise is the mother of all of us; put your hand on your conscience, and what is done to Mother Sise is torture. A 78 - year - old woman is unfortunately being tortured every day in this country. The conditions of the prison in which Sise mother is being held are an extended torture, and according to the reports from the lawyers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm about to finish my...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0006par0043	Here, Mr. İrmez, I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0005par0044	It's the greatest shame in Parliament to watch a mother be kept in prison, tied up by six others who can't even get out of bed, so please don't be a party to it. We're really talking about a political, human situation, and we have to figure it out, and that's what we all owe. We demand freedom from here to Mother Sise and it is our duty. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0006par0047	Thank you, Mr. Irmez. Congressmans, the third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mehmet Alley, our Balıkesir MP, who has asked for a word on the control of individual arms. Here you go, Mr. All. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0007par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our country is in grave danger of terrorism. The terror of individual arms continues to kill innocent people every day. Every day, on the third page of the newspapers, on television news, we read the news of death in every aspect of everyday life. Have you ever wondered why these deaths have increased so much? Dear lawmakers, the use of firearms in our country has reached alarming levels. The shootings have increased by about 61% in the last three years, women's killings have grown like avalanches. 80% of women's murders take place with firearms. In our country, guns are bought and sold like hotcakes. The Internet buys automatic weapons, and social media sites advertise automatic weapons for $350. I ask you, dear lawmakers, why do you tolerate these arms dealers so much? Dear friends, there's been an armed attack on a school in the United States, 17 students lost their lives in the attack. Three days ago, a million people walked to the White House against individual arms in the American capital, gun lobbys. The whole world is trying to prevent individual arms. We encourage the public to arm themselves. I'm asking you: why don't you control individual arms? Why are you fivefolding the rights of bullets to civilians? Why don't you do anything about the missing 150,000 weapons? The public expects you to answer these questions. I'd like to show you some pictures. Dear friends, this is our daughter, Aleyna Can. You see that, guys? About two months ago, when he was 17 years old, he was shot in the head in a hotel room. The killer had a criminal record for carrying an unlicensed gun, but since there was no effective punishment for carrying an unlicensed gun, Aleyna was brutally killed by a killer in the prime of her life. Dear friends, Icon Regiment, 23 years old, brutally murdered by his wife who filed for divorce three months ago. The killer got out of prison with permission, and as soon as he saw the icon, he killed him with a shotgun. The D.A. has requested an unfair reduction of provocation on the defendant at the hearing. Dear friends, Arzu Gültekin was 31 years old, killed by 14 bullets fired from an unlicensed gun by his girlfriend who he wanted to leave in Gaziantep. Dear friends, Helin Palandöken was brutally murdered in the middle of the street with an online shotgun. Dear friends, these are just a few of the thousands of murdered women I've shown you. New murders continue to happen every day. Dear friends, in Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, all over our country, men and women, young and old, are victims of individual weapons terror. There are no precautions, no inspections, no promises have been fulfilled so far. You rejected our research proposals on this subject, left our question motions unanswered, and you're also encouraging arming by increasing the right of a bullet. So we started a campaign with the families of the victims. We're collecting a million signatures against arming. After the signatures, we'll take action in front of the House. Dear lawmakers, there are 25 million unlicensed weapons in our country, as well as 107 thousand weapons missing. These weapons may one day return to you and your loved ones. We never want to live in a country without safety. We demand that a commission be set up immediately and that legal arrangements be made immediately. I invite you not to take arms, but to take care of our children and our future. Let us guard not violence, nor tears, nor death, but the right of man to holy life; neither shall men die, nor be killed. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. All. Congressmans, now, I'm going to make a moment's promise to our lawmakers who have entered the system. After these words, I will meet the demands of the members of the group's vice presidents. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0009par0072	Mr. President, last week I told you that the OSOs were looting this bench, that the government must investigate these allegations immediately and take the necessary measures; and Mr. Inceöz denied that. Then the presidential spokesman confirmed the allegations regarding the matter -- apparently these events have happened -- and some groups have not followed orders given by their commanders. Later, Afrin came to the issue of police operations against the SSO people. According to the press yesterday, members of the S.E.S.O. clashed with each other while raiding houses in Afrin, and ten of them died. We invite those who call the ESSO to the Kuvasimimiliya and those who hold them together to reconsider. Such actions are not individual and impulsive behavior, but jihadists do not act individually; where they are seized, they view civilian property as spoils, property as prisoners and prisoners. Turkey should not cooperate with these jihadist gangs in Syria; I warn you again...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0008par0074	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0010par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP government and the Ministry of Labor have completely screwed up the subcontractor business, creating thousands of victims. The subcontractor has not disappeared, modern slavery continues to run for low wage, unsecured, unorganised. The ministries have different applications in the same institutions. No one has heard the cry of subcontractors. In public, drivers, social facilities workers, private security workers, employees at the Ministry of Health, employees at the OSCE institution, employees at the State Railways, they say, "Why don't we have a staff?" Before December 4, 2017, the subburdener tender ended. There are security investigations, exams, pensions, layoffs. And what status will the employees continue to work at after December 4th? The unemployment is at 12 per cent, while the new unemployed are being created. Who was taken from the minister, where? How many subcontractors are left in the institutions? On your behalf, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0008par0079	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. Mr. Result...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0011par0082	In Hatay, the business volume of our tradesman, most affected by Operation Afrin and the Syrian war, has decreased by 60-70 per cent. The government has done a very non-realistic study, bringing discounts and configurations to the debt of the tradesman who can only prove that he has suffered from war. We are urgently asking the government for provisions such as taxes, a year's delay of debts such as the SEC, an interest-free loan to our shopkeepers, a year's postponement of loans from trade bail, an interest-free loan, a year's grant to our shopkeepers, and a grant of registration. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0008par0085	Thank you, Mr. Terminus. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0012par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Every day, a new ring is added to the government's chain of victims. The land, with hundreds of years of olives and fig trees in the village of Dürdane in the village of Dürdane, Burma Province, dating back six hundred and ninety-five years, is being taken away from the village of Osmangazi. No one understands that the land that's been growing fruit for hundreds of years and given deeds in 1986 was taken away from the peasant. Even so, the villagers, with their deeds, did not get any results from the court. The villagers, who produce 3,500 tons of black figs and 1,500 tons of olives a year, feel the sadness of the land taken from their hands. I'm asking the Ministry of Forestry through you, do you intend to correct this mistake? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0013par0091	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Division...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0014par0094	Mr. President, the 35-year-old sergeants who have completed at least seven years of service in the Turkish Armed Forces, who have voluntarily been discharged, who have lost their health quality, have the right to be appointed in accordance with the discretion of the state institutions and institutions they demand for appointment, provided the conditions of their relevant law be determined on Article 48, with special conditions and the quality of the class to enter. In addition to being 30 years old for the police and fire departments, the ministries, the general administrations, universities, municipalities, boroughs, public administrative initiatives, protection and security staffs, although they are not preferred by the institutions who have to find the institutions they can appoint for themselves, as well as the fact that they have reached 30 years of age for the police and fire department, as well as that there are no conditions to enter into KPSS. Under Law 3269, the government must make attempts to eliminate the victimization of 35-year-old sergeants who can't return to their own institution after resignation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0013par0096	Thank you, Mr. Division. Mr. Tamer...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0015par0099	Thank you very much, my dear President. Today is March 28th, Library Week, the 54th. Of course, the rise of reading rates in Turkey's Library Week is one of our greatest desires. It's a sad event for our country that countries like India, Thailand and China are first in line. Hopefully, we expect everyone to do their part in improving it. In addition, six of our citizens were killed yesterday in a car accident in the village of İncere in Sarız district. We offer our condolences to the grieving family. One of them is in a coma, hoping for immediate healing, but we also know that his condition is troubled. We're warning all our drivers not to be traffic monsters in accidents like this. Again, I offer my condolences and my regards to our yellow family. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0016par0103	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0017par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. In Turkey, family physicians' problems await immediate solutions. In major cities, the workload of family physicians is far above average, with the number of patients falling to a physician finding 4,000. The physicians are trying to provide health care while balancing the budget of their institutions. According to a study conducted by the Association of Family Doctors Associations, 37 per cent of male family physicians and 34 per cent of female physicians are unhappy. There is no healthy conclusion from this painting. In a family health centre, the current cost-effective application must be lifted, and the state must cover the costs of these centres without any means of use. In addition, measures that will relieve the workload on our physicians must be carried out immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0018par0109	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0019par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, the Farm Bank thing is getting bigger. There's now an investigation into 65 firms. The head of the Farm Bank is in Uruguay. He's got a billion lira, he's on the run, he's got a Ferrari under him. This is the national economy, this is the national economy?! Right now, we've put out a red bulletin about the man. You say, "You're not blushing." First the red carpet, then the red bulletin! Right now, you're gonna give these guys candy factories, red carpet first, and then a red bulletin? I'm sorry! (CHP clapping in rows) There's nothing coming out of one of you. Right now, if candy factories were to be sold... ten sugar factories would be built with this money. Shame on you! On top of all this, we are both local and national. I condemn you to say. Minister Tüfenkci, like the monitoring committee, is just telling the story. I also invite Tüfenkcı to resign. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0020par0116	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0021par0119	Thank you, my dear President. Istanbul has very important and very serious problems. Istanbul's very important and very serious problems are the beginning of a parking problem in Istanbul. The Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor receives parking fees for permitting construction and construction use. According to our law, both the building code and the parking structure regulations, parking money must be paid to start free parking in the area. People in Istanbul are victims of the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor's collection of parking fees and free parking garages. I'm going to build a free area parking lot for Istanbul in my municipality of Istanbul. We're going to end this pay parking in Istanbul, we're going to take care of Istanbul's victims, we're going to solve them, and Istanbul needs Tanal, not the canal.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0020par0122	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Taşkesenlioğlu...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0022par0125	Mr. President, the precious MPs are one of the basic rights of the Constitution, the right to education and, in particular, adult reading-writing education, one of the basic rights of life-long education. To this end, the Reading-Writing Expedition was launched on February 5, 2018, when a total of 2 million citizens over the age of 14 could benefit from this basic right. Earlier, 400 thousand citizens have registered in the Reading-Writing Campaign, which began under the protection of Emine Erdoğan, the dear wives of our President who supported the campaigns. I invite all of our MPs to support this campaign in their own province, hoping that by this campaign, 2 million, 463,000 of our citizens will become readers. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0020par0128	Thank you, Mr. Taşkesenlioğlu. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0023par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Good, heaven, green, the farms, olive groves, nature of our land, are being plundered every day under attack. Again, hundreds of olive trees in close to 30 acres -- although the former village of Osmangazi, in Osmangazi district, was considered an olive grove in the area, which was converted into a field of food, agriculture and livestock. Unfortunately, the Metropolitan Municipality allows this area to be transformed into a 1.5 million cubic metres of waste without any questions. I'm asking both the Metropolitan Municipality and the Minister of Agriculture: Who is causing this environmental massacre, why is it allowed, who owns this weekend's company, does it have anything to do with your party?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0020par0133	Thank you, Mr. Kayishoglu. Mr. Yasar...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0024par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. I visited two separate refugee camps. First of all, the Coxίs Bazar camp in Bangladesh, where the Arakan Muslims sheltered from genocide, is about a million people -- mostly children and women -- in desperate anticipation of tomorrow, witnessing a life that has passed away in an immigrant camp. Secondly, Zateri refugee camp near Amman....the capital city of Jordan.. It's known as the largest refugee camp in the Middle East. More than half of 80,000 people are children, and we had the opportunity to visit them last week. As the most refugees in the world, and also as the most generous member of the world's most generous country that has ever hosted children refugees, I have discussed with our country and with those underdogs the sadness and happiness.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0025par0140	Go on, for the record.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0024par0141	Because when I compared it to our own camps, I realized that we're offering much more effective conditions. I'd like to share this with you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0025par0144	Thank you, Mr. Yasar. Dear Arik...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0026par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Kayseri witnessed unspeakable pain yesterday. Elim, in a traffic accident, we buried six members of the Grape family who died in our town's Tızdere neighborhood. Once again, my condolences to the grape family and to our Saraz. And I'd like to thank those who share this unspeakable pain. I'd like to ask the Minister of National Education: thousands of students in Turkey and hundreds of thousands of teachers are waiting for the appointment of hundreds of thousands of teachers. Besides, there are officers who work in different public institutions, even though he's a teacher. This officer who needs justice from you, do you have any work to do to get our teachers to meet their students? Do you plan to reassign the teachers who are waiting for the appointment? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0027par0151	Thank you, Mr. Arik. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0028par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Savings are to be careful about consumption, to use as much as necessary, and to be manageable. Savings are a conscious opposition to waste, a place of balance between stingyness and wastefulness. In the creation of this consciousness, a blessing in man's service has an effect on his understanding of accepting everything created as a trust that man must protect. Because of what people have done, corruption has appeared on land and sea. Savings can become habitable in childhood, so parents need to pay attention to their sense of consumption. Parsing of garbage, careful spending, being viewed as a means of happiness, not of shopping, but of spending, are a few effective ways to create this habit. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It will be effective in all aspects of life with a reasonable attitude that will provide a sense of savings. Savers don't suffer from shortfalls. Savings breeds little, waste reduces much. We have to stop the consumption madness.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0029par0161	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0030par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, one billion five hundred and sixty-three million dollars have been spent so far, from the actions of Melih Gökçek, who was still inoperable, who began building with great allegations, to Phoenix Park, which had already been spent on the old money, 1.5 quadrillion dollars. During this period when sugar factories were reportedly damaged for $30 or 40 million, a fire broke out in Phoenix, and a giant toy tent burned down. I regret the fact that I made a request about six months ago that these tents were unconditional, that I was right. The money spent here is Ankara's money. The spending money is not the money of Melih Gökçek. It is the money that comes out of Ankara's pockets. These coins must be accounted for, Mr. President. Everyone needs to know that we can't stand by and watch the Ankarans get hurt. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0031par0171	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0032par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important investments in Turkey's future is to raise generations of readers, researchers, interrogators, knowledge and free thinking. In this regard, we view the libraries that contain the cultural savings of mankind as one of the most important treasures of our country, including print and writing, maps, pictures, pictures, and documents, in the name of our future. Our libraries, especially students, researchers and scientists, have an important function for all segments of society to access information and documentation. For this reason, we are especially concerned about increasing libraries in numbers, the maximum use of digital technology, the development of physical spaces, and the ability to get enough qualified expert personnel. With these thoughts, I celebrate the 54th Library Week, wishing that this meaningful week would increase the reading habits, knowledge and interest in learning. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0033par0179	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0034par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. It has been said that public purchases will save money and services from additional services to the state vehicle, and that the costs of goods and services will be reduced as part of the fiscal plan covering the 2017-19th period. According to this, in the past 12 months, how much does the ministry and its institutional and service building cost? What's the number of leased real estate? How much for the renovations, decorations, landscaping, furniture purchase, etcetera? What's the number of rental vehicles? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0035par0185	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. Mr. Yalcinkaya...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0036par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. The company, known for its irregularities and environmental destruction for the thermal plant Bart wanted to build in Amasra, fired 160 people working as subcontractors. The workers were first paid for leave, and then their employment papers were terminated as of March 29th. I would like to address the Minister of Energy and Government here: As for Lafa, a national system is not a national system that protects and protects those who import workers from China and condemns our own workers to unemployment. Will Mr. Energy take care of the workers and their rights as well as the bosses, who provide them with all the ease and good news? Since the day he arrived in the region, when will Mr. Secretary say enough is enough?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0037par0191	Thank you, Mr. Yalcinkaya. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0038par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. It is celebrated as Library Week in our country, which began on the last Monday of March each year to encourage citizens to get to know libraries and to use libraries more closely. The 54th Library Week is being celebrated by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to create awareness of the library and book in the entire dorm. ▪ New generation of children, as part of the events carried out by the theme of new libraries, if man cannot go to the library, the library will come to man's feet. Ten new vehicles, added to 44 mobile library vehicles, provided by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, have arrived on the highways of Anatolia today. Along with my constituency of Mersin, Adıyaman, Ağrı, Aksaray, Ardahan, Bingol, Çanakkale, Kastamonu, Kırıkkale and Yalova, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0037par0197	Thank you, Mr. Excessive. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0039par0200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Coast Guard 71, who served with 30 personnel at Giresun. We don't know how accurate the allegations are that the Boat Command will fall back under the command of the Tripoli Group Command. If such a thing were to happen, the marine areas and beaches between the military-Tirepolis area, including the airport, would be completely unguarded and unmanageable, and the opportunity to intervene immediately against poaching, environmental pollutants, illegal crossings, drowning, and missing persons would be eliminated by sea. Also, the entrances and exits of large small tonnages to the port of Giresun will become unsafe. I'm already doing my warning, and if there's a decision to move, it should be reviewed. The boat command has to be located in its current location or another area, but it must be located in Giresun. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0037par0202	Thank you, Mr. Bektasoglu. Mr. Liberty, you must have been in and out of the system.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0040par0204	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0037par0205	And lastly, I promise you. Here you go, Mr. Liberty.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0040par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. For several years, subcontractors, such as health staff, cafeteria staff, rental car drivers, land-road workers, have not been able to join the staff due to the employment costs of at least 70 per cent of their services, including services based on services and the cost of minimum labour, which have been covered in many areas in the Turkish Cypriots. You've bent the neck of subcontractors who've been stuck in a stupid rule about 70 percent while their colleagues are taking their staff exams. You've separated everything in this country, you've separated women, you've separated martyrs, you've separated veterans, you've separated students, you've separated workers. An injustice to one person is a threat to the entire community. From here, I call to the government: Make way for our subcontractors, who want to bring home bread every evening with great difficulty. Let justice be served, 70% removed, all subcontractors cast. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0041par0211	Thank you, Mr. Liberty. Congressmans, I will now meet the demands of our group presidents. Mr. Akçay, come in, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0042par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Very important cross-border operations are being carried out at a strategic level in the fight against terrorism. The Firat Shield, Operation Idlib, the cleansing of El Bab (El Bab) and finally Operation Olive Branch are strategic steps in Turkey's fight against integrated terrorism. Finally, Afrin and Tel Rifat have been cleared of terror. Terror should not be allowed anywhere, from Hatay to the Iranian border along Turkey's southern border, including the domestic border. This is the security belt that Mr. President announced on August 6, 2012. To minimize threats to our country, a crescent-shaped security belt must be provided and carried out in order to contain the western end of Afrin and the east end of the Kandil. This is the security generation, which is also a peace and quiet generation, and as important as Afrin is in this generation, Tel Rifat, Ayn Al-Arab, Tel Abyadh, Kamişlı, Fırat, east of Firat, Menbic, Sincar, Mahmur, and finally Kandil are equally important. The clean-up of this area is the most important step towards the end of the threat of terror and beka. In this struggle, the army is united by the understanding of the nation, and our beloved nation is united by our heroic army. Our nation's support and prayers are always in our favor. Mr. President, this is Library Week. Countries, nations weigh, weigh, weigh, weigh, with their cultural wealth and savings as much as their economic wealth.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0043par0220	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0042par0221	Today, when we talk about cities such as Istanbul, Buhara, Samarkand, Nishabur, Aleppo, Damascus, Baghdad, we can all see from their huge libraries that they have reached a great culture and civilization. Our libraries, the treasure of knowledge and culture, are our gateways to the future, as we have contact with the past. So, libraries, our source of wealth, our source of information, have been a vital function in getting books to large masses, and thus spreading information to the bottom. I'm celebrating Library Week with the desire to be shown the necessary interest in books that break the chains of minds, that help us explore the world, that expand our horizons, that provide information. On this occasion, I welcome the late Mustafa Good-Eye, who is known as the Grand Librarian of Librarianism in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0043par0224	Finish your words, please, Mr. Akchay. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0042par0226	In 1943, the librarian Mustafa Güzelgöz, who was assigned to Ürgüp, served 36 villages in his mobile library of 7 mules and 3 horses. As such, the Donkey Librarian is the symbol of the reading and reading determination and will that we need. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0043par0228	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Mr. Danış Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0044par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, censorship in the media really knows no bounds anymore. According to reports this morning, the Liberal Democracy newspaper has been informed that a trustee has been seized and appointed as a result of a raid last night around 3:00 p.m. After the sale of the Doğan Media Group, we want to say that the pressure against Libertarian Democracy is in no way compatible with democracy, with the legal state, with the right to public information. There's plenty of practice to say, really, there's also a lack of boundaries, to go to a newspaper building around 3:00 a.m. and to apply to the TMSF.T.M.S.F. Now, there's also a painting -- there are detentions -- and I want to share them with you: Erdogan Zamur, Musa Kaya, İhsan Yasar, Kemal Kurd, Cemal Tunç. Now, here, the Libertarian newspaper of Democracy is not for sale. It's no coincidence that the newspapers are confiscated and appointed trustees are not for sale. Because the newspaper Libertarian Democracy has written the facts, such attacks on the AKP, such as attacks on other, Republic and other journalists, are being attacked because it is not for sale and does not give up its search for truth. What I want to say is that the basic policy is either buy it or use a trustee's ancestor or censor it, they don't have a third option, but it's not just a newspaper that's confiscated, it's a public right to be informed, it's a democracy. Mr. President, another matter continues without slowing down the events of the Boğaziçi University students. When you say events, you mean attacks on students...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0045par0237	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0044par0238	Following the president's aim, detentions are under way, and torture practices in detention have been widely reflected today. I'd like to say in the first hand that those who have been severely hit in the police vehicle, tortured in custody, threatened in the presence of the Boğaziçi students are responsible for making them the target of everything that happened to them. We now have the students' own explanation. You'd be less intelligent if we hit you in the head in the police car...... they blindfolded us in the vehicle. There's a scar on my body, some of us have handcuffs. Someone's nose cracked, we got a report of a beating... and they said they were complaining. First of all, what does the President think about the torture of these students, and will he openly accept this responsibility? They want to start a new era...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0045par0241	Please, finish your words.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0044par0242	Those who are not from the AKP have an effort to take away their student rights. Boğaziçi University students are not alone; we are with them; we will do everything we can to explain their thoughts in every environment, on every floor. There's one more very important thing, and I can't go past that. Şırnak People's National Education Director Bkent Suran, Martyr Major Ercument Turkmen, attended the Middle School and distributed headscarves to elementary school and middle school children. Mr. President, we have photos of this. Elementary school students are forced to wear headscarfs and headscarfs for children between the ages of 9 and 14. So these photos were found in all the media broadcasts. On March 2nd, a picture of all children with headscarf photos was shared with the public. First of all, schools have free clothes. This is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll wrap it up, it's the last...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0046par0246	Here, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0044par0247	Disguise freedom is clearly stated in both national education legislation and international law. Handing out turbans is a compulsion, a compulsion. It's a scandal to be done by a county national educational director, and we certainly don't accept it. And taking pictures like this will cause irreparable damage. This is the product of a mindset that does not value the freedom of the individual's faith, but gives him the right to education. We are calling on the Minister of National Education immediately to make a statement on the matter, start an investigation into the case, and the National Education Director in question must be suspended. We absolutely refuse and refuse to impose on the children. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0046par0249	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Altay, come in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0047par0252	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, on the 98th anniversary of the liberation of our city's enemy invasion, I remember our heroic martyrs and veterans with mercy and gratitude; and if there are survivors of that battle, I wish them a long life from God. On this blessed day for the people of Daziçi, we congratulate the Republican People's Party as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As my colleagues refer to it, it's Library Week. The rapid development and prevalence of the Internet, unfortunately, severs the bond between libraries and humans rapidly, driving them away. The library has now become a nostalgic word, a concept, which we regret to say, but, of course, the backwards savings, the lessons to be learned from them, with the results of them, communities set courses and directions for them, a society develops, a society expands its projections for the future. In this regard, our libraries are valuable and valuable. Our library employees undoubtedly have a lot of problems, a lot of hard work. We also want our Ministry of Culture to do the necessary work in developing, updating our libraries, getting to a more accessible point, getting people to meet the book more easily. We hereby congratulate the People's Republican Party, the Grand National Assembly Group of Turkey, Library Week. Especially this week, getting a little closer to the libraries, getting to know people a little better.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0048par0256	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0047par0257	And we think this week should be well spent on taking advantage of them. Of course, our opposition, if we don't criticize the government, is sad to see that the government does not care for Library Week. We also hope that the government will provide the necessary contributions to the purpose of the Library Week, in accordance with its purpose, in terms of other activities in terms of public spotlights, sir. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0048par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Turan, come in, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0049par0262	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. I hope this day will be a blessing to our nation and Parliament, and a success to start a new law discussion. We got some bad news yesterday. After the capture of the province of Afrin as part of Operation Olive branch, our military is continuing its search activities in the region in a busy manner, as is known. While these activities were being carried out the other day, we received the report of the testimony of our Infantry Sergeant Abraham Imis and Infantry Specialist Veysel Temek. I pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, and I wish our soldiers success in this matter, and I wish our veterans healing, and the Lord will give them their place in heaven. We had a long talk about our Library Week yesterday, and our government has very busy activities to deliver our libraries to the remotest corners of it, to deliver our books. Thank you again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0050par0267	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 28/3/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 28 March 2018, the Council of Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş, Vice President of the Group, proposed that talks be held in the next session Wednesday (28/3/2018/2018), in an effort to investigate the problems that media monogamy will create in terms of democracy and to determine policies for the creation of pluralist media conditions. Thank you. Mr. Ertuğul Kürçı, our MP for the People's Democratic Party Group, who has been recommended to explain the reason for the proposal, is here. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0051par0286	Mr. President, dear friends, the purpose of our motion is clear: We call on the Parliament to stand in the face of a one-way news stream and a one-way information regime that eliminates the right to public information and editorial independence of journalists, which has now emerged in Turkey's media. With all of the last Dogan Media Group's assets sold to Demirören (Kanören), all the dominant structures in Turkey's media are now in the hands of pro-government owners. Before this sale, seven of the top 10 newspapers were in the hands of government supporters, and now all of them are in the hands of government supporters. In addition, with all the bodies of the public media, the Turkish Radio Television Foundation, the Anadolu Agency, RTÜK, all the structures under the control of the RTÜK, the Justice and Development Party in terms of media ownership and media control, the President has been unprecedented in history, in fact having a network of communication and media control as powerful as even the founders of the Republic of Turkey have never had. This is, in fact, an application that, as of this moment, is actually a determinant of the existing laws in Turkey, which are framing them, because it is against the law that media groups use their media-investmented employers to create a monopoly in the media. For this reason alone in recent years, in 2011, Milliyet and Vatan had had to sell their newspapers to the Doğan Media Group Demirören Group because of the findings and constraints that the Competition Foundation had established that there was a monopoly situation. But what an interesting paradox it is, now buying all the publications of the Demirören Group Doğan Group, has actually risen to the same position that the Doğan Group had in 2011, but there is no sound from the Competitive Association. What really happens is that in Turkey, the monopoly of knowledge, truth and communication is in the hands of power. This is a situation that does not exist in the world; even in Russia, this is not the case; even in China, this is not the case. Therefore, I think, and we think that the Great National Assembly of Turkey must act in the face of the extraordinary regime change in these media, because there is no way that the knowledge of power and power can be controlled from below by other channels of society. In its simplest example, no other channel remains for our people in Turkey, except for the Anadolu Agency's information that he spreads to monitor the election results from now on. It is clear that today the newspaper Libertarian Democracy has been published and attempted to appoint trustees, and that the situation is inexactly in the pursuit of the newspaper's capture. All independent structures outside of this singular state are under extremely heavy pressure. Basically, in Turkey, the media has become a general sewer, not a source of information. Staying away from this sewer is important in the mental and physical health of our citizens. Under the circumstances, the people of Turkey can only access information by staying away from these sewer media, by staying away from their screens, by strengthening independent literature, by activating creativity and intelligence to establish alternative communication networks. Under the circumstances, Turkey is actually one step ahead of Hitler's Germany. The question of how the future will be determined depends on the outcome of the war of domination over the media. Unless the Grand National Assembly of Turkey does this research, it means it's actually absorbed the situation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish my sentence.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0052par0294	Here, I'll give you one more minute to finish your vows, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0051par0295	The situation of a Parliament that embraces this situation will be no different from the situation of the media. So, under the rule of a political centre, if a Parliament that has become an instrument of governance, guided only by the dominant hills, under its direction, Turkey will pass through the door of fascism if it completes a media that has become the aparatist of the administration. When we say fascism, we mean not just pressure, but a special form of oppression. This particular form is the world of slaves, slaves, who have taken defeat, acceptance of defeat, and recognition of defeat as an honor. Fascism is the world of slaves who bless slavery. There's only one step left to prove that you're either slaves, or you're slaves on the rise, and now we're on his test. I salute you all with respect.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0053par0299	Thank you, Mr. Furman. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, our İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay will speak. Here you go, Mr. Balbay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0054par0304	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, right now, of course, the media has become one of Turkey's most important issues. The main goal of power is the multi-channel single voice. It'll look like a lot of channels, a Turkey with 50 channels, 100 channels, but they'll all have one voice. This is the way to go right now, lawmakers. It is also discussed in the world, unfortunately, in Turkey, it is more violent to watch. Now that we're here today, there's no media power, there's the media of power. In such an environment -- the speaker has just mentioned the problem of the Competition Council -- I'm changing the name of the Competition Committee now, and if they embarrass me, it's a rehab institution, and we can already see that no decision will come out of that institution. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, it's Library Week. Your communication is important outside the media, but the police entered the library at Boğaziçi University on Library Week the other day at 5:05 a.m. A document has been searched in that library, where there are 00,500,000 books. The ruling lawmakers remembered Library Week, but I don't want them to forget that. Members of parliament, right now in Turkey, the government is comparing all voices to itself, and you'll see, it's not going to work for the government. It's been tried in the world, but it's never been successful in any way. One day you'll see it's all about your own voice. If all the news in one country is about power, society becomes deaf and that society does not speak, and remember that the silence of society is more dangerous than the sound of bombs; you can't imagine what will happen tomorrow, what energy will be stored in it. Therefore, review media freedom, which has been completely narrowed down today, 56 rows back in the last 15 years in your power. When it's all about your news in the media today, don't think that society believes in you, it's the truth. Congressmans, I'd like to share with you what the public said the other day at a coffee shop watching the news. In a cup of coffee, on TV, on the news, the top-down speakers of the ruling party had made a promise, with only their voice, a citizen said: "The lie has nested in their mouths. The lie has nested in their mouths." Society sees everything, don't think you're hiding. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0055par0312	Thank you, Mr. Balbay. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, it belongs to our Ankara MP, Mr Murat Alparslan. Here you go, Mr. Alparslan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0056par0317	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. In the group proposal and the statement of the speakers, I would especially like to say in advance that our government, our party, the media, and the media are trying to block it with a number of sanctions, against its diversity, against its color, and that we do not accept the allegations that it tries to manipulate the community through a single voice and one-hand media. In particular, from the day it was founded, our party has made great improvements in terms of freedom of expression, media and media freedom, which has been forced to remove a number of affected faults on the nation's will and sovereignty. We're all aware that in our country, both the diversity and color of the press in numerically and in terms of its voice, its agencies, its media, its local and national media. Besides, we all know that in many European countries and in many parts of the world, there has been talk of a freedom that has been mentioned to our executives from time to time, to insults to our President. In addition to that, we've all seen a number of headlines made in the past, which are directed at the praise of terrorist organizations and terrorists. Therefore, it is not right for a media organization or a journalist to be judged by the bet because it is only due to its media and newspaper representative to pursue a penalty or to prosecute a criminal prosecution. We all know that when these are investigated, it's because it's a criminal element, and it's because it's necessary to face a punishment. Therefore, in our country, it is clear to us that both freedom of expression and the diversity of the media will continue to carry out its mission and carry out its mission with an understanding that acts with an objective, objective, enlightening public opinion, avoiding black propaganda, speculation, and irresponsibleness. We're all aware that the media sale is a business relationship. In 1979, the daily Milliyet should not think that a media organization that bought the daily Hurriyet in 1994 should be selling today, or that different media organizations are changing hands, forming partnerships, changing press, principles and duties, and becoming a situation in favour of power. The media's objectively and objectively mission to enlighten public opinion continues here, and the EC PARTY's government opens its way through any legal arrangement that will preserve it. Therefore, I express my opinion against the group's proposal, and salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0057par0322	Thank you, Mr. Alparslan. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the proposal of the People's Democratic Party Group: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 28/3/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal and his friends have proposed a parliamentary research proposal (1812 rows) given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly on 26/3/2018 to privatise 14 sugar factories belonging to Turkey and to determine the solution proposals for the problems of workers working in factories. lu) has been proposed to meet 28/3/2018 Wednesday (28/3/2018) in front of other proposals. Thank you, Mr. Gazel. Members of parliament, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, who have been recommended to explain the reason for the proposal, Mr. Burcu Koksal will speak on behalf of our MP Afyonkarahisar. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0058par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I would like to address you today on behalf of 250,000 families on the stand, 25,000 sugar workers and hundreds of movers and children who are eating bread from these factories and millions of citizens who don't want to feed their own generation the poison called NBŞ. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This plant you've seen -- this plant that loves the land of my land -- is a sugar beets. I see the AKP Group hasn't been told enough about the benefits of this plant in school. So I'm going to tell you the benefits of this plant, just like I'm going to tell someone else. This plant is the sugar of our tea, the taste of our mouth, the essential, the sugar beets of natural sugar. It's from this plant that we feed to our animals. The raw ingredient of the Mayan industry is the melas from this plant. It increases the yield of the soil by 20 percent. It puts oxygen in the air and is placed in the second place in industrial plants in the value of adding, and about 250,000 families eat bread a year because of this plant. Now, by selling sugar factories, you're trying to wipe this plant off the land by locking their doors, and you want to victimize over 4,000 sugar workers working in these factories. Look, these workers worked for two extra hours a day for one month in April 2016, with the decision made by ŞEKER-İST. Why? They tried to keep the factory alive, so that their factories could survive, and with these sacrifices, they tried to keep it alive. The number of staffed workers across Turkey is 5,178, and the number of temporary workers is 2,754, and the number of subcontractors is more than 10,000. So in Turkey, over 25,000 sugar workers eat bread at these 25 sugar factories. With privatisation, staff workers will change sectors, maybe change cities, and have very serious problems, temporary workers will literally lose their bread. By temporary worker, I mean workers who work for five months and 29 days, who spend half the year unemployed, who have no pension rights. You're supposed to be up to nine months and 29 days, but our temporary workers at the sugar mills have not been able to take advantage of that right. You said Tabherona, you didn't hire subcontractors in sugar factories, they didn't take advantage of that right. Again, I've visited 22 sugar factories in about three weeks; I've talked to the sugar workers there one by one, the beet makers and the citizens who live in that city; from Erzurum to Kars, from Afyonkarahisar, from Elazığa, from Mush, from Van Erciş, from Ağrı, from Kastamonouya, all the workers who work in all factories say no to privatisation, says no. So, who says yes to this privatisation, who wants it? He wants an American starch-based candy lobby. Because America wants us to eat what is called sugar-based poison in its own production. Look, in 2015 we had about 400,000 tons of sugar in our stock, and you got up and imported 170,000 tons of sugar. Why did you buy imported sugar when we didn't need it? Because that's what your ally, America, wanted. You lecture people, "O America," and then you shake hands with America to sell sugar factories, and then you come here and talk about domesticity and nationalism. With all due respect, it wouldn't be domestic or national if you were to pursue your own factories. To be native and national is to stand up against the American starch-based sugar lobby. To be domestic and national is not to leave his own worker, producer, worker, mover, unemployed. Being local and national, with poison called NBŞ, the next generation of cancer... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll just give me a minute, let me finish, because this is very important.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0059par0349	I'll give you one more minute to finish your words, Mr. Rootsal. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0058par0351	This poison, called NBŞ, causes serious diseases such as cancer, infertility, obesity. The European doesn't consume it, the American doesn't consume it. The quotas are very low, even in England and France, but you want to make us eat this poison in Turkey, and I say: I don't want GMO and NBS in my country, in my field, in my table. Thousands of our citizens, millions of our citizens, are shouting in Turkey. Now listen to this. These factories are the sweat of the worker, these factories are the bread of the beet maker, these factories are the profit of the mover, these factories are the health of our children, these factories are the market money of our anchor ladies, these factories are the inheritance of the manifatsmen in Anatolia, the butchers, the grocery store, the grocery store, these factories are the inheritance of Ataturk. Please look like this. I salute everyone with respect.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0060par0355	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0061par0356	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll make a brief statement.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0060par0357	Mr. Turan, let's listen to the rest of the talks, and you can answer all of them.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0061par0358	Let me just say one quick thing.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0060par0359	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0061par0362	We tried to listen to the speaker very carefully because he spoke from a very high screen. First of all, last week, with the support of all parties, we've reached a decision here that the critical NBS, which is 15 percent, falls from 15 percent to 5 percent.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0062par0363	Five percent!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0063par0364	The Ministry has the authority to increase, the Ministry.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0064par0365	Mr. Gürer, please... friends, please... Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0065par0367	In addition, more quotas have been used by the Turkish factory, contrary to what has been said. So we're with the sugar maker. Never, as alleged, do we do this to favor the factories of some countries. We're open to criticism, we're open to detection, we're working together to do better. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0064par0369	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Mr. Altay, do you have any demands?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0066par0371	Sir, I'm just saying for the record. God exists, people are watching us, and I'm saying that this speech of Mr. Turan (Mr. Turan) must have been laughed at by our citizens in the settlements of the sugar factories. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0067par0374	You laugh, you laugh!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0068par0375	Thank you, Mr. Altay. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, it belongs to Mr. Fahrettin Oğuz Tor. Here you go, Mr. Tor. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0069par0383	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the problems of workers working here as a result of the privatisation of 14 sugar factories. I hereby salute your high council and our fellow citizens who follow us with love and respect. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've said it many times, and I'll repeat it again. No matter what public institution he's at, we can't succeed unless we give the job to his people. When it comes to sugar factories, I'll give you a few examples of management. I'd like to point out that I've mentioned the subject before on the CSI Commission. A while ago, he was assigned to the General Directorate of Candy Factorys in the administration of a staff office whose profession is the prosecutor's office. If the prosecutor wants to give the judge a high-level administrative position, the address isn't sugar factories, it's the Ministry of Justice. Another member of the factory's administration is the President of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, whose area of expertise is Fars language and literature; the Fars language and literature expertise is still in office. Our third example is another friend who has served as governor of Artvin in the past. I just want to say that if we believe in giving the job to the best of us, none of these are addressed to the sugar factories, or to the management, or to the sugar factories, or to the sugar factories. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about sugar factories right now. A factory means a machine, means equipment, means electricity, means metal. None of the board members have been trained in engineering. Another important issue: Almost all of the board members are here as second officers, their first assignment, their place of employment is other public institutions. In short, members of the board have been assigned here to complete the signature. As far as their expertise is concerned, what they can offer as the institution's top executive body is extremely limited. And since they don't work full-time, it's more accurate to say that there's nothing they can give. Dear lawmakers, around 4,000 employees work in 14 sugar factories. Those who ask will be able to work in other factories as well as other public institutions can work in 4/B, or they can work in public institutions 4/B if they want to, after working for five years at the company to take over. It is clear that our brothers, who have worked in factories for years as foremans or skilled workers, would be victims of years' savings, their professionalisms, their qualifications, if they choose to make a choice in 4/B status. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0070par0389	Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0069par0390	Thank you. Because they will not be able to maintain their position in public institutions and find a position that suits their position. In the event of a random assignment to public institutions about their collections, which they will be - it's clear that they will have a spiritual breakdown. Working 14 factory employees in other factories won't help for efficiency, they won't even find a place to sit. Another and a very important issue is related to contracted engineers who were employed in 2017. The uncertainty of providing employment for 4/B status continues. I would like to say that the sample of the Meat and Fish Foundation is in front of us, and I wish to review the privatisation of sugar factories. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0071par0396	Thank you, Mr. Tor. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, it belongs to our Adana MP, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Beştaş, your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0072par0401	Thank you, Mr. President. The sale of sugar factories is one of the most fundamental and important issues of the last days, but the ruling party again ignores the objections, objections, riots of workers, families, opposition, democratic public opinion. And they know very well that the responses to the sale of sugar factories are real, and if they don't pay attention to it, it could cause irreparable damage to everyone, as a whole, for Turkey. In this period of power, it's really national and native literature, but it's actually the biggest blow to the natives that's ever been hit by agriculture. Other than the sugar factories, there are also general problems in many production areas. Now, the most urgent agenda, of course, is the sale of 14 percent of the 25 sugar factories. The privatisation of an agricultural factory is not just a matter of workers working in the factory, but of production technique alone, but of course, we need to think about it in all its dimensions. We're talking about an industry that's going to affect 3.5 million people in total. It won't be exaggerated if we tell the farmer, the worker, the tradesman, the mover, the feeders, the managers and their families that this has 3.5 million impacts. Now, one of the basics of power is that sugar factories are being damaged. There's no such harm, it's just another hallucination, a sense of perception. When they say something a hundred times, they create a perception that they exist. Let's look at the Müsh Sugar Factory, where it's built beyond its capacity. The sale of Burdur's Sugar Factory is a scalpel to Burdur's lifeblood. Now, the sale of the milk factory in the city had upset the supply-and-request balance before, which would bring up the sale of the sugar factories. In fact, sugar beets agriculture creates three times more oxygen than an area of forest that is equivalent to a field of crops. That's why it's vital to all living things. Turkey currently has the capacity to produce a total of 4,141,000 tonnes of sugar, including 3,151,000 tons of beet sugar, 990,000 tonnes of starch-based sugar. Beet agriculture is also very important because it has a property that provides efficiency growth in products that will be planted after its own. Here's the last thing I want to say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0073par0408	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0072par0409	Thank you. Yes, there's a power that weighs on privatisation. Now, especially in the economy that's been transferred to war, the sale of sugar factories as the final fort is now on the agenda. However, if the economic power transferred to the war was transferred to agriculture, these sales would not be needed, and the farmers, the workers' problems, can, of course, be resolved. But the government wants to create an artificial economy in its effort to win elections and bring certain groups along this way, and it sets fire to the laborer, the farmer, its own citizen, while destroying agriculture in the country. At this very moment, I would like to address the government specifically: The damage you have done to the farmer, to the laborer, to all the people, and to the nature of the land, in this way, in order to enrich yourself and protect your votes. We won't allow it, and I say we invite citizens of Turkey to all fight against not allowing it, and thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0074par0413	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoğlu belongs to us.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0075par0415	Let's see if there's any support coming from the AKP.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0074par0416	Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0075par0419	There is no factory in Hatay, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0076par0420	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0075par0421	At least they promised a friend of ours from a county that owns a sugar factory.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0076par0422	Of course, since every corner of Turkey concerns all of us...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0075par0423	It's a huge insult to the sugar producers!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0077par0424	You're welcome, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0076par0425	He's been haphazard, Kayseri, Iconium, Black Sea, Inner Anatolia, Aegean, so there's nothing to notice, so the problem is all of us.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0075par0426	Okay?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0078par0427	I'm a Turkish MP. You mean.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0076par0428	Exactly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0075par0429	Even if there was at least a province with a sugar factory...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0079par0430	Mr. Türkoglu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0076par0431	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party proposal, which requires the privatisation of Turkish sugar factories and the opening of parliamentary research to investigate the problems of workers working in sugar factories. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, one of the main goals of privatisation is to ensure that factories continue to produce sugar from sugar beets. All quota agreements made by TKKEKER for the past five years after privatisation will be the same, along with the provisions which we have imposed on the continuity of production. It's guaranteed to produce within the quota. If he manufactures under quotas, the initial guarantee will be saved. The quota he does not use to produce less than quotas will be restored to Turkey without any further processing. You know, from time to time, there were circles that took advantage of the quota and made it a commercial activity, and that was stopped. As a result of this arrangement, there is no loss of rights for our brothers, who are either on the movers or on the take. Even after sugar factories are privatised, Turkey will still have a serious market share left in sugar. It is estimated that the public's interest has been taken care of as a 20% share of the market remains in the state. Now, of course, our member of the group has just explained that the law that we've all passed together has been reduced to 5 percent of the sugar quota -- God willing, this will be even lower in the future -- it's a happy situation.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0080par0434	It's not even the law.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0076par0435	Only areas where factories produce can be subject to privatisation. That way, the factory's non-profit movers are excluded from privatisation. Dear lawmakers, special provisions have been brought to protect the rights of officers who work in sugar factories. The officers will work in other Turkish factories if they want to or will be given employment in different public institutions and institutions, provided all their rights are paid.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0080par0437	Congressman, 10 per cent only carry this condition, 90 per cent don't carry the condition, the condition.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0076par0438	If they want to again, the right to work with the investor will be reserved. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0081par0441	Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0076par0442	Special provisions have also been issued regarding our permanent and temporary brothers and sisters. If our worker brother has not earned his pension, the right to return to the public has been made, even if he wants to work in other factories or if he wants to work with the investor. In light of all these arrangements, our employees, who will not have to worry about unemployment, will, of course, be able to move on to their own preferences as a natural consequence of the process. The conditions for privatisation of sugar factories also pave the way for co-ops, troops, investors to bid together. For this to be achieved, the lower temporary guarantees needed to participate in the tender will be essential to maintaining a transparent environment in the tender. It won't cause the victims of beet farmers, employees, public and new investors... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a consensual of all the confederates and can allow the industry to continue with a competitive structure in the future.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0082par0446	If it's against privatisation of sugar factories, give it another five minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0076par0447	I say we're against the Republican People's Party's proposal for research, and I salute you all by saying we're with the beet maker.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0083par0449	Mr. Turkoglu, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0084par0450	Mr. President, there's been a lot of bullying about the twist of my words, the distortion of my conversational content.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0083par0451	What did he say, sir?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0085par0452	What promise?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0084par0453	It says: "The factory will not be shut down, it will continue to produce, and the workers will not be victims. " If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement about this for a moment.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0085par0454	We don't understand the sarcasm, Mr. President. Can he say it again, Ma'am?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0086par0455	Mr. Turan, I'm listening, you don't need to, you sit down, relax.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0087par0456	Mr. Turan is trying to understand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0088par0457	By twisting the content of my speech, the factories...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0086par0458	Make a brief statement from your position, Mr. Rootsal. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0088par0462	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the speaker, said on the stand, "These factories will continue to produce." When we look at the privatized factories before this, the situation of the Meat Fish, Yem Ash, SECA, tobacco factories is obvious. After many were privatized, the lock was on the door, almost all of them, some of them left to rot in a thrown-out state. For example, my constituency is Afyonkarahisar, and we can go to the Tea Seka factory together, left to rot. Other factories have been given to the side, to the comrade, where the mall is now, and the buildings have risen. So everyone here knows that the privatisation will result in a lock on the doors of these factories. I also wondered if an AKP MP with a sugar factory in his province would not speak. Why? Because he's probably thinking about how to face his constituents.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0089par0464	We're looking, we're looking, don't worry.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0088par0465	In the face of this privatisation, our AKP citizens express it to us. He says the workers won't be victims again. ▪ Privatisation according to the contract... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...uninhibited employees and those who didn't retire will be able to pass, he says.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0090par0469	Mr. President, there's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0088par0470	Only 10 percent of the workers will have this condition, so there will surely be a victim in the workers.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0090par0472	Mr. Türkoğlu teased Mr. Özçelik.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0091par0473	Mr. President, you're welcome. Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0092par0476	Mr. President, I'm going to pass on the CHP's speech against the Civil Code, which I don't think is true, because there was no bullying. But beyond that, let's decide which of the AK PARTY Group talks about, not the CHP. For us in Turkey, every deputy has the right to speak equally in every province. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0091par0478	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Congressmans, I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0093par0483	But the MHP Group backed me up.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0094par0484	It's all right. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0091par0486	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0095par0487	Count them, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0091par0488	The proposal was not accepted.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0095par0489	They don't know how to count, they don't know politics, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0091par0490	I beg you, Mr. Turan, you don't need these words, we're here as the Court.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0095par0491	But don't you see they're clapping?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0091par0492	Please, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0095par0493	Why are you asking me, Mr. President? Ask them, they're the ones clapping.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0091par0494	They're not taunting the Court with that word, Mr. Turan, like you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0096par0495	Sir, he's provoking it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0095par0496	We're outnumbered.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0091par0497	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. lion, you're in the system. May I have your request?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0097par0499	Sir, I'd like to make a statement yesterday regarding the ban on the entry of our friend in an Ataturk T-shirt in Congress and the naked admission of the citizen to Parliament.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0091par0500	Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0097par0503	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask Parliament Speaker Ismail Kahraman: On Tuesday (March 27th), he was removed from the Ataturk picture T-shirt, which was found on top of a citizen of ours named Jafar Dari. Number one, do you have a conscience that this citizen who visits the House should be admitted to the House naked? Two: What is wrong with citizens entering this parliament with an Ataturk picture of our great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk? What is the reason for this decision? Three: On the same day, citizens in robes, turbans, sheets are taken to Parliament, walking everywhere, but citizens carrying the Ataturk picture are not allowed in the House? Four: Isn't it because of the republic established by Ataturk, that you're sitting in the chair of the presidency, and this decision you're making is a betrayal of the seat you're sitting in? Five: Does your conscience accept this practice as the president sitting in the seat of Ataturk? Six: I demand that this grave decision, which does not befit our coven, be lifted immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0098par0513	Thank you, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0099par0514	Mr. President, is that a decision?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0098par0515	Mr. Irgil, you have a request, I'll listen to what it is first.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0100par0516	Mr. President, thank you. Since it's Library Week this week, I'd like to make an important statement about this week's library in Bursa.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0098par0518	Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0100par0520	Mr. President, thank you. In fact, I've been in this House for two and a half years, and I haven't brought it up, but because of this week's speciality, I'd like to tell you the situation of the Omar Coral Library in the Istiklal neighborhood, which was made by our own family, which was donated to the Ministry of Culture. In complete disgrace, although we donated the library years ago, there was a tremendous leap, never developed. The attitude and behavior of the members of your staff is always criticized by the neighborhood. No additional books have been given to the library so far. He walks with books only the neighborhood donated. So many citizens in the country have made such donations with good intentions, donating libraries, but the Ministry of Culture is actually, in a sense, betraying these donations spiritually. I've heard a lot of it, I've heard it, but at least I think the General Assembly will consider it because it's our family's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0101par0524	Go on, keep it on the record.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0100par0525	I mean, I know it very well, at least because it's a library that our own family built. I'm asking the Ministry of Culture to please remove the libraries from this inertia. The libraries are almost a farm. They barely let you use a whole library room, they don't. That's why I'm inviting our Ministry of Culture to pay attention to all libraries in this sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0102par0528	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. Mr. White Star, you have entered the system, your request...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0103par0530	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement last week regarding the interview of the contractors at the Credit Homes Association in Sivas.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0102par0531	Here you are, Mr. White Star.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0104par0532	What time are you going to quit, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0105par0533	There could be 15 of them.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0106par0535	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, the issue with the interview examination of subcontractors at the Credit Homes Agency in Sivas, which I carried on the agenda of the House, was widely publicised by the Speaker newspaper. The Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mr. Jülide Sarıeroğlu Director-General Sinan Aksu of the Centre for Loans and the Centre for Loans Sivas District Director Erdogan Tunisian, have been very sensitive to the issue and have solved the problem. I've made a promise here to thank them, but I hope and wish that this and such matters would be exemplary to other ministers and other bureaucrats in Turkey. He's waiting the same way for the rest of his life, thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0107par0537	Thank you, Mr. White Star. Mr. Timberboy, you're in the system.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0108par0540	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to take a stand on two cases. One of them you know -- the new Soma case, the postponement to June, and the other one the Grandkids' case. In fact, these are the cases in the House where there should be a lot more agendas and many of our citizens have lost their lives in the job murder. In particular, one of the reasons why I took the words -- serious, actually an impressive anecdote -- is that one of the relatives in the Soma case had lost 248 of our citizens on July 15th, 302 of our citizens lost their lives, and in the July 15th case, they were asked, "What kind of punishment is there in Soma?" A question that hurts their conscience.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0109par0544	Please complete, Mr. President. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0108par0546	The debate in the Soma case also makes it very clear that this disaster is not really a futrate, but how preventable it is. The second is the discovery of 60 thousand liras in the middle of the metropolitan Istanbul area, at the construction of the Toruns, at the cost of the lives of 10 workers. 60 grand isn't really a believable number for the lives of 10 workers. And that's how business killings actually came out, and why they're unstoppable, how they've always taken a stand for capital, and how the judiciary is actually under the same yoke of the same thing -- which is now the fourth delegation here -- unfortunately, in the grandkid case. Turkey is ranked number one in business killings in Europe and third in the world. It's a shame mug shot. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This council needs to take this on the agenda immediately and talk more. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0110par0552	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Ozcan, you're in the system. I'll take your request.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0111par0554	Mr. President, we've just discussed a matter brought up by our Denizli MP Kazim Bey. Regarding that, the so-called law enforcement force, which enforced this ban, stated that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has made such a decision. It's very important about him...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0110par0555	Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0111par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to express my regrets about the incident expressed by our naval MP. I can't explain to myself the removal of the T-shirt of a citizen who came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in a T-shirt under pressure to represent Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder and founder of this country. One day tomorrow, with Ataturk badges, similar practices can be made to those who come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, Mr. President, we've reviewed it with our friends, and Mr. Tanal has testified. The law enforcement force, which applied this commission to citizens, who took off his shirt, is talking about a decision made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court on this issue, and we didn't want to believe it. Mr. President, as our chairman of the House, we expect you to testify that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has not made such a decision and cannot make it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0112par0561	In the meantime, I'm going to ask the authorities for information, and I'm going to inform the General Assembly, Mr. Özcan. Mr. Turan, do you have anything to add? Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0113par0565	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm trying to follow up on the issue of the removal of the T-shirt of a expressed visitor. I don't know what reason this was made, but I think it's not right for anyone to come to the House -- except, of course, for terrorism, what they're wearing, what they're not wearing, what they're not doing, it's not doing anyone any good. I believe that we are opposed to yesterday's practice, especially since Ataturk is the founder of this country, the first president of our Parliament, should be more sensitive. I believe there's been an application error or a mistake we don't know about. I'll try to find out why. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0112par0567	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0114par0568	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0112par0569	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0114par0570	Dear President, I'm your congressman friend who was personally involved with the law enforcement officer who was wearing this Ataturk T-shirt yesterday. If you'll excuse me, I've been given this...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit01spe0112par0571	I'll give it to you now. Let's talk sometime. I'm going to inform the General Assembly as a member of the Presidential Court and Deputy Speaker of Parliament. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0112par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, in the previous merger, the members of our parliament have expressed their opinion here on a news report that came on the agenda of our Parliament, which fell on both national media and social media yesterday at the Republican People's Party group meeting. In this time-out, we have met with the officials of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, who, in this sense, served with our friends who were stationed at the security and security point of our Parliament. I have to say in particular that with the knowledge of our group's presidents, it is not, nor is it, nor is it, that any man, nor man, should insult his character, nor his name, should ever be, nor should it be, nor should it be, nor should it be, nor should it be, nor should it be, nor should it be, the one who founded this great Assembly, the Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded the republic. In this case, of course, the Parliamentary Protection Services Regulations came from a misappropriation. The process at the point of criminal action of this wrong application has begun. Today Mr. Engin Altay, our Vice President of the Republican People's Party, has appealed to our Parliament Speaker at the beginning of the necessary proceedings on those responsible. With regard to this application, I'm hoping that Mr. President will make the most of it. Therefore, there will be no disrespect to the image, name, and shirt of the founder of our Parliament, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. For your information. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, according to the decision, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place, as well as with the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 535 rows. Members of parliament, the 76/3/2018 76/1st Article of the Interior Charter was considered the main law of Article 91, where all 535 rows of the Charter were completed and were agreed to be transferred to its Articles. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 18th article. I read the first chapter: On behalf of the Groups, Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya is Mr. Mevlüt Karakaya, İstanbul MP for Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu, İzmir MP for the Republican People's Party Group. The first word belongs to our Adana MP, Mr. Mevlüt Karakaya, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0115par0024	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the first part of the first chapter of the draft bill for amendments to certain Laws and Legislative Laws under discussion. I salute you all. The bill includes a total of 33 articles. 18 of this is related to the Law on Value Tax Number 3065. 14 of these 18 articles predict changes or additions to the existing substances, two of which include the introduction of new substances and two of which include the addition of temporary substances instead of two of 38 and a half of which is equal to 60. These changes indicate a reform in the added value tax. I must say, reform is still in the middle as a need for the entire tax system. First of all, I would like to express that we need to start with the Tax Act and the Tax Tax Tax Act. Most of the changes we're talking about are just an arrangement to address practical problems. Of course, there are important ones in them, there are some in place, but there are many wrong ones and there are many missing ones. As a result, if we call it reform in the value-worthy tax, it would be a disgrace to Mr. Finance Minister and his bureaucrats, who are actually technically equipped. I'm not going to be rude like that. We all know that a reformed work should be handled with the extent of taxation, and it should be dealt with in accordance with the principles of taxation, as a whole, and as a whole, its subject, and its matrix, and its timetable. Dear lawmakers, in connection with the first chapter, have been given three topics for the bill. These are described as lifting the financial burdens due to the implementation of value-appropriation tax on companies, making it easier to implement, encouraging the transition to the registered economy. How far does the amendments to the Adding Value Tax Act apply to these reasons? First, let's ask the question: Does added value tax generate a financial burden on companies? Dear friends, the value-appropriate tax is not supposed to be a financial burden for companies. The dissonance of the collection and paid value tax can sometimes lead to a positive contribution, sometimes a negative outcome, and I want to say that in the long run, it doesn't matter much. So, what's the problem? The problem is the value tax on the circuit. And it's not just because they're incompatible, or because they're low in stock cycle speeds. The rate of rotation is entirely due to trade-related future sales policies. The main problem with this is the application of value tax. Today we're talking about a tax worth adding around $140-150 billion. Under normal circumstances, yes, what does that tell us? It shows that there's a financial burden of value on the firms, which is an important number. The most important reason for the accumulation of this number is that there are added value tax reductions, exceptions, different tariffs in different sales. You know, in 1985, when the added value tax first came into practice, there was only one recipe, no discounts and no exceptions. In particular, in recent years, we have applied some discounts and exceptions in these matters, and we have brought these practices, perhaps an incentive for some disadvantaged segments. Their reflections on businesses naturally differed, and there were these savings from the fact that the value added tax was not run in its own mechanism and philosophy, and that the return system, which should be included in its own mechanism and philosophy. So, unfortunately, the financial burden of these things also took place on businesses. So the added value tax application wasn't really supposed to happen, so the return mechanism had to work. There's an arrangement for this in the first section, but this arrangement is literally not capable of taking on the financing of the firms. We, the National Movement Party, say they need to be studied again. If possible, the withdrawal of this substance would be beneficial, and it would be appropriate to be brought back with a study. Twelve months in the current application is not enough to eliminate such a burden again for six months in its continuation. The arrangement concerning the stocks, which is about the added value tax, is very vague, and it needs to be studied in detail. Another thing was about making things easier for the practice. Was it easy? Why is it called easy? This is the gross taxation on Article 12. Dear lawmakers, added value tax is a tax calculated in real form. The goal here is to tax the value of the chain of production and distribution that participates in each delivery or function. This is a basic quality that gives value tax to add value to the added value tax. It's written on the name of this method, and the method that is brought in is called the gross taxation. It's not a added value tax, it's a new tax, it's a blessing, but with this amendment to the Add Value Tax Act, we can say that we're actually removing the added tax, and we're replacing it with a new income tax. You also want to write the VAT, which is calculated according to the amount of value tax for the purchases of goods and services. You say, "Cos or expenses depending on the situation." And you prefer this method. I want to make it clear that no one prefers such a method. In fact, the application of such a choice will not be applied -- for very specific reasons, of course -- because you're printing the tax you've brought in in the application that you've collected or calculated, but you're printing the value added tax based on the value tax you're paying. What this means is that you're going to find the difference that's going to go back in the revenue-sharing match, which naturally causes a negative situation for companies in the annual income tax or in the institutional tax. So if a added value tax is owned by the blacksmiths, it is a situation where a ten-year-old iron is added to the cost of a ten-year-old life-period, to be repaired in ten years, to be sat down and considered. So from this point of view, it's impossible to really understand where it comes from, to make it so easy or to expect millions of taxpayers to enter the system. And the fact that the Council of Ministers has been given authority to make it widely available to those who keep books comes to us as a separate challenge. In terms of the registered economy, there is no innovation brought here. I express on behalf of our group the opinion that it would be beneficial to have a significant portion of these materials drawn and restored, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0116par0035	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, it belongs to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Flitz Kerestecioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0117par0040	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, dear people, if there's going to be a tax reform, this reform should concern 80 million people. However, the bill that we are talking about concerns only the 1 percent of the country with names such as improving the investment environment. Therefore, I would like to discuss another matter that concerns 80 per cent of the country. This week, we prefer to talk about the state of the media, which is called the fourth power in democracies. Now, why should the press be referred to as the fourth power in addition to the law, the administration and the judiciary, which should be independent of one another? Because it has the power to influence public opinion as much as the first three, and therefore has a serious impact on politics and legislation. We do not obey the decisions of the government, nor will we be bound by the courts and the courts that say, "The justice is in the hands of the government, and the media, which is the fourth power, are now in the power, just as the Parliament is in the hands of the government. If we look at the pre-AKP period, as a minimum publication principle of the Turkish sovereign media at the time, the army was basically better off doing what it was doing. Now, in other words, there was often a direct parallel between the militant hierarchy and the news hierarchy, and whenever the chiefs of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, for example, whenever they spoke, every statement they made was automatically given from the scroll. Every semester in Turkey, capital media has been part of a security-based share of power. At the point where we're here today, the media is now fully singled out, serving only for the protection of power. In fact, the media should have an impact on politics, but politics is affecting the media with a stick in its hand. The reason why this pressure is not resisted or resisted by media bosses is because media bosses aren't actually journalism; they are easily threatened by massive tax fines, tender cancellations, because they are involved in different areas, such as finance, transport, energy. When this capital pressure is not enough, you can go to a trustee appointment. In our country, artificial fears are being created, as if there is a threat to the government, not to power and party, and the impact scenarios are being kept. This is something that has always found its place in Turkey's general structure. The reason Turkey has not received a serious warning in external balances, other than its internal balances, is because of the fact that media monopoly exists all over the world. But, of course, the opposition media has continued to broadcast, not just this period, but every period, with threats such as arrests, closures. I'd like to greet the Libertarian Democracy newspaper, which has faced the same threats today. In the April 16th referendum, there was no mainstream media body that said no, and the Doğan media, for example, did not mention no, and like all channels, in the referendum, the Doğan media also marketed yes. Remember, Doğan media himself fired journalists who tried to act independently like Irfan Millerci. The economic policy of the matter is also needed to be evaluated. Actually, it's not just the media, it's the palace that's monopolizing everything. We see that the capital group, which bought the media in public, grew up only by operating in eight new businesses during the AKP period. During the AKP period, yes, eight new businesses operate and grow, and in the AKP era, whoever is close to the AKP is growing with the public's money. He buys a media group, he gets rich selling public goods. Buying such a large media group also affects the opposition press in another way because distribution companies are also important. There are two basic distribution companies: Turkuvaz media, Sabah group, and YAYSAT belonging to the Doğan group. They have such effects that the risk of opposing magazines and newspapers not being distributed is also present. Another point is that in these groups, distribution companies can actually show the circulation of a press group that does not fully agree with power or is opposed to power or can actually show the media's circulation at the bottom of the truth. What does that lead to? To get more shares from the press ad agency. Thus, public resources can become more used by supporters or by their own media. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to give you more concrete examples of the consequences of this media monopoly than you'll ever look back on. You're probably watching your parties' group meetings live on dozens of television channels. O AKP, CHP, MPHP, yes, your group meetings are being broadcast live on different channels. So, do you really want to know what our last group meeting was, like, published by CNN Turk? This is our last group meeting. We will not make you president in a speech addressed to President Erdogan by our former Co-Chair, Selahattin Demirtaş. Since then, our group meetings haven't been broadcast live on CNN Turk. NTV finished it a long time ago. After that historic group meeting of Demirtaş, CNN Türk, like NTV, began not to publish HDP's group meetings. Now, as of this date, of course, other criminalization efforts and reports regarding HDP have been included as follows: For example, in the November 4th operation, the operation was a terrorist operation against the People's Democratic Party (HDP). And these headlines were used on all of our MPs taken at the time: a terrorist operation against the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). No. Let the terrorist party be shut down just after our convention. Yes, such headlines were made after the head of Pervin Buldan. Each time we arrive at the meetings of the Council of Europe, we are declared traitors, along with our beloved Ertugrul Kürkçı, who, after returning, has voted against Turkey in two treacherous MPs from the TBMM. Are we the founders here, are we not the founders of this place? Well, if we're not defending it, then what are we doing there? Let's get out of there. Or judgment, judgment decisions about us. We're looking at it, and we're not even aware of this verdict... and it's typical: Dear Ayhan Bilgen is watching his own decision on television without knowing it himself, reading it here, saying: ▪ Kars MP and Party Speaker Ayhan Bilgen has been arrested. • Ayhan Bilgen is watching this right now. Yeah, there's a lot of criminalization efforts like this. But other than that, yes, we have applications for RTÜK. For example, the AKP group meeting on January 3, 2017 is 62 minutes, the CHP group meeting is 20 minutes, the MHP group meeting is 27 minutes, the HDP group meeting is zero seconds, and they continue the same in TRT after 3 January 2017. Now, what do we see when we look at the live time of the November 1st election? For example, President Erdoğan spoke for 31.5 hours, Davutoglu spoke for 41.5 hours, Kılıçdaroğlu spoke for 6 hours, Bahçeli spoke for 2 hours, Demirtaş spoke for 18 minutes. But did it? It did, which means 18 minutes, which means enough time to talk. He spoke for 152 hours, Erdogan, 152...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0118par0056	You guys talk, too.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0117par0057	Unfinished, unsatisfactory. 152 hours...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0118par0058	You guys talk, too.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0119par0059	We're talking, and it won't come out.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0118par0060	Oh, come on! It's on Özgür Gündem.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0120par0061	I'm a sample of... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0121par0064	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0120par0065	Thank you. Likewise, between October 1st and October 31st 2015 on 12 national television channels: Davutoglu 310, Kilicdaroğlu 44, Bahçeli 29, Demirtaş 6 hours. Now, finally, let me show you what's going on with the referendum, and you'll see some interesting things in them. Look, you see those zeros over there, you guys talk, right? Between March 1st and April 15th, the President and his advisers spoke for 3,960 minutes, AKP spoke for 5,869 minutes, CHP spoke for 662 minutes, MPP 159 minutes, HDP zero, zero, zero, friends. We have a lot of words to say, but that's what's done. In the same way, you know, they talked for 806 hours here, and we only get 58 minutes on Fox TV, and he gets, like, 14 seconds. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I finish my last sentence, please?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0122par0070	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0120par0071	Yes, from the latest referendum, which was actually very, very democratically held. You can see the HDP's address is empty again. And what just happened? You've created media that can't see. And our people didn't see HDP? No, our people are seeing HDP again, and where were we, what did we say? We're not going to make you president again, and we're not going to make you president, and with all the democratic forces, we're not going to make you president, and the truth will always find the way. There is hope. We say there is hope. No matter how hard you try to silence it. None of this applies to press ethics or political ethics. With a little conscience, if you listen to what I'm saying, you'll really understand. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0123par0075	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0124par0076	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0123par0077	Mr. President, do you have a request?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0124par0078	Mr. President, I have a very short...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0123par0079	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0125par0080	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0124par0081	No. Mr. President... here you go. Thank you. We've just received some very new information, our Co-Chair, Hishyar Ozoy, at the meeting of the International Parliamentary Union in Europe, where, unfortunately, he's been subjected to an attack, as we do here at the General Assembly. Because President of the AKP delegation there, Coşkun Çakır, stated that HDP MPs were in prison because they were terrorists, then our Co-Chair tried to interrupt him with bullying during the speech of our Co-Chair and Bingol MP, and all 150 international delegations, unfortunately, have witnessed this disgrace, but this bullying and fighting failed to prevent the decision of the arrested MPs. What I'm saying is that if the public is being misled by false information, just as we are not being tolerated by our speech in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, then they have shown their true faces to the world in Europe today.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0126par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to Mr. Musa Çam, our İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Pine. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0127par0096	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the first chapter of the First Amendment to the Laws and Laws Act 535 rows. Today morning, Prime Minister Bülli Yıldırım said at the meeting that the members of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges -- Mr. Finance Minister -- did he not attend that meeting -- that we have finalised 35 articles on improving the investment environment; we have passed 96 articles on tax laws; 33 articles related to VAT have been discussed; a 67-point bag law on improving the investment climate has been drafted, and this will be transferred to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in the coming days. For about 16 years, the power -- I've been in the Plan and Budget Commission for about seven years -- has passed through Parliament a number of changes to improve dozens of investment environments like this, to improve tax law and to correct the economy, but it no longer holds stitches, and so now we're making an arrangement for VAT. No matter what major tax regulations or tax reform are called, tax changes are not a class act, not a reduction in tax revenues in the first place; on the contrary, it should increase tax revenues fairly and distribute the tax load more fairly while doing so. Because a contrary arrangement, by increasing the budget deficit, will increase interest rates, such as borrowing, printing of money, and will lead to inflation, which will result in a result that slows economic growth by moving forward, which will further deepen existing income inequality. In other words, a tax reform should not reduce public income, it should be fairly increasing or at least neutral. Because the war remains an alternative way of borrowing when it is not closed with sufficient tax revenues, as well as a structurally serious health and social security deficits for reasons such as the State of Emergency, which results in a large division of the rich by increasing interest rates and interest rates, by increasing payments to interest revenues. If tax rates are thought to be high -- especially in Turkey, VAT, ETV and workers' income tax rates are very high -- the loss of taxes due to lowering these rates can only be resolved by expanding the tax base. This will be possible with the reduction of fugitives, such as exemptions, exceptions, and discounts from wealthy people who have total capital, except for an application called tax spending, which amounts to 132 billion dollars this year, such as a minimum income reduction. In this context, the new arrangement, in turn, reduces tax revenues and gives capital new exemptions and exceptions, making the current unfair tax burden even more unfair, increasing the burden on the workers' shoulders and increasing their dependence on interest rates, with budget deficits that will result. If this regulation is adopted, the VAT, which is estimated to have reached about 160 billion, will be paid to companies by January 2019. In addition, with this arrangement, the Finance Ministry is authorized to determine how, in what conditions and in what sectors to be given, starting from the manufacturing sector, considering the budget opportunities of the VAT. On the other hand, the collection of VATs depends on paying tax reviews. Although it may seem to be in the public interest, when it comes to tax reviews, businesses, especially small businesses, will have to either not demand a refund or have to get along with the finances, so they will have to get along with political power, considering the possibility of a possible tax fine. This means that the owners of the company should not be opposed to political power. As a matter of fact, in the event that the VAT could not be downloaded within 12 months, the Council of Ministers has been appointed to extradite the twelve months from this date to twenty-four months, and the Finance Ministry to reduce the six-month period to three months, and their dependence on political power is increasingly strengthened. However, there is another fact: the VAT collection rate was 83 per cent in 2004, and in 2017, 52 per cent in 2017, and in the same years, the collection rates were reduced from 57 per cent to 17 per cent. So it's clear that when tax collections of tens of billions of dollars are currently overdue and VAT payments are not being collected, this will lead to a serious budget deficit. Such an opening will either be covered by new taxes or debt. When entering the election atmosphere, new taxes will be put on the road of debt, increasing debt limits, as it would be risky for political power. This means that interest rates are increasing and the economy is becoming more difficult, as well as the rate is getting richer. In the first part of this arrangement, VAT is zero, which is normally 8 per cent of the health care services provided to foreigners from private health institutions in Turkey and mainly to Arabs, to citizens of the Middle East. It is clear and clear to our citizens that this practice has had the impact of increasing the budget deficit and thus increasing the need for debt, as well as the fact that local patients have to pay VAT. Again, with this arrangement, the tradesman and the freelancer who keep the business book will be able to choose to pay a gross tax instead of the existing VAT, so that they can write the VAT directly and write the VAT directly in their purchase documents; the VAT, which has been downloaded or not downloaded, will pay a single tax on a scale later determined. So instead of taxing the added value created by businesses, as in the existing VAT system, there will be a different taxation, completely independent and unrelated. Another arrangement, school, health facility, student home, day care, nursing home, nursing home, nursing home, and rehabilitation centre, are currently exceptioned from VAV, in the event of forgiveness of religious education facilities, youth centres, youth and boyhood camps and similar buildings. In this bill, the property and services purchased during the construction of these buildings are also exceptioned from the VAT. Such an application can result in a direct tax loss, as well as indirect tax evasion, for example, because it can be easily abused by large construction companies. The VAT matrix is being narrowed down at construction. Editing narrows the VAT matrix for construction in exchange for land. From now on, it is understood that the land owner will only pay VAT for the dwelling or business he receives in return, and that this arrangement will also reduce the income of VAT for the land of the contractors, as well as to ease the construction sector that is in serious trouble, and that the real growth strategy will continue this strategy, which is built by housing, property, construction and bank credit networks. Customs warehouses and temporary storage spaces, which are already a partial exception, and terminal services are considered exceptions to the import and export operations of customs services, for goods and goods that are being processed under the transit regime. It is clear that tax revenues will be reduced. Again, these regulations include the exception of the value tax to add to machine equipment purchases for RD innovation and design activities. Clearly, this arrangement will result in tax loss. Under current legislation, the VAT (V) of lost goods can be reduced due to natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, and reasons the Finance Ministry considers to be overwhelming. The bill also allows for a reduction in the remaining part of the added value tax, if the economic value is lost in the case of the amortisation. Until now, there was no way to download the VAT, since the bills that came after the year had ended in businesses were not legally written in the notebook records. With this arrangement, the VAT is now able to be downloaded by the end of the following year. The decision for exporters to shorten VAT extradition time is also part of the new regulation. So as the burden of financing is removed for exporters, there is a new source of financing. From now on, freelance accountants and financial advisors will be able to form reports based on VAT extraditions. These will strengthen the symbiotic relationship between political power and various sectors and professions, while it will go down in history as arrangements to increase the burden on public financing. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, especially the download of the VAT, will bring some ease to our industrial businessmen, but in general, we're giving up taxes, and we're facing serious economic difficulties in the coming process. In particular, we need to make a serious adjustment to taxes. In income tax, institutional tax, VAT, and OTV, it is not possible to bring the economy to a good place with such palliative measures, when we should seriously edit it from start to finish. That's why we do our criticism, but we also say that we will give our support in the right materials. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0128par0116	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. Now we're going to talk on behalf of the individuals. The first speech is from our Adana MP, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Mr. Danış Beştaş, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0129par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, we'd like to open up the media agenda a little bit more. Is there really a media in Turkey that can broadcast independent of the government? We all know that, but we want to tell our people from here. I'd especially like to say to the citizens who have the opportunity to watch us on TV, please don't believe what you see in the media, consider what I'm about to tell you here. Yeah, there's five kinds of media. One, the pool media; there's the HDP enemy, you'll see it when you see it. Second, there's social media, there's a complete lynching culture under the control of the white trolls; under every message we've written, there are hundreds of insults, insults, threats, blackmail messages, and the language of hate is used to the end. White trolls sometimes fail to do their job, but they usually come out on important days. The mainstream media... although there won't be any mainstream right now, now that Doğan media is sold, he's fallen into the pool, so he's going to use the same language because he fell into the basin. In the mainstream media, there is a world without HDP; they don't see it, they don't hear it, and they don't know it; they don't have a third party; they don't have 7 million voters; they act like there's no one in this country who supports them; they argue for hours without us in open sessions; they argue without HDP, and even when we want to be connected by telephone, they don't even connect us, we can't even use our rights, and they continue with their offerings. State media, by the way, TRT. The TRT is openly committing a crime, I'm saying it out of question. The TRT stands on the tax of citizens, publishes, and HDPs pay taxes, and we all pay taxes. Don't those who vote for us pay taxes? Because it's an official channel, we're showing zero seconds, zero minutes on the TRT. There's no way we're in TRT. We're taxing, taxing, but there's no HDP, citizens are being made invisible. What's the only alternative to the press? Social media platforms remain, and as long as it can be accessed there along with the bans, it is partially accessible to healthy information. So, what's his name? It's actually called the AKP's own media, and it doesn't allow it to be spoken out of its own words. We've made reports of crimes, countless, targeted, violent, hateful statements, not one of our criminal complaints has been investigated, all of which ended with a non-obstructive verdict. In the same sentence, someone else is being punished, but the charges we make are not considered. Just like our Deputy Leader Ahmet Yıldırım said that the word of the Padişah was acquitted in the courts, but he was punished for the identity of the HDP and his deputyship was reduced. Look at the coup on November 4th and the attacks on us in these media and broadcast organs: Yes, the president: not the deputy, but the terrorist. It's on the front page. Another title, Mr. Idris Baluken, is a friend of ours who's known you very well, who's been acting as group president for years, who's been doing politics. The night he was taken into custody, they made a headline of the operation called "terrorism." Again, Ziya Pir, our congressman here is Ziya Pir. HDP has been released on probation. Another headline: you're a terrorist, here's the document. There's another headline to the eight columns where our co-Chair, Mr. Demirtaş, was targeted. The call to the street was made by MYK in person. These are not newspapers; these are AKP declarations; of course, the talks are reflected in the press. Mr. Sırrıyya has a headline for Önder. This is ours. We saluted those who came to the convention, and I, Miss Fiz, was part of it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0130par0132	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0129par0133	Look at the beauty of the photo here, laughing, with great sentimentality, we greet our tens of thousands of party members who came to Congress. How? Let's see, this is soft, but what's in the little article? They've proven their treachery once again. Our photo, our salute, our congress. We're doing our general assembly, our congress, our treason. What treason have we committed? That betrayal, according to you, was that tens of thousands of people -- 50,000 -- came to Congress despite all obstacles. This is how the media and headlines are run, and this language for HDP is certainly another example of how they work very hard at creating perception -- within the nails. In other talks, we'll share this with you, as well as the state of the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0131par0138	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0132par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0131par0140	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0132par0141	Mr. President, I'm going to file a report. First of all, the AK PARTY government, its government, its group, the group that pays the most in freedom of the press. So far, all the public knows how we got here to fight the press.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0133par0142	You've got all the press. Which one are you going to fight?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0132par0143	Are you a HDP spokesman? Let me in!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0134par0144	Please, Mr. Ozcan... Mr. Turan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0132par0146	If we're gonna run headlines, we've got a lot of headlines. If we're going to run headlines, there are headlines that don't fit this bench. In our time, we have pressed our backs against the PYD. We have seen those who say, "PKK will drown you with spit." I don't think it's right to bring court orders here and make it sound like an AK PARTY. He was good at playing the music on TV, the press style, but when he didn't, I think his bad style is another way of getting in the way of the press. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0135par0150	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0136par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0135par0152	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0137par0153	Ibrahim Kalen plays, but it doesn't work.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0136par0154	Mr. Group Vice President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0138par0155	He plays well.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0137par0156	It just doesn't work.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0138par0157	It doesn't work?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0139par0158	...obviously teased our group over my speech.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0138par0159	They expressed what Abraham Kalin had said.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0140par0160	He's not stealing anything else, that's what's important. He's playing the reed.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0139par0161	When he played the saz, he made Demirtaş a clear target, saying, "It is true that he is also a member of the family.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0141par0162	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. Let's not make a new tease.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0139par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't stop laughing while I was really listening, so I'm sure I could laugh here.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0142par0168	Very good, laugh.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0139par0169	Isn't the press free in your time?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0142par0170	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0139par0171	Yes, today you appointed trustees to the Libertarian Democracy. You printed that media at 3:00 a.m.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0142par0172	What media?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0139par0173	Even the deaf sultan knows that the press and broadcast in Turkey is not free right now.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0142par0174	The media? What media?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0139par0175	Let's not get ridiculous about this. We control the press because if what we do goes public, we can't bring peace in this country.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0142par0176	Is that the media?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0139par0177	And let's face it, because this hostile language, this other language, it doesn't get you or us. What we're trying to say here is... why do you bother playing the reed? Demirtaş plays very well, and now he's still playing the reed. You too, play, and do not be hostile to the music.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0142par0179	Let him play, you tell him.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0139par0180	You're really jealous because you can't play. I think you should play, too. And there's no point in twisting the words so much. Judicial decisions are not judicial decisions. Judgment decisions are made entirely by the government's instructions, orders, and signs. You know, you just said, "We're holding our backs." You said, "We're holding our backs." You know, it's been on TV and pool media for a year? The courts received instructions and immediately sentenced them, and they wrote down the words here for the cause. I can get you a warrant. So really, don't slander yourself about this, you're very good at controlling the judiciary or controlling the press. So you've reached a point where you can overcome Goebbels or the administration in Vietnam, and I congratulate you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0143par0183	Is that what you're saying?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0144par0184	Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0145par0186	I want to talk to you about bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0144par0187	I don't understand.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0145par0188	The EC PARTI has made allegations that the press was not free during the ruling period, Mr. Speaker, I would like to respond.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0144par0189	Don't make fun of me, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0146par0191	We criticize power.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0145par0193	Mr. President, the law we're talking about is the law on VAT. Let's discuss the law with the cold mind, with the common sense, no polemics, no tension in the assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0147par0194	What's the hurry?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0145par0195	Every time they go out, we've been witnessing conversations that have been acting as a spokesman for a certain terrorist organization, the P.Y.D.P.D., the government's demand for commercial relations about the press. But it seems very wise that you don't tweeze some headlines and bring up the headlines that cover the main criminals, but it's not. So, all the public will see that you know a mission to go to terrorist funerals, and the newspapers that do this will be a problem. You're going to say that we're not supposed to participate in the music... it's not about playing the reed, it's about playing the reed on TV and then taking over the task of being a gun silencer, that's the point. You play the reed, you come to Parliament, you pay this nation, you make your statements in the most comfortable manner, you have endured, you have endured, you have taken many images, you have endured many tribulations, and you have done so, just so there is no bloodshed. But those of you who attack everyone, who are angry at everything, who have not spoken to Afrin (Afrin) and have not spoken to them, so far, you have not been able to come out of this stand and say, "PYD is a terrorist organization." You have not sent students to the mountain, nor send young people to the mountain." I didn't hear that, Mr. Danış Beştaş. Have you ever once said that the PKK is a terrorist organization, damn it?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0148par0197	Is that what this is about? Media, come to the media.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0145par0198	Once, O people, the government took great steps to stop the blood. Come on, don't let the blood of a brother bleed in this country. Can you say the same thing when you turn around?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0148par0199	We say it every day, we say it every day.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0145par0200	So I'll say it again: we know who was in the bomb that was planted in the Star newspaper, and MLKP had gone and been congratulated. Other than that, in similar statements, we know that the Morning newspaper is the headline. When it's the paper that praises you, it's good, it's bad against you...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0149par0203	There's no paper that praises us.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0150par0204	There's no paper that praises us.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0145par0205	That's not the right approach, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0151par0207	Does a newspaper like that come out in Turkey?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0150par0208	Is there?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0152par0209	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0153par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0152par0211	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0153par0212	Yeah, he's been giving our party a lot of open teasing again. That's why I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0152par0213	You want it?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0153par0214	Yeah, I do.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0154par0215	If they can't play the reed, let them play the lute.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0155par0216	We applaud the reed. It plays well. We said.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0154par0217	Play the Ut.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0155par0218	Let Saz play, but let him say 'dur' to terror, and say 'dur' to the gun.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0156par0219	We make this call every day.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0155par0220	What's jail got to do with it?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0157par0221	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0158par0223	See, Wilson's administration says with three steps of propaganda: to create and spread narratives that make the enemy hungry for blood and freedom, to scare the public, to stir up stories that are too aggressive to share, to respond to these stories in a similar rage, to actually create a perception with propaganda. We're saying something very clear. Look, I showed you the TRT, TRT, T-R-T, the Radio Television Corporation of Turkey, the institution we're taxing, right? What am I saying, what do you see here? I'm talking live program time. HDP zero, zero. There's no such thing as like us or dislike us; it's a crime, it's a crime. We've applied to RTÜK. You guys always get up and talk about ongoing trials and lawsuits because...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0155par0224	You said it. Don't do it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0158par0225	... take the subject and, you know, create a sense of that Wilson principle, and you put it in the public, guilty, guilty, guilty.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0155par0226	Yeah, he showed me the headline, and I answered him.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0159par0227	As for the agenda, we'd like to know what you think of VAT.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0158par0228	Now we're going to the Council of Europe. I say, look at the Council of Europe, if you don't understand, I'll show it again. We're coming back from the European Council. I say, we're having a normal conversation, we're asking the Secretary General questions, and they're calling it the traitor. I'm calling it a judgment decision. I say Ayhan Beyin. He hasn't learned it yet. I've just been very convincing, and his mother called to say, "Have you been arrested again?" By the way, Ayhan Beyi. Really, he gets up, he learns from it, from TV. He's been arrested. He says, "He's not arrested yet, he's watching TV." Now, with all this out in the open, you, HDP-speaking press, and some of the men-man-to-man conversations have been taken out there all the time, when there's not only HDP people, you don't feel any of that, do you? That's what we're talking about, okay? You know, I'll say it again.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0160par0230	Keep your distance from terror.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0158par0232	But if İbrahim Kalin can't play well, there's nothing we can do, sorry.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0161par0234	We've put our backs to terror. You won't say it. Then we've put our backs to the PKK. You won't say it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0162par0235	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Congressmans, the speeches are complete on behalf of the individuals. Now I'm going to start the question-answer process in 15 minutes. Mr. Arslan, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0163par0242	I'm asking the Minister of Finance: Will this bill -- 535 -- which has changed the value tax we're talking about, benefit the public to collect effective, fair, transparent taxes? Two: As this bill continues to give certain sectors VAT exceptions, exemptions and tax returns advantage, will the subject of taxation deviate from its true purpose? Three: Would it not be more appropriate to reduce tax rates collectively and facilitate collection rather than fill the system with exceptions with changes intended in VAT? Four: Do you intend to support high-tech production and lower VAT to increase domestic production? Five: This VAT bill, which does not preclude tax reform, will allow for the continuation of the informal economy. Are you considering a new arrangement? Six: In our taxation system, the VAT is received. When are you going to start taking the VAT from the value of the property? Stop buying VAT from the OTV. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0164par0249	Thank you, Mr. lion. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0165par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the family's hunger limit of 4 people was $1,663, according to Turkish-BiH research in March 2018. The poverty limit has been declared at $5,416. The increase in kitchen inflation has been estimated at 1.60 per cent per month and 12.29 per cent 12 months. A person's monthly income cost was estimated at $2,055. With every day's increases, these numbers are folded every day. Do you think there's any improvement in the major victimized tradesmen, laborers, pensioners, civil servants' fees? Retirers have been victims for years. Is it possible to give 2018 hope? In 2018, how many teachers, how many health workers are considered to be employed? What's the number of subcontractors? What about all the subcontractors that weren't assigned? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0166par0257	Thank you, Mr. Gürer. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0167par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I've said this many times before, once again, that our citizens who build houses on treasured land in Hatay are seriously victims. Despite the sale of treasury land all over Turkey, Hatay has a herift. Why? This is against the principle of equality of the Constitution. I've expressed it before, and we just want to say that for 30 years, our citizens who built houses on treasured land in Hatay have not been given the deed, even though they've been paying their taxes for 20 years. Once again, I'm going to say here, and I'm going to ask the AK PARTY members of Hatay for support: really, our citizens are victims. The people of Hatay are not second class, they shouldn't be. Once again, I'd like you to consider this in the Council of Ministers. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0168par0263	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Mr. Sugar? No. Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0169par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, according to Turkish Traders and Artists Confederacy data, over 20,000 trades went bankrupt in the first two months of the year 2018. Over the past four years, there have been over 430,000 tradesmen bankrupting. SMEs and tradesmen who are the basis of the economy are in debt. When you say, "Don't borrow money, don't borrow money, get a partner." It's a big contradiction when you say, "The government has recently taken a serious debt." While dollars break records every day, the number of unemployed is up to 3.5 million, the fact that the power playing with numbers in double digits is not enough to hide the facts. Business expects economic and political steps to ease markets, from the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0170par0269	Thank you, Mr. Pineak. Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0171par0271	Thank you, Mr. President. I brought up six years of contract teachers' spouse status, apology transfer demands and their victims last week, Mr. Secretary. After that request, the contractors asked me to reach out to you and bring up their problems. In accordance with Article 4/B of State Officers Act 657 and Article 663 KHK 45/1, contract health personnel are unable to request a transfer from the institution they have been assigned to for six years. Because of the lack of family integrity, their family order has been broken, their spouses, their children are separated, most importantly, their work performances have fallen, and their demands for a six-year period of study to be done, and that the public status differences should be ended, and I'm sending it to the government through you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0172par0274	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0173par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister directly. Mr. Secretary, there's something I'm having trouble understanding. Now, in 2002, 2002, the barrel of oil was 125 U.S. dollars in the international market, but then in Turkey, the price of gasoline is 0.98 cents, so it's not even $1. Now the price of oil in international markets is around $60, so it's down to half, but Turkey is up to $1.5.6. I can't explain it with any logic, I'm not an economist, I'm a lawyer. You're economists, I wonder how you're going to tell the community. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, do you or do you not consider it the government's decision to reduce taxes to lower oil prices?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0174par0279	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0175par0281	Mr. Minister, the province of Schepeli has taxed 79 billion euros in 2017 and has been the 1st province where taxes are collected by 92 per cent, so you've received about 11.5 per cent of the taxes paid in Turkey, about 12 per cent of the tax collected tax. When you receive this, the number you envisioned as public investment for the year 2018 is only 451 million liras, which is about 0.2%. Compared to the provinces, we see the second most tax-paying province in Turkey as the last province. When do you intend to pay the tax that is rightfully due to the solution to this problem, or to the solution of the problems in Ezekiel? What kind of work do you have on this?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0174par0282	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Yurdakul...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0176par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, will you give me the amount of wear and tear that the health workers have been waiting for for so many years? My second question: when the paramedics were both working...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0177par0287	Minister, a word of advice about Mr. Tanju's question: there's a brochure from the Ministry of Energy...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0178par0288	Wait a second!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0179par0289	Please, Mr. Akar... Mr. Yurdakul, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0180par0291	Then let me ask you again: will you approve of the long-awaited waste of health care as Minister of Finance? Second: Will you approve the increase in health workers' wages and especially in pensions? Third: Will you approve as Minister of Finance that the return capital that health workers receive while they're working is reflected into retirement? Fourth: Are you going to provide any other staff besides the 27,000 staff you've given the assistant medical staff this year, because believe me, they've found 470,000? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0181par0296	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. Last question, Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0182par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, about 2,500 acres of land have been assigned to the village of Erdemli Arpaç Bahşış in the village of Arpaç Bahşış, where the villagers who had survived the massacre of the heads of the chiefs came and settled in Erdemli. But the chieftains didn't come and settle the villagers in Erdemli. The quality of this land is 2/A. The land was later built by our righteous citizens in Arpaç Bahşish, about 500 houses, mostly two stories high, and all 2,500 acres of land are now full of narcissistic gardens. However, right now, this place has become a forest again because of the cancellation of the allocation. 2/A has been cancelled, and about 3,000 residents have been notified to leave their homes and leave the land. Now speaking at the Agriculture, Forest and Village Affairs Commission, I would like to extend my regards to within the scope of the removal of this land of Arpaç Bahşşşı and to the return of about 500 buildings to the owners of the building.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0181par0300	Yes, lawmakers, the question has been completed. Now, Mr. Secretary will answer these questions. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0183par0303	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Arslan has made some assessments and suggestions regarding the current value-worth-of-a-tax bill. To rephrase: As this bill is being drafted, almost all civil society organisations related to the economy have been interviewed, written opinions have been met, multi-regional meetings have been held, other national examples have been examined, very comprehensive meetings about the problems faced in implementing the existing law. You went to the shop rooms, you went to the industrial rooms, you really did a lot of assessments on VAT, the areas of the current law that have been problematic have been identified one by one. In 1985, areas where this law did not meet today's needs were determined 33 years later, and the bill presented before our General Assembly was established. If a law meets the expectations of society, responds to the demands of society, facilitates their future demands, helps them to address their needs, changes the system to a significant degree of fundamental parameters, it's a reform. It doesn't matter if you or I call this law "e." The citizen looks at this law from the window of need, and when this bill was shared with the public, he really took great pride in the broader communities and economic environments, from our citizens, from our tradesmen, from our businesspeople, from our industry. Society is waiting for this law. There's also a great expectation that he'll be legalized as soon as possible. In this regard, it would be wrong to look at the issue at the point of reform. In addition, I have explained earlier that the work we do as the Ministry of Finance for the Law on Values of Addence is not just this bill. In the previous period, we made some exception arrangements, reduction arrangements, and tax reductions, depending on the needs of the economy. I'm surprised today. For fifteen years during the EC PARTY administrations, tax rates have been significantly reduced from education to clothing for sixteen years, tourism to health, basic foods. Tax rates have been reduced in many areas today. In order to increase domestic production in areas the economy needs, VAT rates for investment have been cut for production. Therefore, while drafting the bill here, I would like to say that it is also unfair to consider that there has been no work done on discounts and exceptions that should be held in the Add Value Tax Act. In the period of EC PARTY governments, whenever a need has arisen regarding the Law on Valued Taxes, we continue to do so. You know, tax rates aren't regulated by the law alone. The Adding Value Tax Act sets a standard rate, and the Council of Ministers can vary rates around this standard. I've already explained that as the Ministry, we're currently working on an impact analysis of value tax rates. If this study has always considered all the discounts we've ever made, we'll also make other discounts. And, dear friends, there was nothing to criticize, there was no such thing. It's easy to say, "Bring a suggestion and let's hear it too."
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0184par0307	Here's a suggestion.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0183par0308	So if you have a concrete suggestion... it's not just theoretical suggestions.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0185par0309	You're not listening. We're bringing it in, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0183par0310	I'll tell my master that it's not just about the exceptions, but about the needs of society, about getting into the matrix of the law, about getting into it, about getting into it, about getting into it, I'll tell you that it's not about the exceptions. Bring suggestions that touch society, about the needs of society. I'd also like to say that I resent your unfair criticism of a bill that is so adopted by society, with empty rhetoric, without suggestions. Mr. Gürer, the officer has made an assessment of the pensioners. I mean, I respect that. We AK PARTY governments have always made important arrangements to increase the welfare of our employees, pensioners, workers, and increase their income. Today, the net salary of an officer, a worker, a pensioner, compares with inflation, compared with other things, is far above 2002. As a government, we have expanded the economy, and on the one hand, we have taken steps to increase the welfare of all social communities. And from these, the workers have their share, and We will increase them even more. We always do whatever it takes, in line with our employees, in line with the needs of the country. Mr. Topal, we're talking about Hatay, we're trying to work something out. We'll continue to discuss that with you from time to time. Mr. Pineak mentioned bankruptcy. As far as I know, business is open, business is closed, so closing every business doesn't mean bankruptcy. Growth figures for 2017 will be announced tomorrow. As of the end of 2017, Turkey's economy has seen more than 7 per cent growth. About 1,500,000, $1,600,000...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0186par0315	Why can't we see it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0187par0316	Where is he, Mr. Secretary? Citizen's got a hole in his pocket.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0183par0317	E, you need eyes to see. There are glasses, but you can't see them.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0187par0318	Yeah, yeah. You have one, but you're looking at it from a different point of view, and I'm looking at it from a different point of view.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0188par0319	Mr. Secretary, there are eyes and glasses, but no growth, no growth.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0187par0320	There's no growth.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0321	Dear friends, see, see, see, no problem.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0187par0322	People don't see anything.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0323	I just want people to see it. People appreciate it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0190par0324	We're the people, are we aliens?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0187par0325	You're making everything look so pink in your advocacy press.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0326	Mr. President, I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0191par0327	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0328	Mr. Özdemir, I can tell you that regarding healthcare workers, our health department's request has come up with a positive opinion from our State Staff President. As of today, hopefully -- we'll get more, but -- we'll sign a signature on 9,000 contractors. So in the coming months, we're going to make another arrangement for additional recruitment of healthcare workers, but today, the Ministry of Finance will approve the purchase of 9,000 health workers. Mr. Ozcan, oil prices weren't $120 in 2002...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0192par0330	$125.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0331	...only $28.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0192par0332	$125.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0333	I'm surprised you never learned those numbers.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0192par0334	$125, check it out.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0335	The oil barrel cost $28 in 2002. Please get these numbers right.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0192par0336	On the way here, whoever gave you those numbers gave you the wrong information.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0337	These numbers are correct. If you're wrong, get out of the chair and admit it's wrong.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0192par0338	You've been tricked, you've been deceived.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0339	We weren't tricked. You think he's fooling people, but no one believes you anyway. Mr. Akar, it's about Bigeli... the backbone of our economy.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0193par0341	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0342	We're taking all kinds of investments to the family. He collects taxes and the economy's dynamo.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0193par0343	What investment are you making?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0344	And we admire the Elders, and we admire you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0193par0345	The last county, Mr. Secretary, the last province.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0194par0346	Please, Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0189par0347	Mr. Yurdakul, our work on the loss of pensions will, hopefully, be concluded soon. Mr. President, they've already given us the good news. So we're working with the Minister of Health. That's what our Minister presented in the Council of Ministers. Hopefully we'll have some good news soon. Mr. Lightning, let's find out the details of the Grassin Virtue issue, so I'm not available right now. Let's investigate, whatever it takes, and take steps to solve the problems of our citizens there. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0195par0350	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Altay, I believe you have a request.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0196par0352	I have a point.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0195par0353	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0196par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in response to the questions that our members of our group have raised to him, in terms of non-profit rhetorics, which are not relevant, in fact, to all of our MPs who are asking questions, I am obliged to respond separately to this taunt on behalf of the group, if you please, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0195par0356	Come on, Mr. Altay, let's not get into any more trouble.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0196par0360	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, God is a witness, and you know that every bill you bring to the Plan and Budget Commission, every proposal, with the constructive contributions of the Republican People's Party Plan and Budget Commission, is getting a little bit more smooth. However, I am offended and offended by your saying that the Republican People's Party is empty and unprovoked. It's your job to preserve the government's treasure, its safe, and it's your duty to keep it fair and square. As a matter of fact, neither we nor my friends are saying that this law is at its lowest point wrong. Surely this law will benefit our citizens, our industrialists, our tradesman, our business man. But how, though, do you expect us to view it as enough as opposition? It gets better. The best of the best.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0197par0363	I'm sure of it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0196par0364	We do our proposals, our assessments and criticism of the bill and proposals that come to Parliament with this understanding, thinking that the best of our beloved nation is worthy of the best. As a matter of fact, we have a motion on every item. With the warnings of our Plan and Budget Commission, our commissioner and our members, I assume you'll withdraw some of the clauses from this bill. These are good things. This House has one job -- I always say -- this House doesn't have a second job. This House is for the peace, prosperity and happiness of the nation. We, the Republican People's Party, have nothing else to do with it. In this regard, all the questions that our friends point to you are filled with questions that address the problems of the nation with a sense of finding solutions. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0198par0367	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0199par0368	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0198par0369	Mr. Secretary, I believe you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0199par0373	Mr. President, I listened very carefully to the speech of our group president. I thank him. In no way have I ever used the expression of empty words about the words of our fellow MPs, who are part of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0200par0375	I swear to God you did.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0199par0376	No, I didn't, we can look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0200par0377	You told me to die.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0199par0378	Let's look at the transcripts together.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0200par0379	But that's the expression.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0199par0380	No, no, I mean it in a positive way, so I wouldn't say that.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0200par0381	You did. I want the transcripts.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0201par0382	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0199par0383	I mean, we work here with all our friends, we have different ideas, I respect that. I didn't use that phrase, I want to share it with you in particular. In the Plan and Budget Commission, all of our fellow lawmakers, all of our party groups, have contributed to the improvement of the bill, and I thank them in front of you. That's the main duty of the House. So consider my speech in this framework, or I thank all the party groups for all the contributions to the bill.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0201par0385	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. Members of parliament, there are three motions on the first article, two of which are the same property. The first two motions I make are the same. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the Law Bill 535 is removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Imam Taşçıer Osman Baydemir Behcet Yıldırım Sibel Yiğitalp Dilek Ocalan The signatures of the other motion are: Mevlüt Karakaya Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Erkan Akçay Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu Saffet Sandzak Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Lightning Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0202par0410	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0201par0411	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0203par0412	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0201par0413	Those who want to speak on the proposals: Ertuğrul Kürkçı İzmir, Baki Simsek Mersin. Mr. Baki Simsek, our Congressman of Mersin, please.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0204par0416	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 1 of the 1st Amendment to the Laws and Laws Act 535. A new implementation of construction jobs in exchange for land and construction, in exchange for the entire plot of land by the owner of the land, has been carried out as part of a plot of land that has hit the construction sites and homes and businesses, and in exchange for the share of the construction by the contractor. In this regard, we view the arrangement here as positive, but we also feel that regulations made by considering just a certain section of the Add Value Tax Law are not right. So, given the entire arrangement here, the arrangement on taxes, it's not just about one sector... So now we're doing an arrangement on the contractors. For God's sake, is there a buy-in in Turkey? All the contractors are worried about collecting bills while they're building. Look at the amount of iron, cement used in the project, the amount of iron, cement collected; look at the actual sales figures of the apartment, look at the track prices shown on the deed. There will be a lot of incompatibility here. In addition, when only in the sector, contractors do not receive bills, especially in labor-related services. So there's 250-odd pencilworks today that do plaster, do electrical work -- and there's not a lot of construction -- and there's not a lot of workers who can bill contractors who can do this kind of work. And since the contractor can't get a bill, he's now on his way to filling this invoice with more bills than materials, iron, cement, other sectors, the project. We're actually kidding ourselves, so we're saying we're going to get 18 percent VAT, we're going to get 20 percent income tax; we're not actually getting 18 percent VAT, we're not getting 20 percent income tax. So we're thinking that if this were reduced to real numbers, it would be better if more healthy work was done on it. Also, even though some companies do business in other sectors... he actually runs an oil station in the fuel industry, where he gets more than a VAT, this VAT builds to melt more. Now think about the fuel industry, the construction industry, the company, the same company, but what does that have to do with it? One company wants to use 18 per cent of the VAT here because it sells fuel, and another company just builds, and it has no such advantage; the two companies will compete on the same terms. We also feel that these are incompatible with competitive conditions. So the VAT that the company in the fuel industry is going to pay for fuel should be evaluated there, pay the tax, and the one about construction should be subject to a separate assessment. And also about the land taxes, especially from the land, people say, I bought the land. It's shown as a field, and it's processed in the deed at very low prices; there's a construction coming from behind, maybe 20, 30 times the price of the same land, 40 times the price. There's got to be some kind of zoning tax, so it shouldn't be passed on. In Turkey, 50 per cent of the economy is now returning to the construction sector. In fact, it's not right that he's so dependent on the construction industry, but unfortunately, millions of dollars of housing are being built in Turkey right now. Everyone spends maybe 20, 30 years buying an apartment for their children's future with the loan they're going to pay to this apartment and spending on it. It has to be edited. Also, surely, in the areas where companies do business, like a company in Mersin, the IRS is in Silopi. We're asking: why is that, Silopi? Because the state can't control it like they did in Mersin, where they don't ask for the bill or the expense. Or the company's factory is in Mersin, where the dust is drawn from the soil, like the glass industry, like the bottled glass, like the CHIMSA. The tax offices of these companies are in Istanbul. I mean, that city is suffering all the suffering from that firm, but it can't get enough of the tax paid, Mr. Secretary. During last year's talks, I've been talking about these issues here, but there's been no serious solution. I'm healthier by considering these issues... so if a construction company is a contractor in Mersin, why is the IRS being the silopi, or why is it another province? Is it possible to explain that? The reason for this is obvious, and everyone knows why, but unfortunately, they don't make the necessary arrangements for this, and they're using this legal space as an ulterior motive, which leads to unfair competition in the market. I wish you well, with these thoughts and feelings, to the best of the bill.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0205par0426	Come and ask us, half is in Istanbul.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0206par0427	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Ertuğul Kürkçı is the signator of the other motion. Mr. Furry, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0207par0431	Mr. President, my dear friends, the number of apartments in his name is being paid according to the number of apartments that he will pay for the VAT. In the current case, the VAT costs of dwellings vary by 8 per cent and 18 per cent according to the cost of cost. However, it is evident that by editing, the VAT matrix is consolidated and the builders are encouraged. The question of how to compensate for the tax loss of this arrangement is not answered. By means of the arrangement, the land owner or contractor is legally avoiding the VAT (KDV) to which he should pay. It's obvious that there's a legal avoidance that should be based on taxation in a place where there's huge Rant resources. Now, first of all, the extraordinary powers brought to the Council of Ministers by the Constitution in the VAT are in fact enforcing the principle that taxes should be put on the law and replaced with the law. Almost none of the countries with developed economies outside the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey have such broad powers of the Council of Ministers. Actually, we're dealing with a constitutional problem, so let's just say that. Article 73 of the Constitution states: "Everyone is obliged to pay taxes according to public costs, according to their financial power and so on and so on. ▪ Taxes, images, mortars and so on. (In the last joke, the Council of Ministers often use that authority to make changes in the upper and lower bounds of the law in favor of the wealthy.) This, in particular, is an unprecedented coverage and width in European Union countries, where Turkey has had a very difficult time adjusting its accession conditions under the Maastricht Agreement. In that respect, in spite of everything, the principle of social justice, although it is a constitutional principle, it thinks that the government is not facing any constitutional obstacle, a moral obstacle, a political obstacle, by making tax regulations that look after the interests of not 99 per cent, but 1 per cent. As the minister answers the questions, we have done things that we are obliged to do and that are not in the way of doing them. We can see that he is taking his power from here. So, I think we're not just dealing with a legal and government issue, we're dealing with a constitutional issue. In fact, the House should think about it and not give the Council of Ministers such broad powers. Every correctional application to the Constitutional Court in this framework has been returned from the Constitutional Court to this day. Therefore, there is no obstacle after the House has given its way. That's what this is about, will the Clave let it go? Will parliament agree with these arrangements to give up public revenues to make the rich richer in order for the economy to see jobs in any case, to give up and give them the impression that the economy is returning, that the economy is growing? As far as I'm concerned, it will. Well, what could have talked him out of it? But a strong press, a strong media could have talked him out of it, but -- our group vice president just said it so beautifully -- there should have been a fourth force. In fact, in other countries, in capitalist countries, this fourth force has already been added to the third force by force by force, and in Turkey, we actually need a fifth, but we need an independent media that can only shed light on the public's needs, an independent media that is moving through the public's needs, a pressure can be created on parliament. A public pressure could only deter Congress from the government's desire to protect these ambitious, rich people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need to finish...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0208par0435	Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0207par0436	Unfortunately, right now, we face an economic, political, cultural, media-medial regime that completes extremely heavy tax laws in this direction, along with heavy pressure on the media. So I'd like to say that the House should consider it. Why, indeed, would he say yes to such a course without measures to place such a tax income? To give the economy a high sense of flying, nothing else. Basically, there will be nothing to do but open up the contractor's class for construction and construction operations, which do not provide any value for any contribution. So if there's no free media, then there's zero chance that there's a Parliament that protects the interests of the public, because the media is now a device for the execution, and Congress has already gone down that road. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0208par0439	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I'm reading the other motion on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 535th Amendment of the 1st Amendment of the Law shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Utku Çakırözer Sibel Özdemir Ömer Fethi Gürer The following sentence has been added to Article 5 of Article 2 (5) of Add Value Tax Law 3065, dated 1-25/10/1984. In the application of this Law, construction is considered a property or business delivery by the owner of the land for the property or the business, for the land of the contractors, for the land of the land. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0209par0454	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0208par0455	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0210par0456	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0208par0457	Mr. Tanju Özcan is our member of the Bolu MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0211par0461	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have just had a question-and-answer procedure here. Of course, Mr. Minister's response was necessary by our group vice president. Now, the year 2008, when the price of oil went up to $125 in international markets, where I slipped my tongue, I said, "Secret 2002." But, Mr. Secretary, as if it were a big deal, he made it sound like he was trying to deflect the essence of it, laughing at the bureaucrats in the back as if he had scored a goal for me, and he said something in a way that he didn't mean it. Mr. Secretary, first of all, the finance ministers all over the world are the most serious people in that cabinet, and they should be, and I expect you to be. Second: I said the price of oil went up to $125 in 2008. Then how much is it? 2.78. Now what? It's in the international markets that's been cut in half. The price of oil is up in Turkey for $6, the price of gas is up in six liras. How much does a dollar pay? Even with the dollar up, it's $1.50. $1.50. Mr. Secretary, I now understand why Mr. President sometimes makes very interesting speeches.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0212par0465	Mr. Secretary's on the phone.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0211par0466	Of course, when there's a Minister of Finance like you in this cabinet who gives a tip to Mr. President, why are you giving such a speech to Mr. President? What does he say, Mr. President? He's giving a speech in Giresun, quote-unquote, a story of 16 years of success in the economy. What example does he give? It's an example over the toilet, the price of the toilet. What was it? Sixteen years ago, you were going to the toilet for $1 million, and now we've dropped six zeros, and you're going to $1. Now, I understood why Mr. President was having this conversation when I saw this Minister of Finance today.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0213par0467	Mr. President, this is not a personal conversation.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0211par0468	Mr. Secretary, look, while we're on the subject of oil prices, I'd like to offer you a few more suggestions. Look, Turkey's annual need for oil is about 25 million tons. We get 1.2 million tons of this from Azerbaijan. When you came to power, Turkey's need was about 10 million tons, and we were still taking 1.2. Why, let's give the Azerbaijan government 40 percent off. We don't want to increase the amount of oil we get from Azerbaijan? You were a local and a national government. Instead of buying oil from Friend and Brother Azerbaijan, why are you trying to get more money from other countries by giving them dollars? I'd like to know the answer to that. Oh, and I have to say, it's a good thing we're six out of zero, or you know what? Do you know that in 2012, you put money on these guys, $1, if you didn't get six zeroes out of the money, you'd be putting $1 million down, and you'd do that account again?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0213par0470	It's not funny, it's not funny. What were you doing in Asia?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0211par0471	Congressmans, I've just sent a message to AKP Gaziantep MP Shamil Tayyar. I've just seen him backstage. I'll say something to your speech. Please come to the General Assembly. Congressmans, I won't let you forget this. What did Shamil Tayyar say on TV ten days ago? The stock exchange was established. He said, "There's an evacuation of the million dollars in this country." He said. Did he say that? The Attorney General has been pressured, threatened, and threatened. Who's on the move about this? The head of the HSK made a statement, and he said: "Samil Tayyar (Samil) has nothing to complain about. I said that I have a complaint. Mr. President -- I reported it in writing -- that's what Shamil Tayyar said on that TV show, and I asked him at the General Assembly. I said, "Here's the speech report from the General Assembly." I said, "The Ankara Chief Prosecutor has not taken action on this matter." I'm asking where the Ankara Chief Prosecutor is, where the television programme is being held, where it's being published. There's an evacuation of the million dollars. It says, "The stock exchange has been established." He says there's been a threat to an attorney general in this country, and there's been a threatening restraining order. Even though I texted him, Mr. Shamil Tayyar won't come to the General Assembly, but he's backstage drinking tea. Guys, is that a thing? How sincere are you in your fight with this ▪? Look, our President-General said on Tuesday: we've always asked here, we've always asked here, isn't that where the political foot of Wasn't the political foot of...... he entered the hospital, entered the post office, entered the courthouse, went under that roof, but he didn't get under that roof, did he? Do you expect us to believe that? The more we asked you about the political foot of Å, the more you insisted on not answering it. Mr. President, I need an extension to...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0214par0475	You have time, Mr. Ozcan. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0211par0477	On Tuesday... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On Tuesday, Mr. President-in-Chief said something in his group speech, he said: "The political foot of ا is sitting in the palace. You should have broken down over it, but unfortunately you act as if you weren't surprised, as if you weren't at all surprised.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0215par0480	There's nothing wrong with it, it's a total lie, even society doesn't believe it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0211par0481	We call it a terrorist organization. We say that there is a terrorist organization, and the political foot of Mr. President is sitting in the palace, and so far a republic's prosecutor is not starting to process it. What are you saying? He's not saying anything, he's not starting an investigation into the person he's accusing. What kind of country do we live in? You've never had any intention of fighting the army, and it's not going to happen again. Look, just as there is a connection between ADD and the Republican People's Party, as there is a connection between the Ülkü Januarys and the MPP, as there is a connection between the PKK and the HDP, unfortunately, you have the same connection with this organisation.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0216par0484	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0217par0485	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0218par0486	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0216par0487	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0217par0488	He teased our group when the speaker talked about the connections with the group. I'd like to answer, if I may.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0216par0489	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0217par0493	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to say that I don't find the position of a long-standing deputy, such as the speaker, very attractive when he leaves the bench. This is the people's bench, and I think it has a kind, discreet approach here as we go here, and I don't think it's appropriate, and I don't think it's appropriate for the voters. Mr. President, the president of the CHP has been confronted with the disease of Mitomani, the spokesman of our party on that day with a street mouth, with an accusation that would be unbecoming to the president of any party, which has already become a subject of medicine, not politics, but medicine. Look, a lot of things can be said, but I'll tell you this: Turkey's best chance at fighting Å is that a determined leader like Recep Erdogan, who loves his nation, who knows what the hell is going on in this fight. If it weren't for our President's determination today, your attitude, your style after December 17th, the way he stood in line in his banks, the way he stood in line in his newspapers, it would still be the number one threat in this country today, but, thank God, after we saw what they were doing after December 17th, we got into a huge fight, the whole world saw it. Sometimes you even said we were moving forward in our struggle, so don't do so much. But I'll say it again: If you open up the political debate of Å's foot, you'll be overwhelmed. The way we acted after we saw what those were, especially after you turned out to be an organization, your lines in their banks' tails, your desks in their newspapers, and your ongoing relationships have been the biggest problem. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0219par0498	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0217par0499	Look, dear friends, we're talking about VAT, but Mr. Ozcan, as usual, came in, read his own agenda and left. This is not a right approach; this is not fair to parliament; this is an approach to the position of political respect on Turkey's agenda. Let's talk about it, we'll talk about VAT, we'll talk about the tradesmen's expectations, we'll talk about the workers' expectations. But come up with three or five memorized sentences, go around expressing the same issues, that's not the right approach, that's not helping anyone. And then -- very soon, Mr. Altay -- probably because of our conversation about political feet -- I say, "If you're going to argue about political feet, look in the mirror, please, look in the mirror." Has the deputy been nominated? It's done, people. Have you been counseled, those who have been punished? Done. We've had great distances in every election by firing them and taking precautions, but we haven't seen the CHP's attitude so far; rather, their relationship after being an organization has become known to the world. Again, I invite you to look in the mirror about this, to stand firm. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0220par0503	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Here you go, Mr. Danış Beştaş, it's your turn.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0221par0505	Mr. President, as much as the CHP's orator has teased me, I don't want to talk about bullying, I'm just going to say it for the record.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0220par0506	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0221par0509	First of all, I'd like to express that we find this tone unacceptable and condemn it. This statement is disrespectful to democratic politics and the will of the people by showing the PKK and HDP together in this manner -- I will not speak in that manner. Indeed, I am the main opposition party. A party's orator who says, "I am the main opposition party." It also increases the promise, but it also supports the language of power. We condemn how effective the government's blackmail of the CHP, the opposition, is to give the public a different image. The other thing is, today I actually wanted a promise for him at the same time. While Mr. Minister is here, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights... of the Memorial of Human Rights... let me take it from the top; there is a Human Rights Memorial in Kosuyolu Park in Diyarbakir, and there is a Universal Declaration of Human Rights written on it, which has been removed today, and we have met with law enforcement authorities.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0220par0512	Complete, Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0221par0513	We contacted the police department, and the police department said, "We don't know anything about this. " But there's a huge reaction in Diyarbakir, we've received hundreds of messages. So we're in a time zone where even the Universal Declaration of Human Rights has been lifted and no explanation has been made. We demand that Mr. Secretary be hanged at least as soon as possible and bring out those responsible.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0220par0514	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0222par0515	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0220par0516	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0222par0518	Thank you, Mr. President. A number of comparisons in the speech of Mr. Tanju Özcan have gone through extraordinary and wrong examples. First of all, as legitimate political parties claim to be connected to certain organizations and foundations of legitimate NGOs, the parties they claim are related to illegal terrorist organizations -- because that's what they claim -- are different issues. For one thing, such associations as the Ülkü Januarys, the Ataturkian Thoughts, are legitimate, legal, supervised NGOs. As a result of democracy, there may be a preconception and a tie, which, as I said, is legitimate, legal, and manageable.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0223par0522	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0222par0523	In that respect, comparison and comparison have been extraordinarily wrong. He has to make this correction himself. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0223par0525	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0224par0526	He can't. He's gone. He's talking, he's leaving.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0223par0527	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0225par0529	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, in our congressman's speech, the PKK-HDP relationship stems from AKP rhetoric. So, he says: "You are as you are with the PKK as you are with the HDP."
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0226par0531	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0227par0532	We got it right.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0228par0533	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0229par0534	I mean, it's not right for us to make the PKK-HDP connection. I'm one of those who believe that every member of parliament and every legal party in this parliament are here under the existing constitution and laws and by the choice of the nation. On the other hand, I commend the General Assembly on the sensitivity of Mr. Akçay. There is a relationship between MHP and Ülkü Januarys; this is a known, official, organic relationship.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0230par0536	There is.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0229par0537	He didn't mean that in a critical way. It's between CHP and ADD.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0230par0538	There is, and we say there is.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0231par0539	What did he mean by that?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0229par0540	What did he mean by that? With the MHP... do you reject the Ülkü Januarys?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0231par0541	Tell me what he thinks of his Ülkü Januarys!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0229par0542	I mean, what's that got to do with it? I'm telling you, for God's sake!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0232par0543	Mr. Altay, just a moment... Guys...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0229par0545	Don't ask me that analogy, ask the AK PARTY about it. On the other hand, of course...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0233par0548	Why are you singing AK PARTY?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0234par0549	Why, did our party talk?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0235par0550	What do you think of the Ataturist Thought Society, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0236par0551	One second, let's turn on the microphone, Mr. President. Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0237par0553	On the other hand, I'm trying to express that there's no ulterior motive here.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0238par0554	I say no more intentions, but I say the comparison is wrong.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0237par0555	That's right, it could have been wrong. The General Assembly will do his credit, and you will do ours, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0238par0556	If you'll excuse us, we'll...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0237par0557	No, no, I didn't say that as an answer.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0238par0558	You're pushing too hard, Mr. Altay. Don't push too hard.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0237par0559	Now, this is the place, but there's something else. Mr. Bulent Turan is the president of our...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0238par0560	Do you have any contact with the Athletic Thought Society? Tell me about him.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0237par0561	I do.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0238par0562	So, why don't you tell me?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0237par0563	Not organically, but in spirit, yes. We don't refuse.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0238par0564	Organicly, yes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0239par0565	Address the General Assembly, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0237par0566	We're all related to Ataturk, that's different. Mr. President, I would also like to say that, of course, Mr. Bkent Turan has made a mockery of his street mouth. In other words, the president's speech was described as the street mouth.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0240par0568	We're talking about Mr. Tanju, Mr. President. Style, that was the attitude.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0237par0569	No, he said it for our president.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0240par0570	But if he insists, let's make a promise.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0237par0571	About the group talk he gave yesterday. He also linked us to GERP. He said, "Look at the mirror. You can see yourself in relations with the person." It's a taunt, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0240par0572	You have a counselor inside.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0241par0573	Let's not make a new tease. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0242par0577	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in politics, there are similes, metaphors, and there is a saying that there is no mistake in the description. Politics is a bit of tolerance, and it's a necessity for politicians, for all of us to tolerate a bit of criticism. Now, as for the matter of relations with ا, I wish we hadn't come, and we won't be harmed. On the 15th of July, I said something: no one will shed water on your feet about the people who have infiltrated and you have leaked and planted, from the General Staff to the judiciary, from the national education to TELEKOM, who have filmed all of our films, listening to their voices. Let's make a deal here. As for the political foot, I said a hundred times, Mr. President-General has said something to the terrorist organization, the PKK terrorist organization, the DAEŞ terrorist organization, the Justice and Development Party, the government officials are aiding and abetting, we said, a thousand times. When you say you're a liar, you sue for compensation, and when you say you're a dictator, you file a criminal suit, why don't you sue for it?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0243par0581	We'll open it, we'll open it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0242par0582	Open up.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0243par0583	We're opening.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0242par0584	Mr. President-General said yesterday that if you're looking for political feet, he's sitting in Fivetepe. I mean, it's a criminal case, and it's a matter of compensation. Mr. President, it is up to the EC PARTI President to press charges against Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu. If someone links me to a terrorist organization in person, I'll sue, I'll call for proof, I'll charge him with mufti, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, and so on. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is there an additional deadline for bullying, Mr. President, is there such an app?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0244par0587	That's not how it works.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0245par0588	Come in, Mr. President, please complete your statement.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0242par0589	Now, Mr. Ünal made a diagnosis today regarding our president. We can do it, we're doing politics, we'll be patient. So he criticised our president for having mitomania. Mitomani means to deflect the truth. I said earlier that the president of the EC PARTY was a coprolali patient. I mean, someone who says mean and mean things out of his involuntary mouth. So I said that, and I made a statement this morning, and I said, "O Mahir Ünal, come to any channel you want, and you prove it, and I'll prove it." Oh, and by the way, of course, there's kleptomania, so let's talk about it. Let's go! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0245par0592	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0246par0593	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0245par0594	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0246par0595	Mr. President, the terrorist organization has not grown up during the AK PARTI period, it has been an organization that has infiltrated different organs in all of this country's rulings for 45 years. After this was decrypted, the AK PARTI ruling and Mr. President took major steps in a very clear stance. Where was the CHP? Where was he, we said? Where was the MIT Law? So every time he took a step, when he rebelled, we were alone. We have countless examples of this. Where was he on the trip? When we looked at it, they were nowhere near us where ▪ tried to be part of the government of this country. On the contrary, those who had never known Bank Asia until the 17th December, those who did not know the Zaman newspaper, those who did not know the likes of it, made the "tapes" watch sheets at group meetings after December 17th. For once, it was against political morality or the law or the penal code to keep secret recordings of the crime in the Capitol building, but he spoke, and they acted as speakers here. So I'll say again: we may have had our faults in the matter, but the AK PARTY Group has shown their greatest zeal for the dismissal of ▪, and Recep Erdogan has taken the biggest step. We'd like to have CHP with us. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0247par0600	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0248par0601	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0247par0602	Mr. President, just a second, I'll finish what I said and I'll listen. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0248par0604	Mr. President, if what Bkent Bey said is true, I mean, he didn't put the AK PARTY in the state, but if they did...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0249par0605	No, I've had it for 45 years.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0248par0606	... Why did the President say something like that? Forgive me, forgive me, my people. I mean, there's a crime in the middle that begs forgiveness, and the crime is clear: putting the government in place. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, am I saying, sir, that if we go in here, we can't get out? That's what people will do when the time is right. But on December 17th, a dirty laundry was spilled, and listening could be illegal...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0249par0609	That's right.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0248par0610	... But there's a cash register in the middle, a shoebox. So as our main opposition party, don't we have a duty to answer for the people's money? In addition, Haluk Pekşen made the first complaint concerning the terrorist organization after December 17th and 25th, Haluk Pekşen and his friends. Where were you then? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0250par0612	Well, thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0251par0613	I wish everyone was Mr. Haluk. Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0250par0615	Mr. Turan, okay, there's no more teasing, please.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0251par0616	Well, come on, thank you so it doesn't go on.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0250par0617	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0251par0618	But the CHP MPs are also complaining, Mr. President. The CHP MPs say the CHP is in agreement with the CHP where it came from, that's what I'm trying to say.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit02spe0250par0619	Okay. Members of parliament, I now submit to your votes the motion from Mr. Tanju Özcan and his friends: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0250par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 535. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. There are three motions on the 2nd article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law Bill 535 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Imam Taşçıer Osman Baydemir Behçet Yıldırım Sibel Yiğitalp Ertuğrul Furçı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0252par0016	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0250par0017	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0253par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0250par0019	Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Furcier. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0254par0023	Mr. President, my dear friends, the 2nd article is being arranged for auction sales. In the current situation, sales with auctions could not be dealt with even if VAT was purchased. He's the tax collector, whoever's selling in the living room with the arrangements to solve the situation that's left in this void. The second amendment in Article 2 regulates the possibility of extra and unwarranted tax returns. In all taxes, the law defines the subject of taxes. Tax-free transactions can also collect taxes. These errors are present, so they can't be returned at present. The article makes it possible to return it if the VAT has been collected and paid to the state in a way that has no place in the law. Actually, it's not very common for you to collect your life. The question arises here whether the regulation had anything to do with the regulation of Law 7020 in January 2017. In January 2017, municipalities were excluded from VAT if they sold their land to third parties. After that, the winners didn't even pay in VAT, but just before the law went into effect, in December 2016, they collected VAT from municipalities, even though the law had passed through them. Is the arrangement going to cover this section? Is that the real purpose of the arrangement? That needs to be known. The province is subject to private administrations, municipalities and villages and the institutions that they form, universities, associations and foundations, all kinds of occupational institutions or institutions established or operated by or operated by them, and the trade, testing, agricultural and professional surrenders and services of companies or other institutions that are owned, or otherwise owned, are subject to VAT. The third amendment in Article 2 is to establish the VAT accountability on behalf of economic enterprises due to these transactions. Public services are treated as commercial transactions and arranged accordingly. In essence, public services should not form the matrix of any tax. There is no logical, technical, theoretical connection to public service with taxes, and it is not right to be considered a tax source. In addition, economic enterprise opens the way for privatisation. Let's face it, there's a public institution, and it's doing its jobs by the hands of an economic business, so it's a ridiculous situation like taxing the institutions that are subject to the added value tax, so it's subject to tax. Here, the public benefit of the public service, as the concepts of public service have been damaged, opens the way for public services to be put in a direction that is subject to direct privatisation. In the fourth arrangement, the VAT accountability of group companies is held as a single liability. And that still doesn't eliminate the situation that created the corporate tax evasion. These are the provisions for the 2nd article. Now, when we look at these regulations in total, there is a consequence of the fact that the fundamental problem that we have envisioned here in Article 1 is that taxing the Council of Ministers, tax removal, taxing public services in the end, and the creation of a tax matrix of jobs and transactions born here. This results in a ridiculous situation, as well as public tax. The need for this provision to be removed from the law is self-evident. In this regard, we are fundamentally opposed to this legislation. Public services cannot be privatized. The public cannot be sentenced to pay taxes because of its transactions. It's private companies that pay taxes. For him, in this law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me put this on the record.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0255par0032	Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0254par0033	So this arrangement, in the end, is taxing the public, giving private companies twice a reward by making private interests groups immune from taxes. It puts a new burden on the backs of the municipalities, other public enterprises. The criticism we've brought from the very beginning is that these regulations are basically being rewarded for making private companies, capitalist classes, corporations, private interests seem to be returning to the economy, so their burden is on the public and citizens. We ask for your support in removing this from the bill. Thank you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0255par0036	Thank you, Mr. Furman. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motion submitted by our İzmir MP, Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcü: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 2 of the Law Act 2 to the amendment of some Laws and Laws under Article 535 in accordance with Article 535. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Utku Çakırözer Sibel Özdemir Ömer Fethi Gürer The following (c) bendi (c) was added to the article (1) of Article 8 of Law 2-3065, the third sentence of the (2) joke was changed as follows, and the same joke added the following jokes to the following sentence. The sales are made at auction sites, and the sales are made by those who make these sales. For such reasons, the tax paid to the Treasury is returned to the taxpayer who performs the transaction according to the procedures and grounds set by the Finance Ministry. As such, it is necessary to correct statements concerning the transaction and to be returned to the buyer by the seller, which has been calculated too much or unwarranted. Three. The value-appropriate tax on the commercial, testing, agricultural and professional delivery and services of those listed under the first clause of Article 1 of this Law (3) is established in the name of economic enterprises due to these transactions. 4. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to establish the value-determination of the firm's tax-designates, business sizes, business volumes, direct or indirect partnership status, and to determine whether or not they are responsible for the implementation of this joke, as well as to establish the value-appropriation of the tax-addicted tax in the entity's presence. 5. The Finance Ministry is authorized to establish and determine the procedures and bases of the implementation of this joke, for economic enterprises with which it has at least 50% of its partners, at the request of the first joke of the 1st Article (3) of the 1st Article of this Law (g). Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0256par0056	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0255par0057	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0257par0058	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0255par0059	This is Mr. Omar Fethi Gürer, our Nüğde MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Your signature's on the motion, and even if it's not read, I looked at it, followed it. Here you go, Mr. Gürer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0258par0064	Mr. President, the bill for the VAT arrangement, whose number is 535, is not a complete regulation. The law has been changed by more than one arrangement regarding the VAT. This bill also prevents reductions in taxes on income, which are required to organise documents at every stage of VAT transactions. However, the gross taxation brought into the system by the bill eliminates the benefits of taxing in terms of taxes. This makes the tax obligation heavy for the small taxpayers, and opens the way for non-registership, for those who need to give documents. The bill does not include regulations for the restoration of the system, which has been rendered ineffective due to exceptions and exemptions. Dear lawmakers, tradesmen deal with unfair competition as well as victimhood with the unregistered. I'd like to draw your attention to what's going on with the food. With Law 5996, imitations, guns, and corrupt products have been announced since 2011, but these statements have been halted since 2016. In addition to our written question motion to the ministry, the ministry has released data on the audits on this issue, following statements to the public on this issue. 282 parties, including meat and meat products, dairy products, herbal oil, honey, supplementary foods, chocolate, energy drinks, have been announced to the public by 173 companies. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what's being announced is only a fraction of what's being seen. They fed horses, donkeys and pork to our people. As you know, the slaughtering of pork was organised by the Justice and Development Party governments in 2006. Besides, there are three pig farms in our country. The pig is now identified as a butchery animal and can be sold in large markets. Pepperoni, meatballs, kebabs, turnovers, juicy meatballs, even carats and meat pies, they're all mixed up in food like lamacuns. This number -- as I just pointed out -- is essentially low. The inspections need to be increased. The Department of Agriculture doesn't have enough people on the subject, and they're being processed by reporting practices. However, what needs to be done is to build labs in all municipalities, anywhere over 100,000 people, and to go and make sure that what a citizen eats, drinks, is done there free of charge. I've also offered you a law on this. In addition to sub-strength production in our country, companies selling imitation and non-sanitary products have unfortunately increased. In order to increase inspections, authorities from municipalities outside the Ministry of Agriculture must also be reinstated. Guys, the cheese you're eating, it's not milk, it's honey, it's sugar.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0259par0068	There's nbs, not beets.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0258par0069	Like this, you don't have to feed our people products you don't know what's in them, you make arrangements about it as a government, you increase the controls. I believe these numbers are going to go way up at the end of the inspections. If a man is producing immorally, he should not be protected, exposed, disclosed. In fact, I think that in food, terror is equal to murder. In that sense, he needs to be banned from doing criminal work and not doing business. (HPP) It is imperative that businesses that make our human eat pork, eat horse, and eat donkey meat must be shut down; such regulations are needed. I've been calling the government on this for a while. Let the Food Ministry leave, bring in new food arrangements, make our future dark. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0260par0074	Thank you, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0261par0075	Mr. Secretary will answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0260par0076	I'll process the motion, then. Mr. Omar Fethi Gürer and his friends have submitted the motion to your votes: those who have agreed... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0262par0081	Mr. President, dear congressman friends, we've just heard from the clerk. When I heard it, it was as if we were not speaking in Turkey, as if we were speaking in a country that considered pork to be lawful in Europe. There's no such thing. In Turkey, food is controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture; you can't mix pork with red meat, even white meat.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0263par0082	He's eating horse meat, people, Mr. Secretary! For God's sake!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0262par0083	Horse meat...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0264par0084	If there's a necessity, Mr. Secretary, he can.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0265par0085	Mr. Akar, Mr. Bachelor, please... Mr. Secretary will tell you what's wrong. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0266par0088	If anyone commits a crime, of course, when they're caught, they'll be sentenced to trial, and they'll take the necessary precautions. Otherwise, when someone commits a crime, it's not acceptable to generalize it and present it as if there were such a decision.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0267par0089	Don't let the mayors of Istanbul hear!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0265par0090	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0268par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0265par0092	Mr. Gürer, please report your request first.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0268par0093	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary twisted what I said.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0265par0094	I'll take your request. You're in the system, Mr. Gürer. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0268par0096	Mr. Secretary twisted what I said, so I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0269par0097	There is no such thing. He said, Mr. President. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0265par0098	What was the nature of the twist?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0268par0099	In 2006, the Justice and Development Party government ruled out pork as a butchery animal in this country. Besides, everything I've been talking about here has been explained by the Department of Agriculture on its relevant website.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0270par0101	He answered, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0268par0102	That's not my explanation; they ask the Minister of Agriculture, it's on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, where the pork is mixed up.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0271par0103	Thank you, Mr. Gürer, it's on the record. I'm having the third motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 2 of the draft law be removed from the text of articles (3), (4) and (5), which are included in the first joke of the law bill, and shall be added to Article 3065 in Article 8 of the same article. Mustafa Elitaş Vedat Demiröz Mehmet Mush Mehmet Doğan Kubat Murat Alparslan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0272par0115	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0271par0116	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0273par0117	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0274par0118	Motive...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0271par0119	I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to remove from the bill the first joke of Level Value Tax Law No. 3065, which stipulates that the charge of adding value tax to the group can be established in the name of more than one taxpayer, with the regulation of the subdivision (3) of the 1st article of the First Amendment of Level Tax Act 3065. Members of parliament, I submit to your votes the motion that the Commission has passed, which has been passed by the government: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are two motions on the third article. I'm having the motions read according to the order of arrival: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 3 of Article 3 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Utku Çakırözer Sibel Özdemir Ömer Fethi Gürer ADADDE Article 3-3065 (a) to come "to the buyer in the free zone (a) after the declaration of Article (1) of the 12th Amendment (a) "or "to be sold to these stores or to the stores or to the stores of these stores or to the stores of the 95th article of Customs Law, dated 27/10/1999 and to be sold in accordance with Article 4458 (1), which operates at duty-free sales stores, or (b) to be sold to their stores or to their stores or (b) to their stores to be sold to their stores or to (e.g.g.g. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0275par0134	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0271par0135	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0276par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0271par0137	This is our Istanbul MP, Mr. Cyber Özdemir, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0277par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Law on Valued Tax and the motion on Article 3 of the Law on the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers, through the bill, we see tax exceptions in areas such as tax incentives for small business and free professions, gross taxation, RD, innovation and design, technocity, group delivery, method of transport, health sector, health care services, and in many different areas technical arrangements are being made. When we look at it, we see that the bill is not really an inclusive arrangement for the restoration of the system, which has been rendered ineffective due to exceptions and exemptions. In fact, we see that we have returned to some of the legal arrangements that we have made. On the other hand, the incentive for the transition to the registered economy, one of the aims of the bill, is expressed, but it is unclear which arrangement is intended for that exact purpose. The third article, which I am promised on, shall be the following: Article 4458 is intended to eliminate the inequality of competition against our local businesses in terms of the VAT extradition, provided the delivery of non- customs stores or warehouses which are operating according to Article 95 of Customs Law (1). In this sense, we support this arrangement that will satisfy the inequality of competition for our local firms. However, lawmakers have said that when we look at the basis of the bill again -- as a continuation of the arrangement in the bill for investment, production and exports that we have discussed in the General Assembly in the past weeks -- the aim is to contribute to our country's economic development. Economic development is, of course, our common goal. But as we looked at it, Mr. Secretary, we couldn't get out of a cycle of poverty and unemployment, just as our fundamental structural problems for the development of our country during your time in power couldn't be resolved. I mentioned it when I made a promise on the last bag of legislation, and I'd like to bring it up again. In the study of Daron Acemoglu, a very valuable economist, he pointed out the reasons for our country's transition to a collapse between developing countries. The study is linked to weak institutional structures that failed, unable to solve the poverty problem, failed to establish democratic functioning institutions, which are the common characteristics of the countries. Again, in the study, where the government is in the hands of one person or group, the economic system is based on enriching this group and exploiting other members of society, the only thing that's essential in these systems is to increase the wealth of the ruling group and maintain power -- again, in these systems, temporary growths, economic improvements can be seen, but cannot be sustained, and they are doomed to collapse over time. So, according to this theory, it turns out that our country tends to fail rapidly in the process of development. Why? Here you are, no matter how long you're trying to make temporary technical arrangements, the economy in our country is in the monopoly of a particular group, not of the entire society, and it's designed to enrich a group; free press is controlled, even monopolized; there's a oppressive single-man administration that limits freedom of thought and expression; its power is at the highest and most successful. Dear lawmakers, with these basic structural problems, your government's short-term solutions and regulations are not sustainable according to this theory, and unfortunately, they are doomed to fail. For a solution, there is a need for integrated policies covering all parts of society; there is a need for integrated and qualified employment policies, qualified, contemporary, scientific education policies, and most importantly, free universities producing information. These problems will grow exponentially, even if you make as many temporary, short-term technical arrangements as you want, as long as we do not permanently solve basic structural problems here. Yes, the amendments to this bill involving added value tax, tax exceptions and tax reductions in many areas... Mr. Secretary, as the economy -- so-called 11 per cent -- will the economy be able to create work for 18.5 million unemployed people, will it be able to provide solutions to youth unemployment based on 25 per cent, will it be able to increase our national income in the middle-income trap, and most importantly, to reduce income injustice?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0278par0152	Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0277par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, dear lawmakers, most importantly, will we be able to reduce revenue injustice, reduce inflation based on 11 per cent and continue to increase, and produce high-profit products? So, dear MPs, I say that our whole issue and the primary duty of this Parliament should be to solve our fundamental, structural problems permanently, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0278par0155	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. I submit to you the motion from our Istanbul MP, Mr. Siegel Özdemir and his friends: those who agree... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the declaration of the Law shall be changed in the form of the following form, after which it shall come in Article 3 of the Law Bill 535. Merkel Danış Beştaş Imam Taşçıer Osman Baydemir Behcet Yıldırım Sibel Yiğitalp Dilek Ocalan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0279par0167	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0278par0168	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0280par0169	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0278par0170	Now, on the motion, our Istanbul MP Mr. Hüda Kaya will speak. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0281par0174	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Although I have made a commitment to the VAT arrangement on the agenda, of course, we won't be able to get through until we've touched on different issues. The VAT arrangement, in Turkey, from the bread of 81 million, to the water of tea, is a matter that concerns our people in every corner of its life, but when we look at the arrangement, we see that there is no more arrangement in Turkey than to pursue a portion of the VAT, which 81 million people pay for. I'd like to address the agenda, the media, some of our community, the state of our country, and the circumstances. Dear friends, Turkey is now a country where the most journalists in the world are imprisoned, and we say it many times...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0282par0178	On what charge?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0281par0179	...but you insist that in Turkey, the press, the media, the thought, the word, the freedom of expression, is highly advanced, almost out of date.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0283par0180	The one who supports terrorism will be punished, Ms. Hüda. Don't do anything. If he supports terrorism, he does.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0284par0181	Is that what you're sitting there for?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0283par0182	If he supports terrorism, I say he does. What am I saying? I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0285par0183	Dear friends, freedom of the press is limited only to freedom to praise the government in Turkey. 24/7, dozens of newspapers, television, radio and news sites continue to speak freely and be the mouthpiece of power. We're down eight more steps in the World Law Index in 2016, and we're in the 99th place, my friends. When we say 99, we're already in the 99th row of 113 countries. So the most natural rights to be human is to fight for it to happen, to fight for it to happen, to serve it together, to serve it in beauty, freedoms, but our country is at the end of the list, but no matter how badly it will be remembered, if there are issues to be shamed for our country, friends, at the top of the list. We must recognize this truth, dear friends. And you all know about today's operation to the Liberal Democracy newspaper. All I'm saying is that the only way to suppress money and buy it is to break the door down in the middle of the night with security forces like this, people.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0286par0185	Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0285par0186	Dear friends, look what I'll show you about the people of our country. Look, look at the tragic state of our country. I told you yesterday that Dr. Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu's severance was confiscated, he was suspended from his post with the KHK, he was sentenced to prison for calling for peace, and look at this cartoon -- on behalf of our society, or rather, in the name of this government -- what does it say here that's embarrassing? In a sense, they said, "Should we also seize your pension? "
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0286par0187	It's not funny! It's not funny!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0285par0188	Dear friends, look -- in social media -- I mentioned a suicide yesterday, and every day these suicides are added to them. The pain is growing, my friends, a deep drama, a deep scream in our country. I'd like to read to you, dear friends, a comment shared on the social media of suicide news: I think of suicide every day. I'm standing up for my two kids. I'm sure hundreds of thousands of people feel the same way about me. The biggest problem with this power is that it's paranoia, friends, to see its people as potential danger or even an enemy. Only the closed website is over 100,000, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0287par0192	On what grounds?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0285par0193	Can I have a minute, please?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0288par0194	Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0285par0195	Thank you, thank you, Mayor. Turkey is still the first in the world ranking with journalists who have been detained or arrested. Dear friends, I'd like to point out that there are a few, very quickly... no pictures. Look, about the media, about the media, especially the pro-government media, who thinks, talks and criticizes... what if we're the opposition? Criticizing, criticizing the politics of power can't be treason, can't be terrorism. This is the most natural right to be human, the most natural way to oppose. Look, we've been exposed to numerous lynchings, threats and slanders through the media. That's why many of our friends are still in prison, and so are our friends who are out there. There's so much news here that in my case, women in Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If I could just say the last thing...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0289par0200	For the record. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0285par0202	...as an example of their hatred and rape, dear friends, especially when I was imitating growing child abuses and rapes, made a speech on television in the pro-government media, even in television programs, where I was speaking, being terrorized, being targeted, using slanders, making headlines called the Turkish Hate of Hüda Kaya, arguing in the programmes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0290par0203	Terrorists hand out guns to kids, they're the real abusers!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0285par0204	Dear friends, we love our country more than you can imagine.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0290par0205	You're talking nonsense, it's empty.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0291par0206	The joke of the day!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0292par0207	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you please...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0290par0208	He's talking nonsense, Mr. President. We are the people of this country, this land... Get out of here! You're defending terrorists here!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0293par0211	And we want peace, trust in our country, that people don't hate each other, that people don't get hurt, that people don't get killed, that people don't get killed, that people look at tomorrows with confidence, that they don't have to worry about bread, that they don't kill themselves. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0290par0214	Go tell the terrorists, tell your friends.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0294par0215	Thank you, Mr. Rock. I submit to you the motion that Mr. Hüda Kaya and his friends have submitted: those who have refused... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There are two motions on the fourth article, which I read according to the order of arrival: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Law Bill 535 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Imam Taşçıer Osman Baydemir Sibel Yiğitalp Dilek Öcalan Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0295par0226	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0294par0227	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0296par0228	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0294par0229	It's Mr. Garo Paylan who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Paylan. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0297par0232	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, this is the only item in the bag that concerns our Minister of Health, and it's a large substance. What does it say, item 4 of the bag? If foreign nationals receive services in health care, I will not receive VAT, he says. Dear friends, we, the HDP, ask that health care be granted to all citizens of the Republic of Turkey free of charge, but do you know what this bag says now, while citizens of the Republic of Turkey are always paying for their contributions in health care or forced to private hospitals while they pay for it now and pay for it while they pay for it in VAT? A government claiming to be domestic and national will pay 8 per cent of VAT, Mehmet, Agop, Ayşe, Fatma, but if George comes, Hans says VAT is zero. Dear friends, is this the local and national government? You're gonna make me pay for the VAT when I'm in debt, when I'm in debt, when I'm in debt, when I'm in debt, when I'm in medical care, you're not gonna make George pay Hans, or Hans. This is unacceptable. And one more thing, folks, today is $4 -- you know this sign -- euro 5 lira. Anyway, when the stranger comes, our country is cheap, and they get these services seriously cheap. In the past, he used to pay a thousand euros and now he's getting the same service for 500 euros, and we also say: "You won't pay a VAT for 40 euros." If that's right, say yes. If that's not right, support our motion, friends. And this substance can also be abused. Imagine if someone came to a clinic, a citizen of ours, Ahmet; friend, if you took this service, it would be $1.080, but if your name was George, it would be a thousand lira clinic. And Ahmet says, "Friend, write my name George, and I'll pay a thousand liras. When George is George, a thousand liras is $1.080. Imagine how this substance could be abused. I don't think you're gonna support this stuff. Look, there's a large substance, and there's another sentence, and it says that if someone donates a student home, a nursery, a mosque, they have a VAT exemption. Yes, it can be considered a positive substance, but we are principled against exemptions from VAT, my friends. Even when one person is doing charity, the VAT must pay, but otherwise it may be encouraged and may also be misused, my friends. Look, think about it, when the big contractors are buying construction in one area, let's say a thousand apartments, the municipality has conditioned it, it says: you're going to build a mosque, you're going to build a nursery in this area, you're going to build a school. And when this immunity comes, let's say that a contractor buys a thousand cubic metres of concrete into the school, a contractor who buys this building on this condition, says, "A friend, you're going to build a children's home, you're going to build a school in this area." What are you gonna do? Instead of a thousand tons of iron, I used 2,000 tons, my friend. It's a substance that's at risk for abuse, my friends. In that sense, let's not cause such exemptions, it could lead to a lot of corruption. There's another foot in the matter, fellas. The machine for RD is called an exception to equipment, so there is no VAT. Guys, I'm going to encourage my production. You say, "Well, unfortunately, the car is heading for the wall." Look, when it's based on $52 billion, the current amount of stuff that fuels the current deficit can cause serious problems. We're warning you, you're trying to speed up this car, you're trying to step on the gas, but that's where the car started to spill. This is where the car falls, be careful. We say, you step on more gas; you increase the current deficit. But if you get this far, this car's gonna hit the wall, guys. And this is a substance that fuels the current deficit, and I'm warning you about these three things, and I'm looking for support in our motion. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0298par0243	Thank you, Mr. Paylan. I submit to you the motion Mr. Paylan and his friends have made: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0299par0245	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0298par0246	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0299par0249	Mr. President, Mr. Paylan has given us an image or expression of the issue mentioned in this (k) memorandum, in favor of our citizens and foreigners in Turkey, as if there is a case against citizens living in Turkey. Friends, if a foreigner buys a product from our country, we return his VAT when he leaves the airport, or when we leave the country when we buy a product, the VAT is returned to us. For one thing, that's the way to look at it. The second is that today, the number of people who benefit from health tourism worldwide is 30 million, the amount given by the World Health Organization, and the amount spent in this area is $500 billion. So the money spent on health tourism per person is $17,000 average. Turkey today has made serious investments in health infrastructure and renewed health infrastructure, and Turkey also has a well-grown and high-standard health staff. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll give me an extension, I'll finish it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0300par0254	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0299par0255	Turkey has a serious, well-grown medical staff. Turkey, of course, edited and built these services to give to its own people, offered this opportunity to Turkey, to our people. But this opportunity can also bring serious foreign currency to our country by offering offerings to other countries. There's money coming from the healthcare area, which is estimated to be around $5 billion today, from abroad, and it's possible to move it to $10 billion and more, and Turkey will get its share from here. Of course, that's the way to approach the issue, or we're already giving our people free health care. If everyone in Turkey is not covered by general health insurance, the VAT has no direct impact on our citizen's payments. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0300par0257	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0301par0258	Mr. President, the Minister said that my statements would be misunderstood, that it would be perceived as a discrimination against strangers.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0300par0259	Make a brief statement from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0301par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, if we have a claim like that, if we're returning VATs to strangers on their way out, then all the expenses they make are exempt from VAT in the country. Let's make an arrangement called VAT. Why didn't we make this arrangement then, just bring it to health and make a clear distinction between citizens of the Republic of Turkey and foreigners in health? Let the stranger take his document, and if he needs to be returned, he should be returned to customs. It's a substance that can be abused in any way, Mr. Secretary. As I said, there may be clinics that can call the bill "George" as Hans, so let's protect the VAT. If you're going to return it, you can return it to the foreigners at customs. It's important that a government with such discrimination is a national and domestic claim, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0302par0264	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0303par0265	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0302par0266	It's not discrimination, as our congressman put it. This is a way for the country to take the lead in a field. Many countries do it in many areas.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0304par0267	Then I say no VAT, Mr. Secretary, let's say no VAT for strangers.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0302par0268	Let's not look at it through a VAT, it's not discrimination, it's Turkey's interests, Turkey's future, a step towards increasing Turkey's resources. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0305par0270	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Botan, you're in the system. I'll take your request.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0306par0272	Mr. President, while Mr. Secretary has been promised, I'd like to ask you a few questions about science -- matter according to 60.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0305par0273	Mr. Kara's in the system. Mr. Kara, I'll take your request.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0307par0275	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, we're giving money-free health care to everyone. I wonder, what hospital is it in?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0305par0276	Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0308par0278	Mr. President, I've asked Mr. Secretary before, since 2010, the hospital in Ercish district of Van Province has not been finished, there is still no hospital opening at mass openings, there is only a skeleton. When will it be over? Again, there are no public hospitals in the Saray and Gürpınar districts of Van. I'll see if there's any progress on that -- we've had our word on that before. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0309par0281	Thank you, Mr. Botan. Mr. Kara, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0310par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, if I'm not mistaken, we're giving health care to everyone in Turkey without money. I wonder what hospital it's in. Because clinics are paid for, medicines are paid for, even public appointments are paid for, even in family medicine. Do we live in another country, or is he talking about somewhere else? I don't count private hospitals, I don't count 200 percent contributors.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0309par0286	Thank you, Mr. Kara. Mr. Secretary, will you answer in writing or verbally?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0311par0288	I'll give it to you verbally.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0309par0289	Well, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0311par0291	I'd like to answer the question asked by our congressman regarding hospitals in Ercish district of Van. Friends, sometimes, unfortunately, for reasons stemming from the Contraction Act, it's a pain in the ass to complete the construction. It's bankrupt, it's a matter of judgment, you can't re-integrate without being purged. Like this one, our hospital in Pain was finished in its tenth year, only this year. We have hospitals like this. In my own knowledge, our Vezirköru Hospital is in its 7th year; this is how it enters. It's the law, and it's the system, or we have 880 hospitals in Turkey. Again, I'll answer the question of our other deputy friend...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0312par0294	He's changed his bid over and over again.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0311par0295	And those other counties... For the hospital in Ercish district, Mr. Secretary before you has already been told that we will finish many times in a month.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0313par0297	Mr. Botan, let the Minister tell you a thing, take your time. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0311par0299	So it's a problem from the system, or we're going to open over 40 hospitals in Turkey even this year. The hospital we've finished is over 880. It's just a contribution to all of these hospitals, all of these public hospitals... these are small shares that can help us get used to the right health care system. Otherwise, health care is free of charge in public hospitals, public hospitals.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0313par0300	Well, thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm reading the second motion on Article 4: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 4 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Musa Pine Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Haluk Pekşen Ömer Fethi Gürer Sibel Özdemir MADDE 4. - The first joke of Article 13 of Law 3065 has been added to the following dams. اj) Children's home, children's home, nursing home, nursing home, care and rehabilitation centre, religious facilities under the permission and supervision of property managers, religious facilities under the control of the State's private administrations, municipalities and villages, the public health facility, the library and the hundred beds (previously 50 beds in the area) and services for the construction of youth and boyhood camps, and services for the construction of youth and boyhood camps of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, The services provided by real or legal persons allowed by the Ministry of Health include no exceptions to foreign nationals who are not settled in Turkey, the services provided within the entity's individual health institutions, protective medicine, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation services (other surrenders and services provided along with the services provided by foreign nationals who are not settled in Turkey.), Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0314par0317	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0313par0318	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0315par0319	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0313par0320	It's Mr. Haluk Pekşen who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0316par0324	Mr. President, what's wrong with not taking the VAT? It is not enough that the VAT is not taken; there are many things that should not be taken. For example, the amount of electricity stolen in 2017 was as much as the electricity produced by six Ataturk Dams. Currently, 28 per cent of Turkey's total consumption of electricity is being stolen and consumed. Now, look at what you've done with the country. You've made him needy to steal his electricity, citizen, stealing electricity. Do you see what you've done to the people of Asia Minor, the people of this land? What could be heavier than this? You're cutting the power to the villages. Why? You're saying the neighbors stole the electricity. Since we can't afford electricity from them, we're cutting electricity from the entire village. For God's sake, do you have any moral responsibility in this? Is the government not responsible for this at all? What kind of government is there in a country that makes a citizen needy to steal electricity? That's what I'm asking, to be honest, I'm curious. Six Ataturk Dams; 28 per cent of total consumption of electricity is being stolen. So, what's going on? People who live in other parts of the country have to pay for other people's electricity, as well as theirs, because of the missing fugitive price. I mean, part of the country says that the government made me so damn if I even stole the electricity. The other one says, "Can there be such a pattern?" Now, you're making arrangements for the added value tax, and what are you organizing? Who will you collect the unprovoked tax from? What added value tax? What tax do you collect? Does a citizen have to pay taxes? What tax do you collect? Are you able to collect income tax, institution tax, add value tax, or WITS? You don't produce any of it because you don't have a system that's built on producing taxes. You've set up an electrical money, water money, gas money, and an advocacy chain on indirect taxes. All the money this country has invested on 78 sides is forbidden! We'll catch up with them, not just with Haram! What's the number of these 78 followers, I want to know, what's the amount of money they're going to get? Let this 80 million give you this money, let their eyes be satisfied, let their lands be satisfied, and let this land be saved! Yeah, well, let's find out how much they want to steal. How much are they going to steal? Really, this country is raising this much tax from life, from tooth, from nail to nail. He plays on the bridge, plays in the tunnel, plays in electricity, plays in tenders, plays in corruption. For God's sake, tell me a place that's not stolen, so when you pay taxes there, let's say: a place that isn't stolen, an investment, a tax produced here; look, they don't steal from here. Is there not, in the name of Allah, a company who has suckled milk, and then offered it a contract, and then took it in the sweat of its forehead, and did good in this land? Look, you're using electricity, Mr. Secretary, so make a note today, and let it go down in history: our current power is 85,000 megawatts, consumption 40,000 megawatts. He put the U.S. embargo in the iron steel industry, and you kept quiet, and the government kept quiet. Put an embargo against that embargo, I promise you, Mr. Secretary, we'll back you up to the end, we'll back you up. So now, the amount of energy is going to go down a little bit, the consumption of electricity is going to go down a little bit. The investment is now a waste of $78 billion investment. So, let me ask you another question, Mr. Secretary, why did the electricity we produced from natural gas two years ago go up to 37% now? Well, there's the sun, there's the wind, there's the HESEs, there's the coal plants, thank God; well, there's electricity that they produce, so why are we so charged with this gas consumption? What do we have against these Russians, what do we have to do with them, why are we prisoners? I'm curious. These numbers aren't my numbers, they're government figures. I'm asking you to hold your numbers in the mirror, Mr. Secretary, please respond. Why did you remove electricity from 27 to 29% to 37 percent from gas consumption, and why? I'm asking. Why don't coal plants generate electricity, why don't you get power from wind plants, why don't you support solar production enough? We're getting numbers, we're looking at numbers. Now, Mr. President, let me wrap this up, if I may...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0317par0330	Do not justify injustice.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0318par0331	Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0316par0332	Honourable lawmakers, look, I'll give you a number, and the citizens who follow us will please look at these figures. I give you the official numbers of the state: Germany's solar power is our one-third. We're 1,900 and they're 900. Germany currently produces 44,000 megawatts of solar power, our 2,400 megawatts, the amount of energy that we consume in a year is Germany's solar energy. Let's simply say what this means: Now, a country of one third of our power produces as much solar energy as our total consumption, why don't we, why don't we? I'm asking. One person out, one answer to that. Does the government have any answers to that, for God's sake? After that, we don't get VAT from strangers. What if you don't buy anything from strangers? You don't invest, you don't do anything that a national power should do. What should I call your nationals, and what should I call yours for the good of this country? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0319par0335	The public sees everything, Mr. Pekşen.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0320par0336	Thank you, Mr. Pekshen. Members of parliament, I submit to your votes the motion that Mr. Haluk Pekşen and his friends have submitted: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0321par0338	Mr. President, we have a request for a rewrite.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0320par0339	The Commission has requested a reduction on Article 4. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0321par0341	The 4th article we are discussing includes the 13th Article of Law 3065 (j), (k) and (l) dams. Law 7103, published yesterday in the Official Gazette, has been added to this article (j). Therefore, we have a demand to be subjected to editing in the 4th article (k), (l) and (m) predicted to be added with the 4th article. We'll present it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0320par0343	Thank you. Your request is on record, the process of redacting will be carried out by our president during the writing of the law. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 4 is accepted. There are two motions on the 5th article, which I have read according to the order of the proposals: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Section 535 of the Law Bill, which is currently in session, be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Imam Taşçıer Osman Baydemir Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Sibel Yiğitalp Dilek Ocalan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0322par0354	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0320par0355	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0323par0356	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0320par0357	This is Mr. Flitz Kerestecioğlu, our Istanbul MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0324par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't want to talk again in the period of the bag law, but this time I want to continue with the media, now that the media doesn't see women. In particular during the State of Emergency and AKP administration, the closure of women media institutions, women news programmes; the arrest of women journalists; the obstruction of women's words on screens, newspapers; the lack of women's words; in short, the media's sexist, separatist, and otherist language has become increasingly reckless. Reports of crimes against women and children often set the stage for the reconstruction of violence, abuse and gender roles. Citing violence in the news, the use of photographs, women's clothing, lives, or rhetoric as targets, reveals the fact that media legitimises this violence and is actually a part of it. The language used in the news, while consolidating sexism, violence, and hatred, while not being exposed to the violence and violence that women are exposed to, we see the fact that the attacker is actually acting as if by some other perception. Because they say, for example, it's given by a violent or violent, domestic or violent person. You must have come across a lot of that saying... the husband who brought the madness. The man who suspected that his wife was cheating on him..... when he saw his lover with someone else....... because he went out on the street without permission.......... the numerous excuses are made to appear as an important element of the news, but as the women who are on the news do not have the right to defend themselves in the face of these reasons, the incident remains the cause of the man who inflicts violence on the reader's memory. For example, for example, a young woman murdered by a man, Helin Palandöken. For him, the mainstream media media did not say "female murder" and put it in the headlines: The evening newspaper had killed Helin (hein) after the school's falling out of the school. In short, it's a sign of the corrupt media's lack of ethics, the lack of women's media, and the victimization of women by the media's hands again. The Mesopotamian Women's Journalists' platform says in its report of right violations by women journalists in 2017: "Presponsive policies covering all areas of life have caused a total of 52 women to be taken into custody during news surveillance or a raid on their homes. Women working in media organizations who turned their back on social reality in Turkey, where freedom of press and expression have been put underfoot, were forced to resign due to interference in media broadcasts in Turkey. Yes, with the State of Emergency, the government is also trying to silence the voice of women who can produce a voice against increasing sexist policies. There's something else that we've seen with the State of Emergency, as well as the media that's called the pool media, and in the mainstream media, there's a tradition of TV channels, and there's man-to-man conversations, and there's really a man-to-man evaluation of the agenda in those programs. In these programs, which run in a kind of coffeehouse atmosphere, men's groups -- in a nail -- are being analyzed, while women are being prevented from expressing their comments, their views on politics, their rights. Most of the time, I'm talking to a guy who's four, six, maybe even eight, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm talking to him, and I'm saying, [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0325par0369	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0324par0370	There's not a single woman in most of these shows with male commentators, but let's face it, the servers are all women on these programs. The men are gathered, they're doing very serious, high-politics and analysis, but the servers are women. Of course, being a woman doesn't mean being on the side of women, so where is life TV today, where is Sevda Karaca, where is the bread and rose? We're looking for Banu Güven, where is Nevsin Mengü, but a story I just saw was this: "Pianist Nazli was sentenced to 25 days in prison for a month. Why? Nagehan asked him, "Is your conscience at ease with the loan you received from Asia?" These are the women journalists of your time. Unfortunately, the woman's voice is as united as the media and the HDP as the media. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0326par0374	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. I submit to you the motion given by our Istanbul MP Mr. Flitz Kerestecioğlu and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the other motion on Article 5: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment to the 535th Amendment to the Laws and Laws under the Act of Value Tax Number 535, which is currently in session, as follows. Musa Pine Ancient Durmaz Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Omar Fethi Gürer Sibel Özdemir The payment to Article 5-3065 of Article 17 (2) (d) of Article 17 (d) to copy and publish book magazine publications and to provide access to the access was added as copyright by publishers (c) and added to the document (e.g. 4) of the document (c) provided by Article 81 of the Law on Development Tax (i.e., Article 81) to "the first article of the common item" (d) and the transactions of the common partnerships (e.g., i.g., i.g. i. e. the transactions, the transactions, and the transactions of the transactions of the following the statement of Article 81 (e.g.g. Customs warehouses and temporary storage spaces and customs services, for import and export transactions, and for goods that are processed under the transit regime, and for storage and terminal services. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0327par0386	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0326par0387	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0328par0388	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0326par0389	This is Mr. Mehmet Bekkinoğlu, our Istanbul MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0329par0393	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. With this motion, we ask that the tax burden on art be lifted. My dear friends, before the bill, which now changes some of the provisions of Level Value Tax Law 535, has been granted exemptions in the value-appropriation tax, over and over again with the amendments. In almost every area, there have been various kinds of exemptions in every area you can think of. So the service purchase, sales, FATHIH Project, free zones; gold, silver, platinum search, selling; whatever you can think of, tax exemption has been granted. The bill that we're currently discussing is again granted a tax exemption to add value to certain issues. One of them will not be taxed on adding health care to foreigners. It's in the papers, the media says that there's a lot of Arab hair extensions in Turkey, so there's a lot of people from Arab countries who come to Turkey to plant hair. My dear friends, look, one of Turkey's most fundamental problems is open. There's a huge difference between what Turkey is selling out and what they're buying out, and almost 70 percent of the exports we're doing are from outside, so I'm talking about the manufacturing industry. The basic problem is Turkey doesn't produce added value. The basis for not producing added value is not reading. [[Reading verse 1 of the Alak surah by the preacher]] Mr. Minister, there's no reading, there's no reading, there's no Turkey. We've brought a change to encourage reading. ▪ Remove VAT rates from the royalties paid by the publishers, and bring an exemption here. We have made a motion that my dear friends and I expect your support. By God, they've forgotten this, ministers, your Prime Minister, your President, or they won't do anything to support it, so really, honestly support it. Look, my dear friends, let me give you an example. How many books does a writer in Turkey do? It's not a profession called writing, it's a side job. They have a profession, but they also write books. Let's say he wrote a book, and there's a copyright income worth $3,000. That's 17 percent income tax, followed by 18 percent VAT, my dear friends. So 35 percent of it pays $1.050 for a total of 3,000 liras. Let's say something else, let's say an interpreter, that this translator makes $15,000 a year. 17 percent of the income tax is reduced to $9.750 when you apply 18 percent VAT, my dear friends. Turkey doesn't read. Why doesn't he read? Because we don't value reading, we don't value publishing. It's all come to mind, my dear friends, we've given you a VAT discount on everything, but we can't think of reading because we're a society that doesn't read. Since we haven't read it, we're back to our dear friends. Because we're talking about economics, we can't do good because we don't read, we can't add to what we produce because we don't read. We're editing the car. What do we sell most out there? We're selling refrigerators. What are we selling? We're selling cars. E, the country that sells the most cars, we're going to build a local car. Look at this contradiction, guys. I mean, seriously, look at this. What do we sell most out there? We're selling cars because it's not our car because we can't make cars because we can't discover them, because we don't read them, dear friends. 'Cause we get taxes from books, guys. We've got immunity for everything, taxes from the book. Don't let them read... What did an AKP teacher say? If they don't read it, if they read it, they won't vote for us.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0330par0404	Don't do this. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0329par0405	That's what he said, bro. I didn't invent it. We're not reading.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0331par0406	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0330par0407	Tell me what happened when you read it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0329par0408	Here's the bride, don't be angry, okay, I'm taking these last sentences off the record, so don't get mad, come on...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0331par0409	You're asking for support, and you're asking for...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0330par0410	Does it look good on you? It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0329par0411	But that's the way it is. Look, my friends, go study, study the yes-no, see who voted for you, my dear friends.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0330par0412	That style doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit your age, it doesn't suit your education.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0329par0413	You don't want people to read it. If you wanted to, if you wanted people to read it, you would support this motion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, my dear friends, I bid you good evening. Good luck with that. Don't be angry, there's no need to be angry.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0332par0417	Thank you, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0333par0418	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0332par0419	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0333par0420	He picked on us by naming our band, Mr. Speaker. On behalf of the group, our teacher will answer if you let him.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0334par0421	Wait a minute, I don't know what she was picking on.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0333par0422	You wouldn't do that if you read it." he said.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0334par0423	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0335par0424	I didn't say the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0334par0425	The band didn't say that.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0335par0426	A lecturer who supports the AK PARTY." I said.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0336par0427	They also pretended to approve of us as if we were the ones who didn't read it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0337par0428	But he didn't give any explanation for your group or your party, so I listened very carefully to Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0336par0429	Mr. President, just like he said, a man we don't know who he is, if we read the book, we won't vote for the AK PARTY, then we won't read it. He said, "Let's not read it." He called us and accused us. He said it like we were supporting it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0337par0430	Are you sure he gave you the name of the party, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0336par0431	Of course he did. He won't?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0338par0432	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0337par0433	All right, I'll process the motion, then I'll consider it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0339par0434	Ask Taner Star what he said.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0340par0435	Mr. Taner said. He claims he's a speaker. I don't think that's what you said.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0341par0436	You're thinking. Prove it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit03spe0342par0437	Members of parliament, I submit to your votes the motion passed by our Istanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0342par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue with the views of Bill 535. The government is in place. Mr. Turan, I've studied Mr. Bachelor's speech. Do you have an answer for this?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0343par0006	Mr. Mustafa Isen will answer on behalf of our group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0342par0007	Here you go, Mr. Isen.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0344par0011	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are this week's Library Week. I'm witnessing an urban legend, which unfortunately is something we've seen more in intellectual neighborhoods: Turkey does not read books. Dear friends, I'm especially uncomfortable with my website coming from friends we know as book friends. I'll give you some numbers. I've been Undersecretary of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and I've been following the figures from a certain date, following the statistics. The number of books published in Turkey in 2002 is around 9,000. I'm telling you the number of books published in Turkey in 2017 -- it's not an appeal, it's a variety of 64 thousand. This does not include textbooks, and one sixth of which is translation. This is a picture of how much Turkey has jointd to the world. Among the second-largest languages in the world, such as English, French, are the most published books in Turkish -- in a variety of ways, not circulation -- and these books that are printed don't go into space, friends, they're read. If we don't read it, let's not talk about it because you don't read it, because the people of Turkey are reading it and I think they've read enough...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0345par0013	Hodja, give me a circulation.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0344par0014	Sir, this isn't about circulation, it's about numbers.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0346par0015	You address the General Assembly, Mr. Isen.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0344par0016	So, this phrase, I don't read, is expressed today on various occasions because of Library Week, it's not the right approach, let's not blame it on people who read in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0346par0019	Thank you, Mr. Isen. Congressmans, there are two motions on the 6th article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. I'm reading the most inoppressive motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the 6th article of the Law Bill 535 is removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Dilek Öcalan Imam Taşçıer Sibel Yiğitalp Ziya Pir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0347par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0346par0033	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0348par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0346par0035	This is Mr. Ziya Pir, our Diyarbakır MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0349par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the valued MPs, this bill is actually about the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance is a certain Bayburttian, my fellow Silver House resident is sitting here right now, but that can't stop me from telling a joke. You know, there were four bridges on the Chorus River in Bayburt. In those days, Bayburtlı went to Istanbul. As he passes over the Bosporus Bridge, he burns a cigarette, looks at the bridge like this -- in those days, the second bridge is built in Istanbul -- and he says: "O Istanbul, as you grow, you look like Bajburt. Now, dear lawmakers, with this law, what do you want to look like? Talk about what? Three-quarters of tax revenues are obtained from indirect taxes in Turkey. What do you want to look like with this? Or you're always talking about locals and nationals and bringing VAT exemptions to foreigners in health care. What do you want to look like? Or is it possible to produce high quality products in Turkey? No. What do you want to look like? We can sort it out like this and ask you, and I ask you, what are you trying to look like when our 15-year-old foreign trade deficit reached $980 billion -- after zeros were thrown out? Or recently, Mr. Prime Minister says that the release of the dollar helps our exports. There is no such thing, our exports are not increasing, and our imports are not falling. What are you trying to look like with these? Or the need for foreign capital still increases yearly in Turkey. What are you trying to be? We are 85% dependent on the European Union and the United States in foreign trade. What are you guys getting at with all these challenges? Or should we talk about a $51 billion current account deficit here? Or in the last two years, we don't care about Moody, who are they? So let's talk about the cost of the dollar going up to four dollars in the last two years losing 100 percent against the dollar? Or double-digit inflation, double-digit unemployment, real-estate salary, income-distribution issues, which one should we talk about? Of course we can talk a lot, our party can talk, but you shut him up, you don't make him talk. It's not just here. We need to reach public opinion, we need to be able to use the media, but your media, the pool media are busy lynching all the dissidents, our other ideas are never available. Finally, you attempted to lynch young people against the war at Bosporus University. Earlier, what did you accuse opposing trade organisations, media broadcasters, NGOs, important people and individuals and, of course, politicians? Either you said "terrorist" or you said "betrayer." The Turkish Medical Association is a public health issue. You lynch academics who point to civilian deaths because they say, "We will not be a party to the crime." Or Teacher Ayþe. What did Teacher Ayþe say by connecting to a television station? Are you aware of what happened to the eastern part of the country? Alas, let no man die, neither let the children die, nor let the mothers weep. You lynched him for saying so. Or you lynched the human rights activists in the same way, and then you let them go. Or the Republic paper. It's obvious what you've been throwing away about the Republic newspaper. What you're saying is: an operation into the terrorist's castle. ▪ The voice came from Germany, at which time your minister called for a secret meeting in Germany, where you criticised it, and asked for a loan. Guys, don't shut up the press. If you silence the press, the public won't get to the truth. I'm telling you, please don't come between the public and the press, I'm calling it quits. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0350par0046	Thank you, Mr. Pir. Now, I submit to you the motion that Mr. Ziya Pir and his friends have submitted: those who have refused... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I'm reading the other motion on the 6th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 6th Amendment to the Law of the Law and the Amendment to certain Laws under the Act of Value Tax Act 535, in the following way. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Utku Cakirözer Musa Pine Sibel Özdemir Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Burcu Koksal The first verse of Article 23 of Article 6-3065 (e) was added with the bent below to come after the bend of Law 6-3065, and the current (f) bendi (g) was identified. "f) In the delivery of second-hand motorized land transports or portable trades, it is kept by the taxpayers after the purchase of the added value tax, the non-taxes (including the purchases made under the exception of the large ones), the second-hand motor vehicle sold without any substantial changes in its quality, or the matherah in the delivery of non-results, after the purchase price has been reduced. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0351par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0350par0060	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0352par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0350par0062	This is Mr. Burcu Koksal, our Afyonkarahisar MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0353par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are under obligation to pay a value tax on the price of purchase and the price of sales for our citizens who are constantly doing this in the second-hand sales of the materials we're talking about. In that case, our citizens will be able to keep the price of the vehicle low. This kind of trouble could arise. I'll take the value tax. You'll be able to cause a loss of income tax. Here's one thing I'm curious about: why do you covet a citizen's used vehicle when you can collect taxes on Rant's income? You're already trying to get a VAT from a citizen who can barely afford a used car. Although you don't have a problem with solving citizens' problems, thinking about citizens or solving country problems, we know that, but we still believe that you can show at least a little more sensitivity in this clause. Dear MPs, as the Republican People's Party, we try to express that Turkey has five basic problems: education, economy, foreign policy, democracy and Kurdish problems. We're way behind in training. In the study, 80 of every 100 families want their children to study abroad because they do not trust the education system in Turkey, and they feel that education is inadequate. Nice, though the kid, even though he's done teaching, he's finally out of work, and this time he can't get a job. More than a million of our young people are unfortunately unemployed in this country. You shut down the Meat and Fish Foundation, the Food Industry, the SECKA, the tobacco factories, our national and domestic factories, which are of the great value of the republic, one by one, and you condemned thousands of people to unemployment. Those who were able to find a job were only workers, and this time you put a finger in the mouth of these contractors, and I'll give you a staff. You said, "I'll give you a staff." But he lied too. Do you care if some 70,000 subcontractors working at the CSI still haven't received a staff? They were the subcontractors who worked at the OSCE, and the ones who did the real work in the public. For example, 19,700 subcontractors were cut off from the highways, and, unfortunately, only 4,700 subcontractors were recruited. The contractors were recruited. For example, our contractors, such as tea makers or security guards, could receive a staff on the highways, while the workers in road, maintenance, repair work were unfortunately unable to take part. When subcontractors working at the 31st branch of Afyonkarahisar, in my constituency wanted to protest their salary, they were also registered. These people are literally playing with their bread. These workers work tirelessly without overtime, roads, food fees. The principle of equal wages does not apply, but you do not care at all. I'm looking back at the economy. We became the world's fifth in the countries of misery. Look, Bloomberg's got the Les Miserables Index, the Loser's Index. According to this, Venezuela, the world's most miserable country, shares the 5th place in South Africa, Argentina in the 3rd place, Egypt in the 4th place, Greece with Turkey in the 5th place. So, what's the criteria for this Loser Index? Such criteria as rising unemployment, increasing inflation, and high-velocity privatisation. So you've brought Turkey to the fifth place in the world in misery. Here's the bill for your mismanagement. The unfairness of income distribution among the communities is getting deeper and deeper by the day. I'm looking at Turkey now, and we have a young and dynamic population, but after 2023, I'm afraid that the number of pensioners will increase and we won't be able to pay the pensions to these pensioners. We are now importing everything from lentils to lentils to hay, to livestock, but still the minister says: "We are among the number-one countries in the world in agriculture and livestock. If it were us, we would be among the countries in imports; I say this. I'd like to end it with a verse that I love very much. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, if you'll just give me a little time.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0354par0076	Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0353par0077	And there's something that's been bothering me a lot lately that I want to say in a minute. We've all supported Operation Afrin for Turkey's border security, and we wish the hero Mehmetchik/o success from here. I'll give you this example: In 1974, the late Ecevit, in Operation Peace of Cyprus, was also the head of this extraction, but he never used it as a domestic political tool.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0355par0079	For God's sake!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0353par0080	He never cost the CHP. "The success of Turkey," he said, "the success of Turkish soldiers." Now I expect his sensitivity, his sensitivity. Don't use this as an internal political material.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0355par0082	Speak to Sezgin Godkulu, and tell Selin Sayek Böke.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0353par0083	This is the success of the hero Mehmetçik.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0356par0084	Erbakan, the late Erbakan...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0353par0085	And I say this, a verse that I love so much, that I say no to the history of Ataturk, the ruthless man, the womanless assembly, unconscionable justice, and the thieving politician. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0357par0088	There's been a bullying of the CHP, Mr. President. They're probably mad because there's no female group vice president.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0358par0089	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0357par0090	There's no female legislature, no female court clerk.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0358par0091	Mr. Burcu Koksal and his friends, our Afyonkarahisar MP, I submit to your votes that those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article, which I read according to the order of contradiction: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment to the 535th Amendment to the Law and Law Laws of the 7th Amendment to the Act of Value Taxes, which is currently held in 535 rows. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Utku Cakirözer Musa Pine Sibel Özdemir Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Serdal Külcuoğlu The following joke has been added to Article 27 of the Law No. 7 - 3065. "Six. In determining the cost of construction in exchange for the land, it is based on the amount specified by the contractor on the cost of the dwelling or workplace, on the second part of Article 267 of the Tax Usul Act. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0359par0104	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0358par0105	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0360par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0358par0107	It's Mr. Serdal Welcuoğlu who wants to talk about the motion. Mr. Wellercuoğlu, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0361par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start with the matter of the traitor. Even if we don't approve of his actions -- even if he is President -- he can't accuse a citizen of the Republic of Turkey of treason because he doesn't think like he does, he can't take away his right to education, he has no right. This is not Patagonia or the banana republic, and everyone has to know their authority and their place. Our dear poet Nazim Hikmet described who the traitor was. Members of the law, I have taken a pledge on the 7th Amendment of the Law Bill 535 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. Construction sector is the head of the engine sectors of growth in Turkey. It's a huge amount of industry nutritional and supportive construction industry, but today the construction industry has collapsed. Despite these supports, it seems impossible for him to recover. There are thousands of housing stocks, sales are largely down. A year ago, the tune of construction iron was $1,200, and today it was $2,800, and the cubic meter of concrete was up to $97 last year, and today it was 150.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0362par0115	He's in another country, we don't have him!
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0361par0116	The mortgage has increased from 1.8% monthly interest rate to 1.8%. The exchange materials have also increased by 100 percent. Once a year, producers started giving a raise every three months. The housing isn't sold, the costs are going up. Last week, a liter of gasoline found $6 in some areas. So the price of gasoline is $2.72, the tax is $3.28. Government investments have slowed down because the government has dried up. Road investments are undersourced, so the deadlines are always postponed. Dear friends, I have reports from 2016 and 2018 of the Ministry of Transport's investments in Mersin. See, projects related to the ways: The way of the Virtue-Silfke-Tashist, which began in 1985, ends in 2016. It is said that today, the date shown in 2018 has risen to 2021. Again, the Silifke-Mut road will be finished in 2019. It is said that it has now been moved to 2021. Again, the Silifke-Gülnar-Alysik road will be finished in 2018. It has been said that it has been moved to 2021. Again, the road to the Tartar tourism zone will be completed in 2016. It was said that it moved to 2018. Again, it began on the way to Mersin-Bözne in 2004 -- which was said only in 2016 -- will end in 2017. It was said that it was moved to 2021 in today's programme. Again, he began his journey with Çamlıya in 2013, and was finished in 2018. He was called, moved to 2021. In this regard, our Minister of Transport said: "We finish the roads in three years, not the way we used to." But we see from programs that they're only just delaying it for three years. Turkey's economy is shown to grow by tampering with numbers. If you ask anyone, you're hearing a lot of shit. Nobody talks about it, nobody talks about it. One cut was tied up in the stomach, most of it was silenced with a stick. The annual income per person dropped another $500 with the latest exchange increase, so national income per person went down to $9,500. They're the only ones who grow up to turn their backs on power. In this negative process, the deficit of government wrong policies, from the bread, from the water, from the food, from the cheese, from the olives, from the shoes he was wearing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...with indirect taxes, you have to give it up. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0363par0124	Thank you, Mr. Wellencuoglu. I submit to your votes the motion that Mr. Serdal Welkeroglu and his friends have submitted: those who have refused... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration be changed in order to determine the price of the relationship in Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 535. Meral Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Dilek Öcalan Imam Taşçıer Sibel Yiğitalp Saadet Capable Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0364par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0363par0135	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0365par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0363par0137	This is our Batman MP, Mr. Saadet Skill, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Skilly. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0366par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, there is another bag of legislation in the General Assembly today, and unfortunately we're working on VAT. We all know it's the easiest form of tax. How is the market going to reflect on the market, what additional burden will it bring to the tax-laden citizen, what will the long-term consequences be, is there any clarity? No, there's no clarity, unfortunately, that's the kind of stuff we spend on a lot of laws. However, every law -- in its production processes -- should be about the long-term planning of society and the country's future. So, more specifically, every law has to be taken in the process of building structural measures. Because in today's world, concepts such as democracy, human rights, rule of law, freedom of expression are known to directly affect the economy of states, and investments are regarded as a measure of democratic standards. Dear friends, unfortunately the government is trying to save Turkey by improving the investment climate because it can't run democracy, but it's futile because it doesn't accept democratic standards as a measure, so with these economic improvements and investments, unfortunately, there is no improvement in Turkey. It's probably because there's a lot of areas that aren't stable, and there's probably about 20 bags of legislation that have passed, but no one's pleased because the structural measures that the world has measured in the process of making the law have never been taken. In short, bans, antidemocratic practices, pressures can't improve in any way. Look, Freedom House has announced the 2018 Freedom Report. Turkey has been the country where freedom has been the most regressed in the past decade. Are we happy about that? No, of course not. But at this rate, I'd also like to point out that we're not behind in worrying that Turkey's grade will be much lower. One of the areas where freedom retreats, unfortunately, is the media that our friends stress in their talks. The government strongly rejects the situation, despite those who voice censorship, obstruction and so on in Turkey, but on the other hand, it continues to block media freedom of the press. However, it is known that it is not possible to speak of democracy, freedom, without a free working press in a country. One of the most obvious practices of authoritarian methods is clearly intended to silence the free press, and there are many examples in the world. They think they can seize the freedom of public knowledge to conceal the unwarranted government, injustice, corruption, and so on, and the pressure against non-verbal media is relentless. The closest example -- our friends have stressed today, but I want to stress -- trustees and employees assigned to the Liberal Democracy newspaper. So there's another free press that's being forced to commit with a trustee again when it can't be bought. Earlier, dozens of TVs, radios, websites have been shut down, and all opposition has been intended to be silenced, especially the HDP. Of course, it was also aimed at implementing one type of human imposition in this way. The only belief, the one that wants to create a system of thought, is that those who run the country are trying to condemn the whole community with the press, with the same headlines served from the same place, with the news, with the right to get real information from the public. Yes, it's true, it's very clear that mass communication is influenced by human attitudes, it's very effective to shape them, but we know that there are still masses of people in the world of modern times who see all the challenges, despite all the pressures, the wrongs, the questioning, the non-verbalism, who are at least 50 percent of the society, and resist media bans because they're trying to get to the truth, by following the rapidly developing, technological communication tools around the world, by following the flow of information around the world. Now, it's not that hard to learn in different languages, you know, you can easily provide the text in different languages with the most wonderful network of modern times, the Internet interface. From any language to Turkish, even Kurdish, you can do the translation at once and get the information you want and read the news. For him, wherever it's done, wherever it's happening, the whole world is watching and getting news of what's happening. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I finish?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0367par0149	Here you go, Mr. Skillful.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0366par0150	For example, in Africa, where you're trying to make yourself taboo, the looting reports by the ESO, the images of civilian massacres, are found on social media and foreign media, in large numbers of the world's media. What the ESSO has done with tolerance may be what you call the property of the poor people who have fled from their home, from their store, from their belongings, from their food, from their clothing, from their possessions. You can watch this very clearly again on all the world's channels or on social media. Again, during this raid, you can watch the conflict within themselves and the wounded from the world press. There were millions of people in the world watching the people of Afrin, who did not meet the OSO invaders, how they left their homes, how they emptied their villages, even stole turkeys, chickens, as they said, from the coops of the villagers who had left their homes and fled, by hugging them, and by saying, "God is great." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, we need to know that the pressure on the press will be of no use, that the public's right to information cannot be prevented. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0368par0155	Thank you, Mr. Skillful. Mr. Saadet Capable and his friends have submitted the motion to your votes: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. There are three suggestions on the 8th article, which I read according to the order of arrival: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Law Bill 535 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştaş Osman Baydemir Dilek Öcalan İmam Taşçıer Sibel Yiğalp Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0369par0168	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0368par0169	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0370par0170	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0368par0171	It's Mr. Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan who wants to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0371par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the government says we don't agree. He said to the motion, but as far as we can see, the government's proposal is to withdraw the contents of this clause.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0372par0177	Revize, not withdrawal.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0371par0178	At least its contents have changed greatly. Yes, we actually had a lot of discussion about this clause, especially in the commission stage, and one of the main points of discussion of our party was that the arrangement would be withdrawn, absolutely. We have seen rising objections and opposition from many people, and we hope that you've realized the mistake you've been in and the mistake you've made, and you'll draw the substance completely. I'm going to try to make a presentation on what kind of arguments, what processes, and what provisions that we think should be removed, in order for the public to have information. Members of parliament, this bill was actually put into circulation before it came to the Commission, and it was described as a huge reform, and it was mentioned -- there was talk of a 33-year-old problem being solved. But we saw that there was no reform at the coming point, that the government had made arrangements for the benefit of a small group, the pyramid way, and we expressed it, and we objected, dear friends. In fact, we're always bringing up the same issue in all similar discussions. We say Turkey needs an absolute tax reform of the Turkish community. It's not 80 million people, it's only 80 people, it's only a small percentage of regulations, and we're saying it only hurts tax justice. The point of Turkey's economy today, unfortunately, has been a product of that understanding. There are three or five people in this country who are not concerned about the increase in dollars and euros right now. But at minimum wage, the exchange power, the exchange rate, as the exchange rate goes up, at least 5 million families melt down, watching and watching with anxiety. Because the increase is not only with currency rates, but, for example, fuel, it affects all the basic needs that we have in our daily life. As of today, the gallon of gasoline has reached $6, dear friends, and almost $3.5 of this is just tax, which is tax that the citizen pays directly in the way we call indirect tax. This is why we say tax reform is essential, that instead of tax burdening citizens' vital needs, we say we should tax Rant, wealth; instead of giving tax-free fuel to millions of dollars of yachts, we tell the farmer, for example, that support should be given to the farmer. Today the foreign trade deficit continues to grow, depending on the current growth. At a point where the cari deficit is $52 billion per year, where interest rates, inflation is increasing, unfortunately, the government is not taking the necessary measures; rather than taking precautions, as we have stated -- some speakers before me -- are being made exceptions from the regular VAT. These exceptions must now be stopped absolutely, dear friends, a tax reform should be brought to light by permanent solutions instead of palliative solutions. Now, in the first form of the bill, if there is VAT which has been in place for more than a year, the VAT will be extradited in six months' time. We already know that businesses are going to buy a $160 billion VAT stock, and that's what's expected. That's how the government tells businesses they're going to pay for it. In return for such a statement, this 160 billion lira will be paid from the treasure. Now, in the face of this situation, we asked the government, what will the government pay in this environment where there are billions of dollars in deficits in the budget before the first half of the year? And we said that the only way to finance it is either a new tax release or a new tax release. And a very troubling arrangement in terms of law technique, an arrangement that must be challenged. The powers vested in the Minister of Finance are as well as in other regulations... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, to complete my promise...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0373par0185	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0371par0186	Yes, and it's a very troubling arrangement in terms of law technique, because the Minister of Finance is given unlimited powers, and as we pointed out, many laws have been given these powers. During which period, there is an arrangement that only the Finance Minister and only the Finance Minister will determine which sectors, according to whom, how to give money from the treasure. It's very dangerous; it's also an arrangement that we all need to discuss; well, it's an arrangement that can lead to practices in favor of those close to power, which we absolutely disagree with as a fundamental criticism. Dear friends, as we say, a tax reform is essential because that's what we understand by the public's reaction. We've told you many times that you can't collect taxes. The VAT and OTV collection rate is 49 per cent, according to data from the Accounting General Directorate in 2017. Now, that's a very low number because the public doesn't trust tax justice. The tax offices are no longer able to collect because of tax pardons that have been issued almost twice a year. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We defend and hope that this arrangement should be withdrawn. My compliments to all of you, good evening.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0374par0192	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. Now, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan and his friends have submitted the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading another motion on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 8 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Musa Çam Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Kazim Arslan Utku Çakırözer Sibel Özdemir Article 29 of the Law No. 8-3065; In the first sentence of "a" (2), the expression "retrol and non-refundable" was removed from the article during the period of the "taxation and service" in the second sentence of the same joke, provided it is not "refunded and cannot be paid off by a reduction of 12 months. B) Number (3) has been added "to its statement following its declaration of charity. " The number c (4) joke has been modified as follows, and the same article has been added to the following joke. "4. According to Article 322 of the Tax Code, the value tax on the value added to the value of what has become worthless can be reduced during the period of taxation written on which you will receive damages (as such it is necessary to consider a reduction in the value of the value of the value tax tax tax tax tax, taken into account as a cost for the assessment of the institutional tax matrix in accordance with Article 323 of the Tax Law.) "5. The Council of Ministers shall reduce the twelve months of this clause to the extent of the value value tax that cannot be removed through sectors, business sizes and reduction due to the source of the value added value tax, to the legal level again, to the extent of the twenty-four months; the Ministry of Finance shall reduce the amount set for reductions and return of time set in this clause (2); the amount of time set for the reductions and return of this clause, given the size of sectors, the size of business and reduction of the value added value tax, which cannot be removed by means of the source of the business tax, and will not be reduced to any other tax reductions, except in accordance with the amount of the amount of tax, and in accordance with the amount of the amount of the amount of taxable tax, which cannot be reduced, and will not be reduced by the same amount of the amount of the amount of taxes, and will be reduced by the same amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, according to the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, by which has been reduced by the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, and by the amount of tax, by the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of tax, by the amount of time specified, by the amount of tax, by the amount of tax, by the amount of tax, by the amount of tax, and by the amount of tax, and by the amount of tax, by the amount of time set of tax, and by the amount of tax, by the amount of tax. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0375par0209	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0374par0210	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0376par0211	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0374par0212	This is Mr. Kazim Arlen, our Denizli MP, who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. lion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0377par0216	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on the 535th Amendment to the Law of Value Taxes, and on the 8th Amendment to the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. I salute you all with love. Dear lawmakers, we've been discussing two types of tax arrangement for the past two weeks. A week ago, we discussed a tax arrangement, and now we continue negotiations with a new tax arrangement. I'd like to point out that the tax bag last week's cargo to the state is 17 billion Turkish liras, and I'm also saying that the burden that will be brought with this bill will reach 10 billion Turkish dollars. However, despite such opportunities, are these provisions beneficial despite new arrangements? Realistically speaking, our markets and taxpayers don't see that benefit. Now, with these regulations, legislation is being passed to favour certain sectors in the narrow area, mass tax reform is being avoided, and new changes are still being made by interim patching tax laws. As a result, the citizen faces new taxes, and especially honest taxpayers continue to pay his bill very heavily. Again, I would like to point out that this bill, unfortunately, seems to be far from a comprehensive tax reform aimed at the public's efficient, fair, transparent collection of taxes. As the VAT exception to certain sectors continues to recognise the advantage of tax returns, the taxation system deviates from its true purpose, and because of these frequent changes, the taxpayers lose a little bit more confidence in the state every day. What needs to be done is to make it fair, instead of filling the VAT system with exceptions, which is basically a simple tax system. The best arrangement in VAT is to lower tax rates, allowing a practical measure to be applied in the market, in the tax system, in everyone's memory.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0378par0220	Mr. lion, a moment of your time. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have reached the end of our working time. Therefore, according to the second joke of Article 55 of the Civil Code, I submit to your votes that our working period should be extended until the meeting of the vote of Article 8 of the Common Law is completed: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0379par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, our existing tax laws include exceptions and exemptions to a dozen addresses, just as you did in the Public Contraction Act. All changes expressed as tax reform reveal a tax system that has been permanently patched with new changes. The change in these 8th Articles now is indeed making the citizen dependent on the authority of the responsible administration by giving the tax refunds that should be paid to him in accordance with the authority of the Council of Ministers. Can you imagine, on the one hand, bringing back the VAT? You're bringing in an arrangement, and by giving it to the Council of Ministers, you're raising the 12 months of extradition to 24 months. So from twelve months to twenty-four months, I'd like to point out that it's absolutely unfair to keep the taxpayer's tax return there and keep it in your hands, and it's the most unjust thing to do. Dear lawmakers, if the government is sincere in this matter, it must and must quickly resolve these VAT extraditions from the state that has been waiting for years and the state the business is looking forward to. If you want the market to relax a little bit, why don't you return the VAT of the business community, the business community that the government is going to get?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0380par0226	There's no money, brother.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0381par0227	No money, money; they bought it. They're wasteful merchants.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0379par0228	You're committed to giving, but you're doing everything you can to avoid it. Well, then, what's the point of making that law? Let's not pass the law, he'll get it, and you can keep what the citizen has in your pocket.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0380par0230	They're gonna fool people till the election.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0381par0231	The borrower eats out of his purse. They didn't sell it, they didn't borrow it.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0379par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0382par0233	Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0379par0234	Now, such practices are really reducing the trust of the citizens and increasing the distress of the business world. You know what's important, my dear friends? The key points in the economy are: One, a comprehensive tax reform is needed. First of all, not just pieces like this, but literally, to make it easier for the taxpayer to pay taxes and create more paybacks and eliminate unfair competition, eliminate the informal economy, activate the wiper system, increase the income of the state and prevent this unfair competition between the citizens and the taxpayers. I salute you all with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0383par0239	Thank you, Mr. lion. I submit to your votes the motion from our naval MP, Mr. Kazim lion and his friends: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the third motion on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Common Law shall be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Vedat Demiröz Article 29 of the Law No. 8 - 3065 A) The second sentence of the second sentence of the number (2) was removed from the text of the clause during the taxation period in which the delivery and service took place. B) Number (3) has been added to its statement following its declaration. The following joke was added after "c" (3) and the current (4) joke was identified according to this. (PHP 4 = 4.0.6) The value tax on the value tax, which is considered worthless under Article 322 of the Tax Code, can be reduced during the period of taxation written on damages (as such it is necessary to take into account the value value of income or institutional tax tax tax tax, taken into account in order to be reduced under this joke, according to Article 323 of the Tax Act.) Thank you, Mr. Oz. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0384par0255	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0383par0256	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0385par0257	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0386par0258	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-28sit04spe0383par0259	I'm reading the reason: Here you go, Mr. Oz. The proposal aims to remove the provision from the draft text, which stipulates that the value-inclusion tax cannot be paid by discount in 12 months. Members of parliament, I submit to your votes the motion that the Commission has passed, which has been passed by the government: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit to your votes in accordance with the motion adopted by Article 8: Those who accept... those who refuse... the 8th article has been accepted. Congressmans, since our work period is over, it is now 14 p.m. on Thursday (March 29th 2018) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish you all a good evening.
