tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough numbers for a meeting, and we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019 and the Central Management Computation Act of 2017. Under the schedule, we'll be doing the third round of interviews today. The third round includes the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, Justice Ministry, Criminal and Execution Institutions, Tutukevs Employment Institution, Turkey Justice Academy, Turkey Human Rights and Equality Agency, the Ministry for Protection of Personal Data, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Food, Agriculture and Animalry Ministry, the Ministry of Forestry and Alcohol Market Editing, Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editor-in-Chief, State Water Administration General Directorate and the Turkish Institute of Water budget and final accounts. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament will be promised to conduct talks on the tour by order of the decision, with the promise of 70 minutes to inform political party groups and their opinions on the request of Article 62 of the Interior Charter. These times can be used by more than one speaker and will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. I offer this information to your appreciation, to your attention. In the third round, I read the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: MHP; Ankara MP Sadir Durmaz, Adana MP Ayşe Sibel Ersoy, Kurıkkale MP Halil Özturk, Tokat MP Yücel Bulut, İstanbul MP Memet Bkent Karataş, İzmir MP Hasan Kalyoncu, Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. GOOD PARTI; Muğla MP Metin Ergun, Ankara MP Şenol Bal, Antalya MP Hasan Subaşi, Antalya MP Feridun Bahshi, Konya MP Fahrettin Yoshüz, Isparta MP Aylin Gütür. AK PARTI; İstanbul MP Erol Kaya, Adana MP Ahmet Zenbilci, Alexei MP Ilyas Candy, Giresun MP Sabri Özturk, Bursa MP Osman Mesten, Afyonkarahisar MP İbrahim Yurdunuseven, Balıkesir MP Pakize Şakize Muydemir, SETimes MP Emine Zeybek, Aydın MP Reza Posacı, Kayseri MP Hülya Nergis, Antalya MP İbrahim Aydın, Güzhane MP Cihan Pektaş, Bursa MP Refi Özen, Balıkesir MP Belgin Uygur. HDP; İzmir MP Murat Çepni, Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran, Samuel MP Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu, Batman MP Necdet İpekım, Demirtaş MP Erdal Aydemir, Mersin MP Ridvan Turan, Şanlıurfa MP Nusrettin Maskin, Şanlıurfa MP Ayşe Başaran, İzmir MP Serpil Kemalbay Pekkeğügügü. CHP; İstanbul MP Emine Gülizar Emecan, İstanbul MP Gökan Zeybek, İzmir MP Murat Ser, Ankara MP Murat Emir, Çorum MP Çöse, İstanbul MP Zeynel Emecan, Ankara MP Tekin Bingoğlu, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, Adana MP Ayhan Barut, Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Manisa MP Bekir Başevirgen, Mersin MP Cengiz Gökçel, Tekirdağ MP Özcan Aygun. In the name of the individuals: Lehte, İzmir MP Yaşar Kharpınar. Justice Minister Abdulhamit Gul, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Murat Kurum, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Bekir Pakdemirli. In the name of the individuals: Aydın MP Suleiman Bulbül. Now, first, I'm going to make a promise to the MHP Group. The first statement is from Ankara MP Sadir Durmaz. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0002par0068	Mr. President, before I start speaking, I ask the citizens of Cenab who died in the crash of the high-speed train to Ankara and the commuter train to the suburbs to have mercy and immediate healing for our wounded. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group on the Central Management Budget of 2019 and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization of 2017 Central Management Law bill and the budgets of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly. The Nationalist Movement Party, which received its inspiration from the idea of Turkish nationalism carved into stone in the Orhun Scrolls, had a semi-century history in Turkish political history and had its politics ahead of its country and nation, so from the past, it took place in the hearts of our nation, along with the concepts of the state and nation. The National Movement Party has always respected the decisions of the national will, based on consensus in its politics. The Nationalist Movement Party and its staff, who consider nationalism and democracy to be twin brothers, have always and under all circumstances believed and trusted the conquest of the mighty Turkish nation. For the solution to every problem that concerns our country, without looking for political interests, he tried to share his findings and proposals with constructive opposition in the basis of reconciliation, without looking at them as to what would be my winner? Our party has been careful not to break the truth, not to make the problems bigger, not to turn it into abuse material, as it presents proposals to address the primary problems of society. The National Movement Party, which puts a great emphasis on the environment and urbanism area, has shaped its approaches with an understanding of the future, in the trust of the Ayats. In 1977, the National Movement Party also approached the issue with the same precision as explaining its community and environmental health programme in 1995. Dear lawmakers today, problems such as increasing populations, irregular migrations and distorted urbanization may lead to many negatives in the field of environmental and urbanism, but it is possible to reach solutions with rational policies. Our greatest help in this is the common intellectual projects in the light of science, and, of course, our historical cultural acquish. Our civilization has designed its cities human-centered, built the world, made it beautiful. In addition, as the late Turgut Canveri was quoted, he did not ignore that while he was building the city, he neglected to neglect the generation and that the neglected generation would destroy the city that was built. Therefore, our understanding of environment and urbanism must be evaluated with national consciousness. Mr. President, dear MPs, we, the National Movement Party, see man as a part of nature, not the owner of nature. Therefore, it is our most basic duty to preserve the nature that we are part of, to make our homeland sacred, and to leave it as a blessed legacy to our future. Dear friends, the land is not infinite and endless. Excessive use and construction of agricultural land today are among the most important problems in both the world and our country. According to TÜİK data, in 1992 we had 27.6 million hectares of agricultural land, and in 2017 it was reduced to 23.4 million hectares. So in twenty-five years, we've lost land the size of Iconia. When we need so much land-based production, construction, nonprofit allocation and use of productive farmland must be avoided, for sure. Honourable MPs, do not disturb the balance of the great God of Rahman. When we have given the divine warning, it will mean that we will not obey it, but will by our own hands break the balance of the land, the air, the water, the nature, the resources of life, that we will consume by polluting the resources of life, that we will succumb to our earthly ambitions, to the right of future generations, and to disobey God's command. Our people have to pay the price for extreme concreteification, the wrong zoning practices that ignore nature, and the environmental destruction that they face from time to time, with natural disasters, the lives of our people are at risk. Buildings on creek beds, earthquake-proof buildings, concrete cities where contact is almost impossible, and when nature's reality confronts them, our human is helpless. This issue, which has been re-opened by recent natural disasters, must not be ignored; projects that ignore nature must not be given a gate, and measures that are at stake must be taken quickly. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the Environmental Effect Evaluation Report is a vital issue for our country today when ecological problems are increasing. However, our problems with practice and inspection continue. Under no circumstances should the CED be applied carefully without being sacrificed to politics, controls should be carried out with responsibility and serious care. Because an ecologically damaged region is very difficult to restore and very costly. Dear friends, recycling is the restoration of a substance as raw material. Recycling provides energy savings and reduces environmental problems to a minimum and also deals with environmental pollution. Advanced countries make serious investments in recycling. We should seriously think about zero waste and recycling and invest in the field with various incentives and supports with awareness projects. The Department of Environment and Urbanism's Zero Waste Project is a project of vital importance that is delayed. The applications initiated on this subject must be immediately spread throughout the country, co-operated with institutions, creating social consciousness. Dear MPs, I'd like to say a few words about zoning peace. About the peace of the estate, Mr. Minister, it is lawful with the state of the state. We'd like the municipalities to be involved in this halalization. Unfortunately, our municipalities, whose every need is needed from the birth of our citizens to the death, have been ignored in the process of zoning peace. The separation of a 10 per cent share of municipalities in the region, where 9 million people would apply for an agreement on zoning peace with some 7.5 billion euros in income, would have contributed greatly to our municipalities. There may have been a chance of a breath of air for our municipalities who have recently faced serious economic difficulties, but unfortunately the municipalities have been left out of the process. Furthermore, accurate information of citizens applying for zoning peace in private status areas such as urban status, archaeological status sites is of utmost importance in the future. Dear friends, cities are like living organisms. For various reasons, our cities need transformations, changes, and improvements. In urban areas, transformations must be carried out by maintaining the identity of that city while making renovations. Otherwise, there will be cities in the future that have no identity and look alike. In addition, when urban transformations are being conducted, the space should not only be considered physically, but also the physical state of the field, as well as the economic, social, and cultural situation of those living there. The same mistakes should not be made about betraying cities that are frequently criticised, but the towers of arrogance that undermine our cities by not insisting on vertical architecture should be abandoned. Dear President, the esteemed MPs, the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, with nearly 20,000 personnel, have been acting as acting trustees for over five years. Problems are being observed in solving problems related to the institution and should be appointed to the General Manager immediately. Dear members of our Veteran Assembly, the budget of $2.5 billion that will be earmarked to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism for projects that we can't talk about, especially the issues we're talking about, is not going to be enough, of course, but we hope to overcome problems with rational policies and strategic planning. I hereby wish the budget to be good for our country, for our nation, for your grand delegation, and for the citizens who follow us on their screens.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0003par0084	Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. The second statement belongs to Adana MP Ayşe Sibel Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0004par0089	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I pray for the mercy of God to our citizens who died during the Ankara-Konya campaign, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Action Party Group on the budgets of the Central Management Budget of 2019 and Central Management Act of 2017, on the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, on the budgets of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. The budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget of 2019 was set at 2 billion 573m 286,000 euros, the budget of its subsidiary Tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate was set at $1 billion 113m 8616,000. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has expanded its area of responsibility with changes made in 2011 and with new institutions involved in the government system of the presidency, and has been restructured by the binding of TOKI, Real Estate Bank, National Real Estates and Local Governments General Administrations; protection, development, construction, urban transformation, urbanisation, and responsibility in areas related to local governments. The area of responsibility is at the center of our life and living space, allowing policy and projects to become more visible, while the ministry directly and indirectly plays a role in the development of our country. The most strategic role in the long term in our country's economic war will be taken over by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Renewable energy and zero waste are essential for sustainable development. With the recycling of the waste that we've been working on recently, it's been seen in studies where you can save 60 percent of energy, 80 percent water savings and 95 percent air pollution, compared to the process of producing paper from scratch using raw materials only with paper recycling. My indication is that these issues will also reduce external addiction and the need for foreign currency. At this point, we have no doubt that the Ministry will work with the necessary policies and those policies for the necessary incentives. In addition, renewable energy is a common and national energy source for each country. The only thing that needs attention is that the technology that will transform renewable energy sources into electricity is domestic and national. The environment is the most important legacy and capital left to future generations. The future will be shaped by green energy, green industry and green cities. Of course, it's impossible for our Ministry to do all this on its own. At first, our Ministry of National Education -- infinity of environmental awareness for future generations -- and the key implementation point of development policies -- is that the local governments have major tasks. We believe that the Bank of Real Estate, which has been re-instructed and re-activated within the ministry, will be the solution to many problems, especially the housing sector in our country, especially the financing of the housing sector. The bank must quickly activation, increase the number of branches in order for the service to spread across the country. In addition, it is more important for the housing and construction industry's engine role in the country's economy to benefit from social responsibility and public benefit, to leave other deposits and accession banks. Cities, as a whole, are expected to provide for all those living in it. Our cities, which have been cemented over the years by efforts to grow and develop, have lost their identity and nature and become one kind of settlements, and need to reach the level our cities deserve in order to show the country's civilization and the stage of development. I support the City Project, which the ministry expects to spread throughout the country in the coming period. In this way, the identities of cities will be restored and provided for. In particular, the purpose of green cities aimed at using renewable resources in the project is essential to sustaining the project. Our City Project covers four different counties, including Gaziantep, Kayseri, Konya and Bolu, in the first place. Pilot-elected cities are reflected in architecture and socioeconomic history and are intended to interpret the traces of the past with today's conditions. We are especially pleased that the concepts of human design and intelligent city together will be presented as a new vision of our civilization's understanding of urbanism. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are provided with two recordings of our presence in our geography, validation and proof of international law. One is the deed and the other is the population record. In recent years, we have seen recordings and population records of the first attacks and destruction of a city or the region, planned by global forces and implemented by local collaborators, in 1991 and 2003 and recently in Menbic. Therefore, it is vital that our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, which operates over 9 million citizens a year and serves 20 million citizens, work with effective and quality services and, in our day's time, keep their records digitally, and above all, it is a matter of national security. In this scope, more than 57 million parcels registered on the deed, including the establishment of the Tapu Kadastro Information System and the transfer of all property information of our country into the electronic environment; the establishment of the local real estate system, which shows the state of the parcels, are encouraging to ensure integration into the system and the establishment of the Webtapus System, at a rate of 99.6 per cent.6 per cent. It is also favoured by us to prevent time and workforce loss by implementing e-visitations for our citizens who are processing, paying tuition and return capital service costs to be paid electronically on a credit card. As part of the deed and cadastro activities, the treasure is worth $10.7 billion in 2017, and about $8.5 billion in tuition revenues as of November 2018, showing how accurate it is to take into account the processing density and volume of the ease set in place. The deed and the Kadastro General Directorate are one of the most business-designed institutions known to all of us to work at a busy pace. From time to time, we are also affected by the sufferings of the workers. In accordance with Article 1007 of the Civil Law, it would be possible to prevent compensation for damages caused by non-insulting failures due to their responsibilities due to the fact that the employee's registration has been kept. In order for our citizens living abroad to be able to do or invest in our country, the property and cadastro transactions in Turkey must be continued by increasing service points by establishing the necessary IT infrastructure for them to obtain information. Again, members of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism who work in the field must be secured for financial-management damage after business accidents with individual accident insurance during their mandates. The implementation of sufficient personnel purchases to reduce heavy personnel loads, the implementation of legal and administrative regulations will further increase the work efficiency. Mr. President, when I finish my speech, I wish that the central management budget of 2019, which is being discussed, would be a blessing to our country, to our nation, to our Veterans Assembly, and to our great delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0005par0106	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Thirdly...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0006par0108	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0007par0109	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0005par0110	I thought I'd give up making promises to all the group vice presidents at the end of the tour, because the group's vice presidents have a demand for words, and I have a few requests, and I know you want to talk about the accident. When the tour's over, I'll promise all the members of the group to make demands. The third word belongs to Kırıkkale MP Halil Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0008par0115	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on behalf of the Justice Department budget of 2019. I salute the General Assembly. By the way, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who lost their lives in the high-speed train accident in Ankara this morning and to the wounded. Honourable lawmakers, annual budgets are texts that estimate revenue costs during the coming period, examine and allow implementation of them in place. Therefore, the state is responsible for the performance and credibility of budgets. At the beginning of the year, the amount of expenditures promised and the consistentness of their pens with the figures that took place at the end of the year are here. The facility of an accessible and efficient justice system is directly proportional to the efficiency of financial resources. According to the previous year, the budget of the Ministry of Justice we discussed increased by about 30 per cent in 2019 to $18 billion. Three of the principles of public financial management are particularly important in justice budget spending. These are efficiency, efficiency, and efficiency. Dear lawmakers, throughout human history, justice has been a basic need for the continuation of social life. The basic principle our citizens seek at almost every stage of their social and economic lives is justice. In this case, the quality and quality of the services provided for this important concept is prominent. The concept of justice is more important and indispensable to a country than economic growth. As a matter of fact, we see that social crises, economic instability, political stalemate, have always appeared in societies with great injustices. As the National Movement Party, we view justice as the basis of basic rights and freedoms and the basis of the state. On the other hand, we believe that the rule of law is one of the basic duties of the state, not the power of power, but the protection of right and the establishment of social harmony through law. Our expectation is that the Justice Department grant's rates within the central budget will rise in a stable and qualitative way. If this can be achieved, goals and basic expectations in the field of justice will be fulfilled. As the National Movement Party, I would like to share some of our other expectations in the field of justice: the creation of a family lawyer system that will cover all of our citizens is a fundamental need before our country. Again, in the same way, it will be appropriate to add the title of the law protection policy to our insurance system, and there will be a large number of financial and spiritual damage with it. In the violence against our veterans, our elders, our disabled, our women and children, it would also be wise to remove the statute of limitations on the trial, and to avoid the expense of tuition and so on in legal cases against this section. Honored lawmakers, when justice is properly distributed to each group, our dedicated employees in our courts need justice as well. First, we need to be able to form a justice service class in the State Officers' Law. There are still immediate challenges in the working conditions of our judges and prosecutors. On the other hand, the clerk, the bailiff, the driver, the trustees, the teller, the executives, the executive and editors, the information processing officers, the technical staff and the nurses and the health officers in the prison must also be improved. The bill proposal of the National Movement Party on 3600 additional indicators should be brought up immediately, and the additional indicators of our employees should be raised. Our bailiffs who are still in charge should be taken into the general administrative service class. Minister, as far as I know, there are about 5,000 bailiffs in Turkey. If these bailiffs are taken into the general administrative services class, there will be a $300 monthly reflection on their salaries. This will amount to a thousandth of the Ministry of Justice budget, about $18 million. This will not bring a large financial burden in terms of the ministry's budget. We demand the immediate consideration of this matter as the National Movement Party. Again, the rights and working conditions of execution guards must be improved at once, and the share of weariness must be maintained backwards. On the other hand, the duty fee that court employees have received before, regardless of any criteria, cannot be received by most of our employees who are working overtime due to heavy criteria. These criteria must either be lightened or removed. In exchange for overtime, the legal fees and permits must be carried out. The work of judicial reform must be completed immediately and carried out with legislation approved by all sections of the justice system. Respected lawmakers, my colleagues, whose lives have been on the run in our judicial system, also have demands from our Ministry. The lack and expectation of a modern courthouse, where all courts are still present in the capital, Ankara and other provinces. In the UYAP system, the broader powers needed by lawyers must be identified immediately. The public defenders should be able to meet their financial expectations as the additional problem continues. The arrangement that allows all our lawyers to get green passports must be carried out immediately. Again, 18 percent of the VAT in law enforcement must be lowered. The development of CMUK and the legal aid system and the payment of the fees are to be made according to the price of a lawyer. Dear lawmakers, the annual share of the public budget for legal aid in our country was 1.2 euros per capita in 2012, while this amount was raised to about 1.3 euros in 2016, compared to most European Union countries. As of October 2018, the number of judges and republican prosecutors was 16,991, while the number of people working in judicial services was 60,726. The number of judges and the number of justice staff working on the basis of courts is generally lower than the average in European Union member states. One important issue -- it's very important, Mr. Minister -- is that our young brothers who study in law schools -- in the KPSS exams -- is the problem because they lack education in general upper secondary schools. For young people who graduated from law schools and prefer their professions, the ministry must give positive discrimination in hiring staff and provide additional points or additional quotas to provide employment in case our young ones graduate. The number of criminal courts dropped by 20.5 per cent in 2010-2017, but 23.7 per cent in legal courts increased by 66 per cent in administrative court. During the years I've brought you, the average duration of cases is two hundred and eighty-three days. In this regard, steps to implement target time in all courts must be accelerated in the judiciary. In our country, the healthy functioning of the law, the righteousness of justice, is no doubt vital to all of us, but today we are discussing the budget of a very comprehensive ministry with enormous structure. Yes, we all need justice in the most fair and swift way. The ministry is also trying to establish this structure according to modern norms, which we are witnessing. Without a doubt, the minister and his deputies and the precious bureaucrats are also engaged in implementing the modern justice practices that our nation has been waiting for. We will, of course, contribute to his efforts as the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0009par0135	Here, complete it, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0008par0136	I am, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we believe that justice should be in a structure where our citizens can trust the judiciary without hesitation, that justice should be in the minds and hearts, because without justice, there will be no talk of the state, the will and the will of the nation will be in danger. Finally, and I want to stress: He believes that there should be a structure that does not act in the direction of the judiciary, political authorities or certain groups, that some belonging or political preferences do not prevent the sense of justice, that always and under all circumstances, that the Justice Department budget of 2019 should be a source of charity to the entire Justice Department and to our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0010par0140	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Dear lawmakers, I have just stated that I will meet the group's parliamentary demands on the tour, or rather after the talks of the MHP Group are finished, but a member of the group said he must leave the General Assembly shortly after. If the MHP Group understands that, I'll take turns making a promise to the members of the group. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0011par0145	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey woke up this morning with another painful news. During the Ankara-Conya campaign, we woke up today with news of a speeding train crash that led to the death of nine of our citizens due to a matter they called a signaling error. I pray for God's mercy to those who have lost their lives, to those who remain behind, and to those who remain behind, that I may be patient with them. On July 8, 2018, 25 people were killed and 317 of our citizens were injured. We've made a motion to investigate whether or not there was any negligence in this accident. This motion was rejected by the Justice and Development Party Group. If our motion to investigate this train crash on July 8th had been accepted, institutions related to the roller coaster, the ministry would have been a little more cautious about it, a little more careful about it, and today, we could have been in the way of the accident because of that negligence. Discussion of issues is useful, it is important that matters be discussed, that the House should not avoid it; that it has come from the opposition does not make it trivial. Today, there may have been a slightly more plausible reason for this accident to be a signaling error, but I hope there was no neglect. I wish mercy again to our fallen citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0012par0150	Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0013par0152	Mr. President, we have learned from the statement that 49 of our citizens were injured in the accident when the high-speed train in Ankara-Konya was hit by a guidance train on the tracks during its entry to the Marchaniz Station in the morning and was wounded by the Governorate. We're so sad. We are here to pay our condolences to the families of our citizens who have lost their lives, and to the wounded, to the immediate cure. May God have mercy on our citizens. This issue of high-speed trains is a question of prestige for Turkey, one of its prestigious projects for Turkey. What will make a project the most prestigious is how well it can serve people, and how much it protects people's safety and lives. At this point, one incident after another suggests that the matter must be evaluated more seriously. I'd like to say that the importance of this matter should be given, and that we'll keep the matter under surveillance. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0014par0156	Thank you, Mr. Nightingale. Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0015par0159	Mr. President, of course, I'd like to start by pointing out that in these cases, there's no doubt that sharing pain, wishing for a cure, asking for a cure, asking for it never to happen again. Now, we've learned that one of the people who died in the accident was Joseph Orphan, a friend of ours, who is currently our candidate for the Urban MP, who is now the mayor of Bozova, who is a bureaucrat in the prime minister's office. We ask for mercy for all those who have lost their lives, for all their families, for their families, for their relatives, but there is a grave picture. On top of that, of course, it's not elegant to say words in small political accounts. The event took place around 6:30 and was announced by three different institutions of the state by the state: Anadolu Agency explains another information, followed by Ankara Governor of Transport and Ankara sharing another, third information. In Ankara, if we can't get the right information about a train crash five minutes from here, it shows that the discussions we're having here for security don't mean anything. Human life shouldn't be so worthless. Trains were privatized for a period in England, followed by heavy train accidents. Then England stepped back and reopened its public business. Now we will say who, how, how, how punished was he about Pamukova, that the circumstances of an effective, serious work were revealed? Or when we submitted a motion to investigate the Coroner here, we received reactions as to where the MPs would work if we submitted a motion to investigate each issue. That human life is worth more...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0016par0166	Go ahead, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0015par0167	...and we want to stress that politics is more responsible and that such cases should not only be avoided as accidents, but should be revealed for any technical or other reason that comes from a human being and not be repeated again. Unfortunately, it's not a policy in this country and it's not a policy in the bureaucracy, it's not a morality. We see many examples of this in distant Asia, or in European countries. Let's say we don't have that kind of style, at least the effective investigation and punishment of the responsible are the only guarantees of not repeating it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0017par0170	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0018par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. On every occasion, Parliament is not a condolence tent, it needs to be done, spoken, legalized in Parliament, to solve problems in the country. Mr. President, of course we believe in accident and fate, as is our belief, but what has happened recently in the State Railways has appeared once again in the early morning disaster, which has no longer been possible to explain with an accident logic, with its approach. In the tragedies of Pamukova and Chorus, we have warned the government, who are concerned for the most part, in earnest, in good faith. They said: "There was no train of control in the Soviet accident. " There is now, the control train is crashing into the passenger train. While investments in technology in developed countries are based on scientificity in Turkey, unfortunately, I regret to say, it's a show, based on a political interest, that has been done in a hurry, without having to check the back, without having to check the back, we've made a fast train. Look, we've made a fast train. Our citizens are paying the price for these investments. You don't get it by moving fast into the fast train system. A country that has a scientific approach to the fast train system by acting wisely. In order to show off, we quickly built the fast train, brought what was in the developed countries of Europe to Turkey. We don't find it right to play with human life in an understanding that says, "It's not right to play with human life." Three representatives of the executives are here, and I wonder what they're gonna say, but I'm going to have to ask a few questions. In all the developed countries of the world, railways have become the safest means of transportation, while in Turkey, railways have become the most unsafe means of transportation. There's got to be an explanation for this. The science between Earth and Turkey must be working backwards. Now, I'm asking you: why do you employ a engineer who has to work for seven and a half hours when the Ministry has answered a question from our Nüğde MP about the hours of the engineers' work? That's what I'm asking, that's what I'm asking. We've been watching for about four hours. You're saying there are railways, central signalization systems; well, now, our delegation from the crime scene, the Party Assembly member, who is president, according to my information from Gökan Zeybek, is colliding with the control train and a fault in signalling the passenger train. Now, there's also a problem with this administration: it's from us, it's from us, it's from us, it's from us, it's from us, it's from us, it's from us, it's from the logic of the government, it's from the public if you fill it with such staffs. 74 wounded, nine dead. We pray for immediate healing for the wounded, we pray for mercy for those who die, but I find it wrong that the government, who boasts of good things, should transfer every negative in Turkey to God. Of you is good, and of you is evil, and of Allah is evil.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0019par0182	Connect your words, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0018par0183	Yes, I'll put you through. It's a mining accident. They died well. It's called something, something... Now, if the government transfers this disaster, which we call "accidental," which is completely flawed, from neglect, to God, let God do as he knows them! Mr. President, I'm saying this without a political party distinction in Parliament. The lives that are gone are our lives, and the failures of the execution, or the flaws of the executive bureaucracy, are the primary responsibility of every member of parliament to this nation and to God. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0020par0187	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0021par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you know, the high-speed train starting today's campaign to Ankara-Konya started at 06.30, and continued its journey from Ulus, while in the sixth and seventh minutes, it collided with the guide train at Yenimahalle position, and nine of the three people died. Of course, I offer God's mercy to those who have lost their lives, their family's condolences, and my condolences to our beloved nation. Another 48 of our citizens have been transferred to the hospital. And to our wounded, I pray to God for a speedy recovery. The high-speed train, which was on the track for the cognac, was activated about four and a half years ago, and was equipped with the highest technology of its own contemporary and launched with a very advanced technology. From that day on, it's not a roller coaster. Of course, today's search began immediately after the rescue work was completed. As a result of the crime scene investigation, our relevant Ministry of Transport will begin to work again to prevent these sufferings from happening by taking the necessary steps. However, these actions will not only take place today's or yesterday's accidents, but will be carried out by the ministry and our government's work to ensure that such suffering will never, ever happen again, not by thinking about yesterday, but by creating fundamental solutions.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0022par0195	Go ahead, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0021par0196	In light of all scientific and technological data from the airway to the rail systems, these infrastructures have been launched to implement the highest standards that our saint nation deserves, if necessary, based on the most advanced activities, technology and scientific work in the world. Hopefully, with the proper detection of the problems that have arisen as a result of these investigations and investigations, we will continue to investigate our railways, our airways, and our land roads, and to develop their technology, and we will strive to offer it to the service of our beloved nation. On this occasion, I offer God's mercy again to those who have lost their lives, and my condolences to our beloved nation and to their families, and to our wounded, and to God's speedy healing, and to the General Assembly, and to them I salute.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0023par0199	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Do you have a request, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0024par0201	If you don't mind, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0023par0202	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0024par0204	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we ask God's mercy to all our citizens who died in the train crash today morning, and we ask God to heal our wounded immediately. The administrative investigation has been launched immediately and Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has appointed three prosecutors to investigate the matter. Our Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office will carefully follow the legal investigations and will follow all the insane, information, findings, to the end of this investigation if there is any negligence, imperfection, intention or lack of anything in the matter. If there's anything to do with this, all the responsible will be taken into consideration in all legal matters here. We'll follow up on that. Our government has brought a great service to our citizens on the fast train, and it has been done and done with all modern technological possibilities. They're responsible, and if there's any negligence, of course we'll present it to Mr. General Assembly when further information comes in from our minister on this matter. I'd like to now express to the esteemed General Assembly that our Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor has just launched an investigation, that three prosecutors have been tasked with this matter, and I'll also present the developments with information from our Minister of Transport to the General Assembly. Again, my condolences, on behalf of all our ministers, on behalf of our government, our nation's head. I hope all public officials will show all the precision and all necessary measures to ensure that such accidents never occur again. In this regard, all technological possibilities have been used. I say sorry again, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0025par0210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there really is a disaster. Two catastrophes repeated in the railways five months apart, many of our people lost their lives, and the number of wounded is too high. Of course, it is our duty to ask God's mercy, patience, and condolences to those who have lost their lives, but we also know that our duty is not limited. The administration and the judiciary will conduct the necessary investigations in their field, but it is clear that there has been a mission to the Parliament. My wish and my wish is that after the budget talks are complete, all parties make a joint motion to make an attempt on the railways on the basis of these two events, and on the basis of these two events, if there is a flaw, if there is a flaw, if there is a flaw, to allow our Parliament to take part. This is my wish. Building a research commission with a joint motion will allow the House to carry out its responsibility in this area. Again, I pray for God's mercy to all of our people who have lost their lives, my condolences to all of us, and to the wounded I pray for speedy healing. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Now we'll continue the negotiations from where we left off. I was meeting the parliamentary demands of the National Movement Party Group. In the fourth place, there is Yücel Bulut, a member of the slap. Here you go, Mr. Cloud. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0026par0268	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group to deliver our opinion and opinions on the budgets of the Justice Department, Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Institution of Prisons. I salute your high council. As I begin my speech, I first remember in your presence all the martyrs of the court who have been brought to Rahmetirahman, who have been brought to Rahmetirahman, first to leave us in the struggle to establish justice, which is the basis of the estate, particularly Denizli Chief Public Prosecutor Mustafa Alper Bey, Ovacık Cumhuriyet Prosecutor Murat Long Sir, and İstanbul Public Prosecutor Mehmet Selim Kiraz Sir. With great sacrifice from the attempted traitor on July 15th, I often express my gratitude to our editors, our clerks, our officers, all the judicial workers, in the presence of you, who, in the presence of all the judges and prosecutors, have taken a sharp stand against the most devious siege of the state in the late hours of the night, in an intense sense of overtime. We would like justice to be built in person, first of all, for these judicial workers, each one of whom is a pure Anatolian child, who is fed from the pure vein of Asia Minor. We want autonomy rights, promotion, appointment, transfer, and working conditions to be built into each one of them. Hopefully, we're dreaming of a Turkey where they can work in an objective system, and that's what we wish for them. Recently, the justice institution, which has become the focus of debates, has been on the agenda for years, but has been an integral part of the national character of the Turkish nation since it took part in the history scene, and is one of the most fundamental arguments in history used to describe the Turkish nation. No matter how denied, no matter how ignored, there is one fact in the whole world that must be accepted: the Turkish is judge, fair and ruling with justice. That's how we were remembered in the history scene. This necipian nation of Central Asia is not only a warrior nation that knows the military techniques of this nation, but a promise of justice to the land where it goes, to rule its lands with justice, and to rule with justice. The fact that the real Anatolian man, who has made Anatolia the North Star of the Islamic world for hundreds of years and today, has a conscience and compassion, has justice for the people he lives with. Our nation, who has opened its arms to all the oppressed throughout history, is a noble and noble nation known for its promise of justice to the world of mankind, no matter what faith it comes from, whatever creed it comes from, whatever color it comes from. How has this nation, which has been identified in history with justice, somehow become a geography where today's debates of justice are intense, and it's not off the agenda? Because almost all of the state's equipment, especially our justice mechanism, has been invaded by a Fetullahist gang, who have not been given a single shred of literature, decency, virtue, and virtue of the Turkish nation. After the 2010 referendum, this gang was organized under the mask of religion and managed to conceal itself, taking possession of all the elements of the judiciary, and rather than ruling with justice for the Turkish nation, they chose to persecute the interests and interests of Pennsylvania. For years, members of this Fetullahist organization, wearing a judge's robe, have listened to the phone calls of the citizens of this country without any legal basis. Private lives have been exposed and exposed with false judicial files. After that, assassinations of political reputations were committed against bureaucrats and politicians. People who have no guilt, no sin, have been deprived of their freedom by this gang for years, shaken by the basis of their sense of justice. Some of our people died of grief, some of them couldn't stand what happened, some of them couldn't do it in honor of what happened, chose suicide and ended their lives, and the honorable Turkish officers of this country were executed in the hands of the Fetullahist gangs. Now, there is a truth that these gangs do not see, and they ignore, that they have no authority except Allah, and that the Lord of the heavens and the earth is the best of planners. Over the years, this gang, who have secretly plundered and battered all the values of the Turkish nation, has been deciphered on the evening of July 15th, and has been torn apart in the conscience of the Turkish nation. Here, the National Movement Party has made a healthy interpretation of the 15th of July and the Turkish nation's message that night. Is there a revelation here to the nationalist Movement Party, often expressed under the roof of Parliament? I have to make a statement about this position, which is being mocked at as follows: We are the patriarchs and Turkish nationalists, not a fetullahist; we are not the ideological schizophrenics who extract wisdom from the dream of a demon in Pennsylvania; we are not a political movement to determine the map of the so-called message of a so-called mehdi, with the so-called message of the so-called mehdi, with the so-called message of the so-called mehdi. A message has come to us, it's true, this message was given by the Turkish nation in Yenikapi. The National Movement Party read this message correctly, determined its political position according to this, established a national defense barricade to establish a common mind in the common defence of the common enemy and to restore the destroyed sense of justice. It is called the Republic Alliance, and the Republic has introduced this country to the presidential government system and opened a new door for the Turkish nation. The majority acceptance of the constitutions by our nation is not enough alone to ensure social reconciliation. Seeing this, our president has called for a new door to the Turkish nation, and thousands of citizens who have been victimised for years have been sentenced by the judge, who we claim to be 4,000, connected and members of the terrorist organization -- who we consider to be a state -- and who we know or don't know. So, in order for social peace to be established, we've moved this proposal to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, with the fact that a new chance has been given to the people behind this destruction. Now, I want to give you an example very briefly. What are we trying to do? Why are we saying this in an effort to restore your sense of justice? I've got a heavy punishment chief in my hand, Istanbul 10. He's not a criminal. A heavy punishment chief, who wanted to retire with the plot of the GERPs, says about a case -- he testified himself -- says: "I looked through this file from beginning to end. The accused was supposed to be acquitted, but I was not brought to trial at the last hearing, but David Bedir, Ali Sir Peksak, and a delegation of Murat Ekdudı, and War Coş as prosecutor. They're all under arrest. I heard that the accused, who should have been acquitted, was sentenced to more than sixty years, and I was amazed. Now, the judge of this statement is a severe criminal president, who has been retired no longer with his fucking scheme, but the victim of this case is what some call the gang leader, Mr. President and we call our friend in the prison, Yakup Kürshat Yilmaz. Despite this statement, he filed his first complaint against Fetulism in Turkey in 2007, while opening doors for Turkey's 2019, he is still in solitary with the Fetullahists' conspiracy, serving 16 years in solitary confinement. Now, in action from this example, I'd like to tell you that thousands of people, people we don't know, people we don't know, are in the hands of judicial bodies under the occupation of the Fetullahists, they've been subjected to senseless punishments that we don't know anything about, and today they're doing these sentences. If the Turkish nation has survived a great disaster, if they have opened a new door, if we all have learned lessons from July 15th, they have built a new system, and if we want to keep it alive, we have to open a new door for these people, open a new life, at least get their files re-examined. So I'd like to rephrase a fact that we often emphasize. We have to discuss this pardon proposal here to re-enact the restoration of the judiciary, to be reformed, and to open the way to retrial for our citizens, who have been judged by the Fetullahist judge -- who have been judged by these judges as terrorists -- and to give them the right to a life again regarding the people whose sentence has been finalized. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0027par0284	Of course, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0026par0285	We don't claim that this bill, which we have prepared -- which is the head of Mr. Feti Star, is a sacred text, it's a controversial text. We'd like to come to the General Assembly and tell everyone what they think, because if we learned from the past and set a new road map in public, we have to bring these people back to life who have been victimized by past mistakes. And if the lady of Kuddusi Okkır, who we took in as the vault of the Ergenekon terrorist organization, can't find the money to bury her in the hall of the prison, then if she lives in misery today, God forgive us as a state. There are obligations and obligations that we have to do more than just say, we owe an apology to these people, we owe the right to a new life to those people who don't owe us an apology, and that's a sin on all of us. Since we don't have time, I have to stop talking. There were some things we were going to say, and I'm going to repeat them in another conversation, hopefully. Thank you very much, thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0028par0289	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Now, I'm talking about Istanbul MP Memet Bkent Karatas. Here you go, Mr. Karastone. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0029par0294	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I have taken a pledge on the budgets of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2019, the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey and the Protection of Personal Data. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, in my priority speech, I would like to consider what Turkey Human Rights and Equality Foundation means, what its functions are, what our expectations are, if it meets expectations enough, why this institution is important. Human rights, the most general definition, is defined as basic rights and freedoms that need to be guaranteed for all people. Human rights are rights that a person has because he's human. So it's moral, it's human, and it's full of virtue. When we look at our own cultural acquish, we see human approaches in all the concrete and non-responsive values of Turkish culture. From Orhun Books to Kutadgu Bilig, from Sheikh Edebali to Osman Gazi, to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the republic, we see the political and historical dimension of this parable. When we consider the Good-bye Hutbesi of our Lord, who is the key figure of Islam, in terms of the history of Islam, we see that human and human rights history is also a point of reference, and we read between the lines of individual rights and freedoms. Since the point of origin has prioritized the individual and has taken the individual to the center, here freedom and personality are the main point of origin. I'm going to make a point between that and what I'm about to talk about. The founding leader of our party, Basbug Alparslan Türkş Türkş at nine Ikta (Turkish Yürriyetism and Personality) hopes that a free freedom is anarchy and a free sense of discipline is dictatorship. Mr. President of the State Gardens is a twin brother of nationalism and democracy, and our main hope is freedom and personalism. It's a violation of human rights if you can bring the individual to a point where you can terrorize him with feelings and thoughts by subjecting him to the individual's personality. The point of origin of terrorist organizations began with a violation of human rights, resulting in a violation of human rights. In the end, the will to drop a bomb from the top of the House, and the villains who were ordered to slaughter babies, have also committed crimes that have violated human rights by violating their rights in this sense. What's really important is that the people who recruit people to the terrorist organization control that individual without references to individual and freedom, controlling his freedom, which is his most human right in group movements. I'd like to stress this in particular, and I propose that this approach to human rights violations from the perspective of terrorist organizations should be answered in this framework to those who claim that freedoms have been narrowed down to the West, as well as to human rights today. When we look at the historical adventure of Western approaches in this scope, does the strong nations of the United Nations apply policies to the rights or to the strong? How many human rights do they design the global system at the point of determining policies? Are those who desire to shape the entire Middle East and all geography from the Black Sea coast to Yemen, doing all this for humanity, or are they doing this to create the basis for a number of studies that can improve the standard of life for people in their homeland? Is it not a question of silence in the persecution of our relatives in East Turkistan? In this environment in which we face refugees and guests as a result of these policies, Turkey is home to 3.5 million Syrians. Another remarkable thing is that we don't need the Human Rights Agency in the previous budgets, which said, "We don't need it." He transferred their resources back into our budget. I hope we'll be a country where there's not enough human rights violations or even a country where we don't need them. We also see that applications to the European Court of Human Rights have increased in Turkey on issues related to human rights violations. It's a positive development to see that the right to individual application to the Constitutional Court is a measure of prevention, but it's also a case in our country that knows the existence of those who try to exploit the process as well as those who want to discredit each other and put everyone in the same bag in the same bag, as it is in the state's efforts to maintain a moral and human attitude towards the radical measures against the terrorist operation we've been subjected to. It is clear where the National Movement Party stands on the decisive course of the fight against terrorism and calls it the state until the end. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, another institution that I'm going to evaluate needs to be focused on is the Preservation of Personal Data. The Institute for Protection of Personal Data is an institution that is established and exists in environments where access to information is possible with a key, along with technological development and changes. This personal data issue is two-dimensional. The first is private information that belongs to the person, the birth certificate, phone information, personal matters. The second is a matter of preserving and hiding religious freedom, private religious origins, sectarian differences, and access to information, including the cultural environment, private life, health issue. So it's the duty of the state when it establishes the law between its nation and its state -- as is the law of citizenship, to ensure the safety of the citizen, to establish the law, to teach the law -- if the citizen has a lower responsibility to the state -- one of the other responsibilities of the state is that it stays on the protection of personal data. Look, what I'm about to say is a matter I'm surprised to follow very carefully. There are social media accounts that have been opened by accessing personal data to people's sects, to govern perceptions and confuse their belonging. Of course, personal data can be shared in areas such as social media and Twitter, depending on the person's wishes, but what are the intentions of those who want to use these information to access and confuse them? Why should we be careful? The issue of our citizens whose doors have been cross-signed is being heated and heated and brought up. Now, once again, the global barons are reinventing the new strategy, a cult-based, ethnically-based, Islamic world and the theory of chaos by making Muslims fight each other within themselves. So the Jerusalem incident, along with the conflict with non-Muslims of the Islamic world, will conduct the new fitness centers and Fifth Column activities as the lowest cost, through social media and digital technology, and through the strategy of breaking the Muslims together through the matter of tea with the stone of tea. Political parties need to approach these issues, in this sense, above their political agendas and their own stances.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0030par0306	Here, complete it, Mr. Blackstone.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0029par0307	This privacy area, the sharing of personal data, and even if it doesn't have any unofficial or information about it, it is necessary to be careful about the news, the publications, that will confuse the masses by manipulating, altering, altering different information. We, the National Movement Party, will continue our mission to follow these boards in every area, to criticize the negatives we see and encourage the positives. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0031par0311	Thank you, Mr. Blackstone. It now belongs to Izmir MP Hasan Kalyoncu. Here you go, Mr. Kalyoncu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0032par0316	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. For those who died in a speeding train accident in Ankara, I pray for God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. After the merger of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, there are still problems with the establishment of rural services. These problems need to be resolved as soon as possible. The ministry's rural services will be managed by a basin-based system or returned to the organization structure. We find it positive in terms of efficient use and coordination of resources, but it is important that this system be implemented by considering the structures of state waterworks and forest headquarters, which are still run by this ecosystem-based system. In another way, the definition of a basin-based management can lead to a state and so forth, and it will also be awkward in terms of the standard of public administration. Forest Law 6831 contains provisions that protect forest protection, but without discussion in the residency commissions, no regulations should be made to harm forest ecosystems and wildlife without the opinion of universities, NGOs and occupational organisations. For years, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has received a very small supply of forest engineers. In particular, there is no hiring, even though the lack of staff in national parks is a subject to the Court's reports. Not only were forest engineers recruited, but also food engineers, veterinarians, water products graduates, biologists were not given a staff or a recruitment. Many requests have come to you in this regard. We must provide access to graduates who are waiting for the appointment and graduates who are waiting for the appointment. At the same time, the missing interagency dialogue must be developed and co-operated with the NGO, and arrangements must be made in universities. Members of parliament have become the rule of persecution of the General Directorate of the Forest Staff, which entered into force in 2013 and is known as the "Rotation Charter" in public. This situation must be resolved quickly, and the problems that will occur and will occur must be eliminated. In addition, the lack of forest conservation officers interferes with the operation, and the current staff is subject to ongoing investigations because there is not enough work to be followed. Although the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has been granted the right of operational service of technical staff in rural services due to working conditions, the bet is not given to public employees who serve in different institutions and institutions that perform similar tasks. The immediate recovery of this sacrifice is an important expectation for public employees. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry conducts the duties of many bureaucrats who serve as administrative managers of central and rural agencies, and it appears that acting as a power of attorney has become almost general for many ministries and organisations. The wager is that public officials are unable to take advantage of their economic rights while taking full responsibility for their duties. For this reason, public officials who are successful in their professions should be appointed to administrative positions, which are empty or run by power of attorney, as soon as the current administrative staff in all relevant institutions have a test of promotion. Agricultural and Forestry Ministry Agency Law and Ministry services have many legislation describing one of the ministry's most basic tasks as a control and control mission. As you may know, audit duty is at risk, and some institutional workers who serve under the risk conditions are paid under the name "harm compensation." The development of this practice is important for all personnel who run audit services under the Ministry's Agency's law. In addition, the implementation of food control fees, which have been tried to apply to some license-level public officials who have been serving more than five hours a day under food control, should be restructured by the Ministry, as well as applied to all staff with a degree of licensing training, including technicians and technicians serving as supervisors in audit services. Excessive and unconscious drugs and fertilizers in agriculture are pollutants. The measures and controls taken on this matter show inadequacy. Control and measures must be increased. We need to develop a strategy for climate change, which will change our future and talk about it all the time. Within this strategy, the actions of invasive species in the country must be fully established, and future product pattern change scenarios should be made, and strategies should be developed in line with these plans. In these matters, cooperation with universities should be primarily supported. At the same time, our farmer must be aware of these matters. According to Turkish Statistical Agency data, plant production is diminishing in every area. According to the law, one per cent of the illegitimate national client should be separated as agricultural support, while the amount of support is less than 1%. This situation must be corrected immediately, and the support to be used in its place. In this regard, the audit is required to be tightened again. In the sale of agricultural fields, the pre-industrial law must be redistributed. In the tender areas, the validity of the right to pre-employment can be blocked by many complications. The Seed Gen Bank, created for the preservation of genetic heritage, is of great importance. In addition, the newly formed National Water Products Gene Bank in Tripoli is also very important. These studies need to be carefully observed. Studies on native seeds should be encouraged and more researchers should be directed to the subject. The management of water and wetlands and the confusion of authority in this administration, the absence of a national water policy, will cause many problems in the future. In recent years and days, heavy rains will also increase and continue. Climate change also brings meteorological changes. In this area, infrastructure regulations should also be set up as a package of measures to be taken in agricultural areas. Taking precautions before the disaster comes will ensure our country's future. All of these criteria must be considered when dams, water structures and basin planning are being made. In agriculture, it must be fully watered down and watered from wells under control. Fugitive wells should not be allowed, and while these measures are being taken, our farmers should not be victimised. Studies have been conducted to determine the level of pollution of surface waters in our country. These studies should speed up the efforts to improve dirty areas in surface waters. Attempts to create underground artificial dams and water basins must also be accelerated. Fish gates in water structures built on streams must be reorganised and reorganised according to ecological demands of fish spreading in that region. In our country, in particular in some provinces, agricultural land is divided into tiny pieces, which cannot be farmed economically under the name of hobby gardens, and are sold by building wires, fences, walls, and structures. However, it is known that the sale was made in the form of co-op or notary contracts, not with the land managers' channel, but with intense complaints to both the sub-primes and forest managers. As in İzmir, this has been seen especially in districts such as Izmir (Izmir) and Aliaya, Menderes, Buca, Bagaklı, and is seen as a Rant source for landowners. As of now, the co-operatives are now in operation with those in the organisational stage.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0033par0334	Go ahead, Mr. Kalyoncu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0032par0335	This matter must be investigated and resolved immediately. The Water Institute's purpose, however, is to improve water policies and provide co-motivation, but is unable to carry out this task. Its current and functioning activities are already being carried out by the Water Management General Directorate and State Water Affairs. Either this institution must be shut down or returned to its original post. I wish you a good budget, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0034par0339	Thank you, Mr. Kalyoncu. Now, it's time for the man of Adana, Muharrem Varlı. Here you go, Mr Varli. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0035par0344	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're continuing budget negotiations here today, and I've been promised some departments in the Ministry of Agriculture, and I'm going to share my opinion on these issues with you. What I'm trying to say about the forest is that forest areas are our lungs, best protected, especially during the summer season, best preserved against fires and must be maintained by increasing forest areas every day. About the meteorology... Meteorology has made significant progress. They can predict and report the snow a few days ago, how cold the weather will be a few days ago. We congratulate our fellow meteorologists on this, God bless you. Of course, livestock and food... I would like to share with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, as well as with the expectations of our fellow farmers in the region, as well as with the Ministry's officials here. In particular, there has been a significant increase in both fertilizer and fuel, as the dollar has increased recently. This creates the farmer's most expensive inputs, fertilizer and fuel. So in that sense, the government needs to come up with a formula that can bring down fertilizer prices as soon as possible. This way, when the farmer throws up fertilizer and sells its product again, let's be honest, he won't be able to produce a price that can afford the cost he's made, because the fertilizer prices have gone up so high that there's a 60 percent increase that's reached 60 percent. Again, fuel prices have increased by close to 50 per cent. So agricultural products count in the same place. In fact, I told Mr. Secretary at a meeting, and he was right -- I'm telling you -- cotton prices started at $4,600 -- and I'm telling you with the old money -- are now down to 3,000 liras. So the farmer lost $1,600 in 1 kilo of cotton. But gas prices and fertilizer prices have gone up, it hasn't gone down, so it continues to rise with very little decline. Therefore, the government must somehow measure the price of fertilizer and the price of diesel to the extent that the farmer can use and that the farmer will not be harmed. Our farmers have expectations. Again, chemical drugs have increased by about 60 percent. This needs to be fixed somehow in favor of the farmer and provided to the farmer cheaply. The high interest rates are also a very serious burden on both the merchant and the farmer's part. Mr. President is constantly saying, and he's telling the truth, and with a very sincere approach, interest rates should be reduced. Unfortunately, interest rates remain high. It is noted that the government's banks also have high interest rates. So you have to block it somehow and lower interest rates, and it's going to be important for both the farmer and the merchant that the farmer works for. Again, when the farmer, our peasant brother, who can't pay his debts at the Farm Bank and goes to restructure, suddenly finds a very high amount of interest in livestock and agriculture, so normally interest rates are very good, I don't say anything about that, but when he can't pay his debt and goes to restructure, he faces 26 percent, 27 percent interest rates, which is a very high rate. I believe the Minister will be sensitive to this matter. Again, we just talked about cotton. Snow really is an industrial plant, so we have to get our farmer to plant cotton, because when we take advantage of cotton and cotton products -- it's oil, it's raw -- we're blocking about $2 billion in imports. $2 billion is a very important number for Turkey. If we can get the cotton to be planted, the cotton growth in both Çukurova (Kukurova) and Urbana (Ege) has gone up a lot. We need to keep this going by increasing. How do we proceed? One, we need to increase premium support by inflation; two, increasing input costs, so that it doesn't crush our farmer. So again, the cotton has been offered a bonus of $800.80. If we can raise that figure a little bit, if we can figure out a number like $1, over $1, I believe that our farmer will plant cotton, and we'll have the money that Turkey will pay for outside cotton, which is like $2 billion, in the pocket of the Turkish farmer. So let's not just think of it as solid cotton, but if we look at the raw oil that we're getting from the raw, we're doing over $2 billion in imports, which is a very heavy cost for us. Pamuk is also important for the Turkish industry, for the textile industry. So one of the things that we can compete with in the world is the textile fabric industry. If we don't grow its raw material ourselves now, if we keep importing it from the outside, it's going to cost us a lot for our manufacturer and our industrialist. That's why I believe the Minister will be sensitive to this matter. Again, there are problems with corn prices. It started with a figure like $1,100, and now the price of corn is down to 930 liras. This reduced prices a little bit after the TMO (TMO) price statement. However, if the price had been built at an advance price of over a thousand liras, it would not have gone under a thousand liras, and our farmer would not have suffered any harm. I believe you'll take that into consideration and not victimize our farmer. Well, there's another problem with wheat prices for our farmers. So the bread didn't get cheap, the price of wheat is low, even though nothing made with flour, made with wheat, shows that wheat crops will be very, very low in Turkey in the coming years. I mean, we don't grow wheat, cotton, corn, corn in an environment that's affordable, water, earth, climate, when we're already importing a lot of things, so if we import them from outside, it'll bring burden to our country and our nation. So we need to build a system that will plant cotton, plant wheat, plant corn, protect our farmer. Again, our farmers, our peasants, have high expectations of livestock. These days, the media organs are talking about the height of meat prices again, which is true. I mean, these meat prices are sometimes raised, but when the Meat and Fish Foundation comes on the market, they're resuming it. If we can lift the middleman, if we can supply the meat directly from the manufacturer to the consumer, if we can send it to the consumer, believe me, the manufacturer will win and the consumer will win. I mean, the livestock industry is a really hard-core industry in our country. The bait is very expensive, and when the animal is bought and sold, if the farmer doesn't make money from it, he withdraws from the livestock industry; and when he withdraws from the livestock industry, it's impossible to turn the farmer back into an animal industry. Thus, it is impossible to find a solution in Turkey with imported meat. If we have to make an import, as I always say, we have to import to increase the number of heifers. The more we multiply the female heifers, the more we're going to get from these heifers, the more we're going to meet the need for animal meat in Turkey -- especially for cattle. So, if we have to import an import, we have to import a hen, and I believe the Minister will be sensitive about it. Now, of course, the people who produce farmers are really the people who contribute the most to the country's economy in this country. So, if exports are being made today, our farmer, the farmer who produces the ripe tomatoes, the cheeses, the olives, the warm bread that comes to our table. For that, we must protect our farmer as best we can. Whatever needs to be done about this, come together, let's bring our farmer to the environment where he can make more and more and make more and protect them. If we can't keep them alive, if we take them out of production, believe me, our country will lose a lot.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0036par0357	Complete, Mr Varli. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0035par0359	Thank you, Mr. President. I share them with you, with sincere feelings, as a man who sees them as farmers and lives in the business. I believe the Minister was sincere about it, and he mentioned it at a meeting earlier. It is especially important that farmers' debts at the Agriculture Bank be postponed. An instalment of farm loans and farm loans... that's what our farmers expect. So we can find resources in a lot of places, and we have to find this resource for our farmers who feed and feed Turkey, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0036par0362	Thank you, Mr Varli. The third round of the nationalist movement group is complete. I will now promise Mr. Servet Ünsal, who has entered the system and asked for a word, for three minutes at his place. He came in here and gave me a direct request, said he came from the crash site, where he and the committee conducted inspections. Now, to inform the General Assembly, I give him my word on his location for three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Unisal.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0037par0368	Dear President, dear friends of the MP, I'm Dr. Servet Ünsal, Ankara MP. The incident took place today in Yenimahalle. The accident occurred at Ankara Marchandiz Station around 6.30 a.m. when the speed train headed for Konya was nose-to-nose with the guide train. I went to the crime scene early in the morning because it was so close to me. The scene was a disaster. After leaving Ankara, the 206-speed train -- there is no station at that time -- a guide on the way to the fast train collided nose to nose. Friends, in the direction of the roller coaster, at that time, let's say it's an oversight or a crime, we're going to evaluate it all in the next few days, but it's a very serious event. After the crash on the speeding train on the road, at the scene, two large cars had never been entered under it. At that time, he was at the scene with nine dead body bags, and I saw him, and he was moved to more than 50 wounded hospitals. As a physician, I'm about to make my visits to the hospital. Friends, of course, it's a bad thing, but it also occurred to me that in previous years, there was such an incident in Pamukova, and then there was another train accident in Chorus five months ago, and we lost dozens of people today in Ankara. Friends, it's a truly reliable transportation system in the area of railway transport; that's what should happen, but I'd like to say that by now, especially as a member of parliament who has experienced these accidents frequently, this should now be questioned and investigated. Friends, there has also been a commission or a motion for research on Chorus.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0038par0375	Let's give it another minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0037par0376	I don't know if it's necessary for my fellow congressmen to die in order to establish the commission, but why don't some commissions be set up and the House is not asked to investigate it. As a physician, as a doctor, I am truly sorry. I suggest to my fellow lawmakers in power and to my fellow lawmakers at other parties that if I don't have a commission immediately, these train accidents are no longer an accident, they're now a murder. Guys, don't take my words for granted in that sense. As a mind, as a physician, as a brother, I suggest we set up this commission as soon as possible, look into these train accidents, because the most appropriate transportation system in the world is causing us so many accidents? Is there any negligence here? We don't want the AKP's power to shut this down. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's find a solution as soon as possible, because the prestige of our country is being undermined. My dear President and my dear congressman friends, I thank you for listening to me, but I believe you will show some sensitivity. I'm thinking we should set up a commission in the next few days and look into it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit01spe0039par0381	Thank you, Mr. Unisal. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0039par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019 and the Central Management Act of 2017. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Commission? He's in position. There will now be talks on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. The first statement is from Metin Ergun. Here you go, Mr. Ergun. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0040par0056	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my condolences to our citizens who died in today's train crash. I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. Since we don't have a chance to change the way we talk about the budget here, I'd like to make a general statement of our views on the areas that the relevant ministry is interested in. Our report card as Turkey on both the environment and urbanism of the Ministry, which we discussed on its budget, is very weak. We contaminated, corrupted, and almost destroyed the natural environment. In Anatolia, natural life has been destroyed, and many species that have created the Anatolian fauna and the fluorine have either been exhausted or are about to be exhausted. Many species of birds are extinct, now invisible, even insects are extinct. You know, even the variety of bees in our country is gone. According to studies, 90 percent of the bees in our country's natural habitat have been destroyed. Consider the environmental catastrophes that would have caused them. Congressmans, I've already stated from this bench that our civilization and culture are really a conscious civilization about the environment. How did our faith, our traditional culture, when we were preaching environmental cleanness, clean water, air freshening, animal and tree love, demand that various criminal sanctions be imposed on those who hurt the environment, and what changed? How quickly we've evolved from an understanding that avoids hurting an ant to an understanding that is insensitive to the extinction of species, it's not clear. Our record of urbanism, in the name of the ministry, is not good, especially the record of the EC PARTY is very bad. Let's be very clear, we've unidentified all our cities. We have created cities without a soul, soulless, without a soul, without an identity, without a philosophy, without a mind to pass by or walk through them, as if there were no architects living in that city, without any aesthetics, without concrete, without a soul, without an identity. The ancients are like the sharp sword of time. There is a saying, "When time is used well, it is used in favor, and if it is used badly, there are consequences against it. " Unfortunately, time has not been used well for our cities, and with the environment, we've made them unidentified, unsubstantiated. City and urbanization is culture and civilization. The city is like the exhibition and exhibition hall of the understanding of civilization, of the people who actually live in it, and of the civilization that dominates it. Great civilizations show themselves with their cities. We need to know that cities aren't just physical places where people live together with no aesthetic value or property. The city, as it built the city with human culture, with its taste, with its philosophy, with its artistic structures, with its way of life, with its street and so forth, socializes with peaceful parks, so culture and so forth. That's what happened to us in the past, in Seljuklu, Anatolian tribes and Ottoman cities. The two main cities of Anatolia, each of which was a work of fine art and a profound philosophy, have served as a cradle for the Turkish Islamic civilization, the Great Mosque of Fine Minareli, the Divrikic Mosque, the Karatay Medresesi, the Selimiye, Süleymaniye, the Bursa Great Mosque, the Ahlat Selçulu Cemetery. So the cities that are considered the cradle of civilization are the places that contribute to social development and economic development as a result. Therefore, those who govern our cities must have a cultural policy. So, is it like this today? Which of the cities that we run have these qualities? With their freckle domes, their bedestens, their markets, their taverns, their baths, their fountains, and their ties, which we today call the park, our cities and our cities were the exhibition centers of Turkish Islamic civilization. Erzurum, Sivas, Tokat, Amasya, Konya, Iznik, Bursa, Manisa, Izmir, Edirne, and, of course, Istanbul were published with a fine work of art, which reflected Turkish Islamic philosophy. Today, we have embroidered cities like Skopje, Thessaloniki, Baghdad, Aleppo for hundreds of years, and we have made each of them a city that literally reflects the meaning of the word. And We made in them the inheritance which We had inherited with joy and zeal, and We gave each of them our own soul. We built Istanbul, which we conquered as the capital of an empire, so in our own cultural understanding that we made it the capital of civilization, pleasure, and aesthetic rather than the center of a state. And today? How's Istanbul today? In the years that followed, we couldn't build buildings like the language and the History-Geography building, the Ankara Turkish January building, the buildings that are being used as the Gazi University building today. I will not speak of Solomoniye, Selimija, or the Great Mosque; we have lost the pleasure of the schools, mosques, and madrases in the last year of the Ottoman Empire. Let's not kid ourselves. From a geography whose cities are so unidentified, the light of civilization does not rise. As we've stated, civilization and urbanization are related. This is the same in both Islamic geography and culture and Western culture. What I want to say is that civilization and the city are both the things that cause each other to exist and feed each other. So it's naive to expect civilization to rise from unidentified, soulless cities. It's the city that raises the poet. If you have a city in exchange for the full meaning of the word "site" and "madine", you will grow up to be a poet, or rather a poet. Cities inspire poets; Bursa, Edirne, and Istanbul were such cities. As such, Istanbul was a city long enough to make Nedime say, "This city is a city of Bîk-misli u bah" (a sigine is a place of sacrifice). Is it like this today? Again, in our classical literature, which first began with us among the Islamic nations, there is a species called the Shrediz, which reflects the beauty of a city and its inhabitants. I mean, our cities were once so beautiful, so lovely, that they inspired poets so much that they made a species born in literature. And now? Do we have any other cities left to write the work of Tanpınar (Tanpınar)? Are there still any cities left to this day, which have written the Messiah, and the Zath, and John the Stoned One, and many other cities that are made of fine art? Our cities have become soulless cities, without pleasure, without art, without culture. Our cities have been destroyed by politicians chasing coupons and contractors who have no sanctity but profit. The architect's mentality, which saw architecture as just fitting a structure in a certain square metre, also killed our cities. There are no more cities of Anatolia to write to Nedim, nor Ankara, nor Tanpınar, nor five cities to write to Yakub Gadri, to write to them.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0041par0069	Go ahead, Mr. Ergun.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0040par0070	However, our problems are very grave about the second part of the ministry, and about the environment. We especially desecrate our waters, destroy them. Water sources are estimated to be the most important strategic assets in the future. Unfortunately, Turkey consumes and destroys water resources quickly. Look, 80 percent of our surface waters are contaminated today. According to calculations, our country will be a water-poor country starting in 2030. We are rapidly destroying our land, our forests, our meadows, and our farmland. That's why the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism needs to be transformed into a strong and political-sensitive institution. This is the only way we can deliver these sacred relics to future generations. As I end my speech, I wish that the upcoming local elections would lead to a radical change of mentality in these issues, wishing that the budget of 2019 would be good for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0042par0074	Thank you, Mr. Ergun. Now it's time for Ankara MP Shenol Bal. Here you go, Mr. Honey. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0043par0079	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group regarding the budgets of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate and the Forest General Directorate in 2019. On this occasion, I salute you all. Yes, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the fast train crash in Ankara today, their condolences to their grieving families, and urgent healings to our wounded. Dear lawmakers are the ones responsible for healthy urbanization and safe construction in the first degree. The government, property building group and building class, which have ruled the country for 16 years, rejects the life and property safety of our citizens, as it has denied the engineering, architecture and urban planning professions -- which link administrative and technical issues to the statement of the owner. Fugitive construction today is not the choice of the poor as it used to be, but rather the method of subsidiaries seeking Rant. The main culprit of this situation is the AKP's government, which has been implementing urbanism and urbanisation policies that have not respected the people, the environment, for 16 years, has seen the regulatory and constraints brought in by planning and zoning legislation as an obstacle to economic development. Yes, you hastened and announced zoning peace to collect votes before the general election and fill empty boxes. Our fellow citizens were very pleased with the subject, but when they began to apply, the complaints were raised. For those who applied or applied, the deed and cadastro administrations would have to provide free support so that they would not be given a false statement on gross square meter or floor account. Again, there should have been an opportunity to pay off those whose financial situation was insufficient. If those who have already submitted their application still have any false statements, they should be compensated with updates or additional payments. The old buildings in the village area, when they were being evaluated, had to be kept minimum wage. A new building and a very old building shouldn't have paid the same price. In order to apply for a deed in the shares, each person must be given a separate guardianship and signature. However, this application makes it impossible to accept the deed. The arrangements needed to be made. With the building document, the gross scale ratios should not have been paid or paid collectively to those who have changed, but they haven't been paid. Yes, in an environment where conditions of life are difficult day by day, if the necessary arrangements are not made, the citizen will have what he has. I'd like to give you an example of the Mamakians who met the dozers while they were waiting for zoning peace in Ankara. They complain that they've been shown far away and that the city's men have closed their homes for 10,000. Hilly, Peace, Friends Neighborhoods are a victim. Most of them were called by the municipality, but the citizens here pay their taxes, even though they paid thousands of lira and applied for zoning peace, they complained for months that they would not be able to get answers. As for the view of the government's treasures, we can't prevent invasions of the treasured property, let's sell them, and that's the right and rational solution. Is it? Gentlemen, make effective and deterrent arrangements to prevent invasions and apply them meticulously. Treasure land is not the source to save the country's economy by selling to foreigners, allies. You're violating the rights of generations to come, like heirs. Now to our forests... our Minister of Agriculture and Forestry is here. In the 2000s, the forest service had 44 branches, 179 forest nurserys. During your reign, 16 plant managers and 67 nursery chiefs were shut down. You say we're world leaders in the fight against erosion, but nobody's talking about the land we lost, the agriculture, the mera fields. You say you've planted 4 billion trees in the last 15 years. It's the same as five years ago, Mr. President, 4-4.5 billion trees were planted. Where did you plant these saplings? I'm doing the square meter, and if you're right, the country must be full of saplings and forests. According to our Forest General Directorate's website, there are 22 million hectares of forest in Turkey, and you have planted so-called 4 billion trees in 15 years, raising our forest existence to 23 million hectares. So, according to your official statement, you must have increased by 4 to 5 percent, but in this case, it's down to about 80 saplings per acre. Did you also count the seeds you sent in the mail to show our citizens how environmentalist you are? If you've planted these saplings in summer homes and winter gardens that people can't see, we may have missed them. And I have to ask, where do you get these saplings? You import saplings, too?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0044par0088	They import, they import.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0043par0089	That's all we need, so if there's any more saplings, I'm just saying good luck. Yes, my friends who love the forest, who love nature, we know your love of the forest and your respect for the trade. You built an illegal palace for the first-degree site, the Ataturk Forest Farm, by piercing the law and the Constitution, by destroying 10,000 trees. You destroyed Ankara's lungs, where Mustafa Kemal Ataturk himself performed the miracle and inherited it for future generations. Was there no other place in Ankara to build an illegal palace? You're gonna cut down 10,000 trees, destroy 100 years of history, and then you're gonna show off that I planted saplings in the palace door. Down with the weather, down with your palaces. You can't cover up your palace as a fugitive by calling it "Culliah" or something. You got up for the runaway palace, you got 280 trucks of lime, gurgles and synthes from Germany. The locals and the nationals!) You decorated the halls of the palace with imported trees, but those trees didn't hold, they didn't accept land; you tried a few times, you threw people's money away. The money spent on the furniture and trees and marbles of the illegal palace was reported to be $70 million. It was not enough, but Marmaris made a summer palace in Okluk Bay. For him, it was written that about 40,000 shallows and pine trees had been cut down. Of course, it's not possible to see that in the media. We have heard that you are also looking to make a nation's garden for the Validebag Korsu, in Istanbul.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0045par0093	Well, that's nice.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0043par0094	Yeah, well, I hope you're proud of your work by cementing it, too.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0045par0095	We'll brag.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0043par0096	A tree doesn't grow easily, precious lawmakers, it takes many years. How do you do it? Mustafa Kemal Ataturk had moved the mansion on the tracks in Yalova to avoid cutting the branches of a linguine tree. It could have been cut down here, the mansion could've been destroyed, but the message that was meant to be delivered here was important to anyone who understood, of course. We received the message, we raised our sons in the path of the leader who didn't put an axe in the branch of a synth tree, the valued lawmakers. I wish this budget would be a blessing, but I don't think this budget has been discussed enough. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0046par0100	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0047par0101	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0046par0102	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0047par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to make a few things clear for the record. First of all, in the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, the presidential legislature is a local and national work building, built by the framework of the presidential office, under all legal requirements, within the framework of environmental legislation, and registered in the name of the nation. The public's attempts to discredit our beloved nation, the people's home, from our heads to all the nations whose doors are open to all our nations. At this point, this Ashliye, made in accordance with the law and the entire constitutional order, will continue to serve our beloved nation in order to carry out the work of both our country and our nation's reputation and the office of the presidency. I'd like to present it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0048par0106	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. It is now up to Antalya MP Hasan Subaş. Here you go, Mr. Subas. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0049par0111	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I wish God's mercy and immediate healing to our wounded citizens, and my condolences to their families and to our nation because of the train accident in Ankara. I have made a commitment to discuss the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the Justice Department budget proposal. We've been watching budget talks, and the speakers from the ruling party, and Mr. Secretary of State, go on. They've praised and defended the budget draft, saying, "Don't stop." I want to say here that I wish Turkey's economic picture, the crisis period, the collapse in justice, and the crisis could have been prepared, but I think this opportunity has been missed, and we are going to keep going. The position of the government will continue to create serious problems in Turkey. They really have to defend the presidential government system, now that we're in business. In his words, Mr. Vice President, this system is adopted to serve more dynamicly, faster. When he says, "There's no system in the center that works fast, where the powers are collected by one hand, there's no system that does fast service. By doing so, the world has quickly established services by sharing authority in decentralised bureaucratic environments, local administrations, and the world has discovered it for a hundred years, but in Turkey, unfortunately, all the powers are on the world's agenda -- contrary to what our Vice President said -- the system has started to fail in justice, national education, health, tourism, agriculture, and economic collapses. I wish this opportunity hadn't been missed and a crisis budget could've been prepared, so if a social rehabilitation project could've been a social government project, a total savings project, the crisis could've been done in comparison to that budget. As far as I'm concerned, this opportunity has been missed. When we look at the budget, we see that our 125 universities have been earmarked for 30 billion. That's what Harvard University's budget is all about when we get 30 billion to 125 universities. And then we say, "Why aren't our universities in the first 500? And most importantly, when freedoms and autonomy are taken away from him, our universities are incapable of ideas and can't be creative. Once again, when we look at the budget, it is earmarked for 117 billion interest next year. Now, those who apply to the bank today are only at 40 percent of the time able to find credit, if they can find it. The tradesman and farmer are no longer able to provide loans. The sea is finished. We recently mentioned that the number of executive files in Turkey, according to UYAP data, was 8 million, 613,000 in 2008 and 19 million 901 in 2018. In 2002, 1.6 million people owe credit cards, while 32 million people owe credit cards in 2018. In 2002, 926 000 people were paid under the hunger limit, while in 2018, they reached 16,500,000 people, while the poverty limit was 18 million people in 2002 and 22 million in 2018. These are indicators of an economic crisis. There's no point in hiding it, there's no point in making it look like it doesn't exist, there's no point in saying we're getting up, we're getting up, we're getting up, we're getting up, there's no point in saying it. These should be considered healthy. I wish there was a social restoration in this budget. If those living in retirement could be transformed into a restoration project, a savings project, a savings budget, under the poverty line, under the poverty line, and 32 million debtors. But when we look at the president in charge of the government system, our wastefulness in everything is primarily the government's head, saying that there is no savings, that there is no savings from dignity. I don't want to mention much about the raise to its own price, but in the meantime, I wish that this budget had moved back into production, that there would have been significant shares in the development of agriculture and animalism, because we left Anatolian territory poor, and we left agriculture, agriculture, people in the agriculture sector, almost at the point of migration to the city and leaving their territory. Now, while our livestock citizens were waiting in line in meat combinations, in slaughterhouses, they recently came to the Foreign Commission for a protocol to import 5,000 tonnes of meat from Serbia, with the opposition of our lawmakers, it passed through the Commission. I see this as a serious crisis, because really, our animal-making, feed-making people are in a tough spot, especially with the bait prices. Especially in wintertimes, we've only got feeders waiting in line in combinings to be able to take a nap, pay off the debt, but another 5,000 tons of imports will bend the back of this sector. We said these are economic crisis indicators; we said unplanned, unscheduled, but the crisis in justice is above all, it's deeper. I just want to give you a number, a statistic. In 2006, there were 2,933,000 people who had been investigated as suspects, while in 2017 they reached 11,985 thousand people. So 12 million people are being investigated as suspects. How desperate this is. Instead of being blindfolded, we can probably say that our open-eyed justice is the work of our justice and that most of the 12 million people are the opposition. And I'd like to give you a dramatic statistic in the number of prisoners. In 2002, the number of convicts reached 30,637 people in 2018, reaching 202,000 people, so the increase is 560 percent. Prison personnel have risen from 25,000 to 60,000, and by 2023, the plan for the construction of 228 new prisons has been made. Turkey's development, our development, our growth. When you say, "What direction did you grow in?" It is embarrassing to fall to the 101st place in 2018, and to the rear of even countries like Kenya, Uganda, when I was ranked 59, and I didn't even want to give it to you in 2014. We've never been able to talk about the independence, the neutrality of the judiciary. Now that the judge has no collateral, judges and prosecutors have been thrown around and have dominated our political law, our justice, I'm afraid. The past trial in Yassıa has remained in history. The disaster of Ergenekon investigations in the past years, the arrests should not be far from the memory. Now that the investigations have been inconsistencies, unjust trials and investigations, justice has become completely insurmountable. So much so that we can no longer find anything to say to our author, illustrator, and the people who have struggled on this subject for years, and the last day after the investigation into names such as Necati True, Emin Desertasaşan, after the investigation has been launched, I feel like a joke. I think democracy is what we need most in Turkey. Human rights and democracy can shape us where the law is thrown so far, but the political institution, the institutions of justice, the institutions of justice that have strayed from the concept of human rights, unfortunately, is living in the deadlocks of our society; we're shaken. In the 70th year of the signing of the Universal Bill of Rights, just as human rights violations happened in our country at all times, our president himself is free to speak to a prosecutor, judicial decisions, human rights decisions. I don't know you. I don't know you. Know who you are. Know who you are. When he utters these words, think of the state of that judgment, the judge, or the prosecutor, he will have no chance of acting independently. Neither the political institution nor the judicial institution of which our fellow citizens consider to be a sanctuary has said this; it is the shame of our political institution and the judiciary, it shows our level of human rights, but finally, after that decision was made in 2014, similar decisions began to emerge in the Turkish judiciary, and finally the other day, a court decision... Again, I'm talking about the 70th year.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0050par0129	Go ahead and complete it, Mr. Subi.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0049par0130	He has made a judgment decision and considered it a place of worship.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0051par0131	The government doesn't apply, sir, just so you know.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0049par0132	As Mr. Aselalioğlu said, the alternative of the mosque is of course not, but this is my place of worship. This is the place of worship for people who call it. I didn't know this was the support of a first public servant in Turkey, when I helped build the land during my mayoral term, by laying the foundation of the first camisole in the 1990s, by designing it. A few years ago, when the Alevis, the Aleki people, called me and rewarded me with a plaque, I said, "What is this?," they said, "We first saw from you the support of the public servant in Turkey -- Anthalya-da -- to be built; this is his plaque." I was happy with that, but also ashamed. I think our lag on human rights in Turkey is the most important issue of justice and law today. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0052par0136	Thank you, Mr. Subas. Now it's time for Antalya MP Feridun Bahshi. Here you are, Mr. Bahshi. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0053par0141	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish mercy to our citizens who died in an accident, my condolences to their relatives, and health to the wounded. On the budgets of the Institute for Punishment and Execution and the Association for Businesses of Prisons, the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey and the Protection of Personal Data, I have made a commitment to convey their opinion and opinions. I salute the great Turkish nation and our Veterans Assembly. In the 1970s, I was surprised and surprised by the masterful work of national emotions in the stories and novels of the great Turkish literatureist Genghis Aytmatov, Lenin Prized in Literature. It was the great master's birthday yesterday. I remember him with respect and longing, God rest his soul. Dear lawmakers, with the rule of law completely out of control over the past 16 years, there have been problems in prisons. I think that if 16 years -- almost a generation -- were especially important to education, this decay would not be happening. If you'd like, I'd like to compare the number of prisoners and convicts 16 years ago and the number of increases that we've seen so far. In 2002, the prisoner was 30,637, convicted 28.550, totalling 59,187. In 2008, prisoner 43,157, convicted 57,947, total number 101. In six years, the number of prisoners and prisoners has nearly doubled. For the year 2018, let's hear from Mr. Abdulhamit Gül. In his statement on March 30, 2018, Mr. Gul announced that there were 189,000 judicial, about 50,000 terrorist criminals, a total of 240 thousand prisoners and convicts. In 449 jails capable of 211,274 beds, the figures of June 2018 are 194,113, 48,924, and a total of 243,037, and 35,150 people do not even have a bed in prisons. Now they're going to say, sir, the terrorist organization, the coup attempt, or whatever..... at least let's not take advantage of that excuse, sir. The number of prisoners, prisoners you received in 59,000 years has increased to 250,000 in 16 years, whatever kind of illegal policy has been followed. In fact, some parties bring up legal proposals, including pardons or a reduced sentence, due to this condensation in prisons. The most prison construction during the Republic period was during the AK PARTY administrations, and these constructions continue rapidly. In fact, some AK PARTI nationals have made an effort to convert prison construction into political Ranta, saying that prison construction is an investment in their own cities. Another issue is the demands of the prison and detention staff, who have been expelled by thousands of people in recent years on the grounds that the rest of them have been working hard and impossible. As a man who's been head of the Justice Commission for years, let me speak from this stand once again about these years of problems that have been unresolved and unresolved. These demands are that the additional indicators of the warden be raised to 3,600, to 3,000 of the guards of the execution, to the first degree of the heads of the execution guard, to the third degree, to the third degree of the officers of the execution guard, to be removed from the general administration class of employees in general management services, to all personnel distributed from their homes; to be subjected to all the profits from their business homes; to be granted their weapons licenses while they are in office due to their safety; to be exempted from retirement and tax. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, time is short, it's a lot of work. In Article 29 of Law number 5275, institutional physicians who do not have a vocational and physical health and those who have a profession can be employed in workshops and workplaces for a fee set to the extent of the institution's resources. Today, prison housing is operated in many different businesses from agriculture and animalism to furniture, textile fire tubes production; its budget is nearly 1.1 billion dollars a year from selling goods and services; its director to social worker; its teacher to an execution guard; its 385 fines and execution institution operates as a major economic structure, with nearly 57,000 employees and 258 different businesses. Dear MPs, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights signed by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948 was approved by Turkey on 6 April 1949. The statement states that the dignity of all members of the human family and the recognition of their equal and inadmissible rights are the basis of freedom, justice and world peace, and that human rights are a fundamental obligation to be protected by a legal regime so that they do not have to rebel as a last resort against oppression and oppression. The 1st article of the declaration states that all people are born equal in freedom, dignity and rights. All are equal in 16 years of ruling practices in Turkey, but those who voted for the EC PARTY have become evener. The assessments, such as myself, and those who voted for me, have taken the lead. The politics that led to the separation of the Turkish community were followed. Article 2 of the declaration is parallel to the 10th article of our Constitution: "Everyone, race, color, gender, language, religion, political or any other aky, national or alcoholic origins, wealth, birthing or other freedoms can benefit from the unique rights and all freedoms of the declaration. " The 17th article is that no one can be deprived of property and property arbitraryly. By decree, he forbids permission without a verdict. The Declaration of Islam, number 1856, also forbids permission. It is not possible, of course, to mention human rights in a country where people are seized without judgment, abuses, rapes, women's violence, miners, workers, work killings at workplaces every day due to lack of supervision, a country that grows more caring every day. There are violations in every area. Freedom of thought and expression, freedom of person and security, fair trial, prisons, meetings and demonstration walks, secularism and religious freedoms are being violated. Peace has its price, we know, but they're capable of raising it too much and making it unbearable. Don't push society so hard. You can't improve human rights by building roads, building bridges, tunnels. By strengthening democracy, by implementing the rule of law, judicial independence, by offering equal rights to people in all areas, you can make progress in this field. I salute the great Turkish nation and our Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0054par0153	Thank you, Mr. Bahshi. Now it's time for the confederate, Fahrettin Yoshış. Here you go, Mr. Hill. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0055par0158	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my hand in the train accident in Ankara today, I wish God's mercy to our citizens whom we have sent to Hakk, and to our wounded with urgent healing. And I hope we don't suffer like this again. Dear lawmakers, while our country is self-sufficient in agriculture and livestock and has an important share in exporting, unfortunately it has become dependent on the outside today. Wrong agricultural and animalism policies during the 16-year period of AKP rule have turned our farmers against the ground. Instead of domestic production, the government chose unlimited imports; it did not protect the local manufacturer, farmers, livestock. Finally, you know, with the sale of sugar factories, sugar beets have been undermined. When we assessed Turkish agriculture and animalism in terms of our national income, we found that everything was ignored during this period of government in terms of sociological, psychological and human health. While our country produced 70 billion dollars in agriculture in 2010, it dropped to 53 billion dollars in 2017. In agriculture, employment fell to 5.6 million people by the end of 2017. In 2017, there were 15 per cent reductions in plantable farmland. This year, in 2018, this rate will be increased even further, so the fields will be much lower. In the year 2019, there will be record increases as well as production shortages. With each passing year, the number of farmers is dwindling, the migration from villages to cities is concentrated. In 2018, agriculture was envisioned for $14.8 billion, and in 2017 it was only $12.8 billion. The year 2017 and 2018 are 68 billion euros, which must be given to farmers in illegal domestic revenues. So in two years, the government owes the Turkish farmer 40 billion, didn't give him the right, didn't give him 1 percent of the illegal national estate, ignored the law. This year, because of rising inputs, farmers will either reduce their crop field or plant it without fertilizer or not at all. So we say this year will be a nightmare year for Turkey, for the Turkish farmer, for those who live on livestock. So this year, we call it the year 2019. We're having a complete freak on base price apps. In the ground price apps, the manufacturers of dozens of products were devastated from nuts to pancara, from wheat to cotton. At least 90 percent of our manufacturers had to take their property out of their hands at lower prices. In Turkey, the bottom price, the hill price, is always applied at the highest price, so the base price is supposed to be the lowest price, and so the farmer has to give his products to the merchant at lower than the base price. After the government declares a base price, it pulls aside, throws its farmer into the merchant's lap, thus stealing the labor of the farmers. After analyzing the trade markets and prices of the traders, unfortunately, the farmer is once again deceived, and the trader is renegotiated with the farmer after the stock market. He gets more discounted from the desperate farmer, but the trading stock markets don't intervene, the government doesn't intervene, he's in the middle of a robbery. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, is our farming better than our animalism? Since 2010, Turkey has started importing live animals and carcass meat since 2017, so before power, there was meat in this country, there was milk, there was everything. Calf support isn't being paid, food supplies aren't being paid. 15,000 animals are now waiting for slaughter in Iconia, and Turkey has 250,000 of them. Can you imagine, the animal manufacturers say that the calf grew in our hand. We need to cut this calf off. Winter is coming, we have to get it out of our hands. But our government, our Minister of Agriculture, says: "Yes, but the warehouses are full of meat." What are we going to do? But the same government tries to buy 5 million tons more meat from Serbia. So now there's 250,000 animal slaughters waiting. What happens if it doesn't? These farmers will be in trouble with execution and agricultural loans, with the merchant. So, for God's sake, whose side are you on? I don't mean the ones who make milk at all. Anyway, the price of milk is set. He hasn't been paid for three or four months, milkmaker. You import milk from the United States, you still import meat, just like you import wheat, we have already made a deal. You make excuses as well. So when are you going to take care of the Turkish farmer, the Turkish producer? There's an interesting case. He's messing with the farmers, our government. So I'm telling you: Fertilizer inputs are up 115 percent, agricultural loan co-operatives are publishing a statement, saying to farmers: "Hurry up, take advantage of our stocks quickly, we'll give you 15 percent off." The same merchant logic. For God's sake, if the agricultural loan co-op is going to give the farmer fertilizer at 15 percent off, he's going to gain an early shield, limited to our stocks. Is that logic possible? You're trying to get people to agree to 15 percent of the fertilizer prices that you get a 120 percent raise, which you can't afford, and you're saying: "We make agricultural policy, we're good with farmers." Our farmers and feeders are in debt. On the one hand, banks, on the other hand, debt to agricultural loan co-ops, electricity debts, tractors are mortgaged, farms are mortgaged. Now, because of the water that he used from the wells of about 4,000 farmers in Konya alone, unfortunately he is now facing execution by electricity management. But our government doesn't have a problem with working farmers, cattlemen, but it has another problem. Look, these companies that produce electricity, or rather privatize our electricity, these companies that you sell, I got information yesterday -- I wish you could verify it, if it were wrong -- they said to me, "Why shouldn't electricity distributors owe the state 3.6 billion dollars now, not to pay the government, they don't pay the government, they don't pay the government, they don't pay it, they don't pay them, they don't pay them. I said, "Why shouldn't the government make a sound?" I said, why shouldn't they? Why is it that my government doesn't touch these companies when the same distributor companies collapse into the farmer's community, the citizen's community? Sir, they're contractors of the palace, they call it Genghis Holdings and all that. And if that's true, shame on you, if that's a mismanagement, then I'll correct that mistake from here, and I'm sorry. You made the villagers a big city, you said: "You'll be a city." You cheated so much, sir, that 30 major cities, 16,220 villages and towns became urban, and now we're neighborhoods. I'm a country boy too, I swear I went to my village after I became a neighborhood. Uh, the first time I saw garbage cans in my village, I saw big dumpsters, but I saw that it didn't wake up in my village for a week, and the city didn't come for a week. I said to the villagers, what did the villagers bring you? They brought nothing but cargo, and they brought these trash cans, God bless them. From now on, after 2019, we will pay for electric water money, as did Ahmet Agha, who lives in the villa, as well as electricity, water, sir's house, road, sir, asphalt money. O my brother! fair is the interpretation of the land; all the means of it have come to you; nay, all the burdens of it have come to you, and only a trash can has come to you from the city. For him, you dear friends, the village has lost its corporate personality, and the revenues of the village administration, and the goods, and the workers, have lost their hands. The peasant always lost. You've always fooled the peasant, you've always cheated. Right now, our villages are miserable. Agriculture and livestock are over. He's on the move. Everyone runs away in agriculture. But we have a Minister of Agriculture, God bless him; this brother of ours -- God forbid, God forbid -- has taken care of Turkey, he finds land for us in Sudan. Mr. Minister, what do you do when you don't plant one third of the farmland in Turkey? Apparently, he's got a thing for the former Minister. We had a Mehdi Eker Minister, you know, who imported 250 million dollars worth of meat from France. The French loved our Minister, Aman, they said, "Let's give him a French engagement." They gave him a knight's badge, God willing. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Now, Mr. Pakdemirli, I promise you an engagement from Sudan, my brother, good luck now.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0056par0172	That was before that, that was before the Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0055par0173	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0056par0174	Sure.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0055par0175	He spoke, he said. I'll bring him from Sudan. Farmers, bring it, and let us sow it in Sudan. Dear MPs, now, Mr. Secretary is new and new. I'm a man who's been working with the Minister's father, and I cherish my undersecretary -- when I'm in office, when I'm Minister -- but I'm very sad. I'm sorry that they're giving him false information, misinformation. It is in the budget, as he said, that the Doganci Dam in Bursa was poured out in its own time, and given in its own time. What else? There are other mistakes. Now, I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry: I gave you three questions on August 14, 2018, August 26, 2018, August 28, 2018, why don't you answer?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0057par0178	It was too hard.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0055par0179	I mean, why aren't you answering? Let me ask you this... I mean, I've been a civil servant for 40 years, and I always say that, and I know how the government works. I didn't even get my speed, I filed a petition, official petition, correspondence. When? I gave it to him in the 10th month, and I said, "You have a report on the waterworks of Lake Beyşehir in 2014, the pollution report, please give it to me. You will still give it to me." Minister, I know your business is very difficult. The former Minister said that we were short-staffed. In 2017, in the budget talks. I guess because you're shorthanded, you can't find a man to answer people's letters. But if you're not cheating on people, I'll change my name. Remember when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would be more prestigious in the new era, its MPs would have more say, its reputation would be increased; how would you not respond, how would you not respond? What order is this, what order? The Republic of Fear, called the Republic of Fear.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0058par0182	Here you go, Mr. Gosh, finish your words.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0055par0183	Because the minister came to Kolya, and said, "I will talk to the farmers." He said, "The farmers object to it, and the farmers ask questions, and the negotiations, and the shouting. They immediately told the media, "Don't let the citizens hear it. These ministers, these MPs, our members of power, holy men, don't let anyone hear the protests about them, there'll be hell to pay. I'm protesting here, you're gonna answer these articles, and if you don't, you're gonna quit. If you can't run the state, if you can't run the state, I'll say it 50 times, because you can't run the state, because you're competitive, you're incompetent. Oh, brother, answer them, so I don't tell you that every time I talk, for God's sake! Now, the villagers are waiting for you, the villagers are waiting for you. Look, before March 31st... do you know why he's waiting, why he's waiting? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0059par0187	Put him through, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0055par0189	They say that our villagers say: "Yahu, before the June 24th elections, Turkey will fly away, Turkey will fly away, the presidential system will come, everything will be wonderful. The villagers are waiting for you, workers, pensioners all together on March 31st." Look, the villagers say: "Please, let him come to us twice, he who deceives us, and he who cheats in the local authorities, and he who cheats in the elections; in six months, he and I were going to fly, we were devastated as a nation in six months." Everything's sunk. Look, the villagers are saying: "We don't know where we're going to spend the money, especially our peasants and farmers are so happy that they're looking forward to you, waiting for the parties to bring in the new system." Come, we miss you, your bride, your plenty, your mercy, you have brought us, you have blessed us, you have forgiven us, come, let us embrace you, and let us kiss you in your eyes. Hurry up, hurry up! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The farmer yearns for you, and yearns for you to come and come to the villages of Ionya.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0060par0194	Thank you, Mr. Uphill.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0061par0195	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0060par0196	Yes, Mr. Özkan, please. Please be quiet, Congressman, I can't hear the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0061par0198	The speaker has addressed our group with insults...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0062par0199	What did he say?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0061par0200	He must have made some heavy insults. On the stand...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0062par0201	What did he say? For God's sake! What insult?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0063par0202	What insult?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0064par0203	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0065par0206	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course we all listened to the preacher together. I'm sure with an understanding of his own abdominal pain, from this bench to this nation's insult to our ministers, our MPs...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0066par0208	It's not for the people, it's for you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0065par0209	... once again, we listened to his insult in a manner that the Civil Code would never, ever allow. But I'll make it very clear that in his speech outside of the council...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0067par0211	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0065par0212	... to speak to our nation with harsh insults, even ground-to-ground abuse. Behold! they enter from behind closed doors, and cause the lightning to flash therein, and go about in their own lies, in a manner that only they themselves believe.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0068par0214	Oh! That's no way to pick on me. That's no way to pick on me.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0065par0215	...you can't go down to the fields and the fields and convince these people of those lies. Our nation sees the truth. See, this saintly nation, as it has been expressed since ancient Greece, does the one who wears a shoe squeeze know, the one who produces it? Of course, this nation supports the government of the EC PARTI, which has seen its fate as the fate of the nation for 16 years, while it supports the troops working for this nation in the struggle for sovereignty and future. Look, he told me about the garbage. Wake up, if you're referring to the garbage, look at that idea of municipalism that you've formed today, 25 years ago, to bring the same disgrace back to this great nation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0069par0217	Come to this day, to this day!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0065par0218	Wake up!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0070par0220	Know your place, your place!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0065par0221	Right now, in constitutional order, this nation is run by law within constitutional order. We are under the supervision and supervision of both the judiciary and our government and our nation's Parliament. Ben wishes that all lawmakers in this nation speak in sincere and true terms, in accordance with Parliament's terms, in accordance with the Civil Code, and again convincing the nation...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0071par0223	People don't hear it any other way.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0065par0224	I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0072par0226	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Eker...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0073par0228	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer from the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0072par0229	Mr. Eker, it's not a taunt, it's an explanation; I'll give you two minutes from your position.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0073par0232	Well, thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just mentioned my name, saying that I received a medal from France and that this happened after an import. Now, I've been in this House for years, over 16 years, and over ten years, I've done the Ministry. Some members of the party have mentioned it before, and I have explained it in advance. The incident there is one: in 2011, he was the head of the period of the French G20. At the summit of that period's presidency, we had some suggestions as the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Turkey to take part in the declaration. About what? We've proposed new methods of combating global hunger. It's been accepted. We've had our share of global hunger-fighting activities. Now, two of my fellow bureaucrats and two of my fellow bureaucrats have not only been assigned to me, but to my two fellow bureaucrats -- an undersecretary, a chief of foreign affairs -- and they have been given a document, an engagement. The reason for this is because the Turkish Republic's Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism -- the government of the Republic of Turkey -- has been active in fighting global hunger.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0074par0239	Put him through, Mr. Eker.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0073par0240	Because we're saying it, we're saying it, but some people don't want to understand it, they don't want to understand it, but for the record, I'll say it again. The second issue is: Turkish Republic exports agriculture to France that year are more than $130m from imports.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0075par0242	I'll give you population rates, I'll give you how low animalism is, compare it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0076par0243	Including the internal processing regime?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0073par0244	In the European Union, France was the 1st country in Europe in terms of agricultural production before the EC PARTI came to power in 2002, while Turkey was the fourth. As of 2005, the Republic of Turkey became the first in Europe in terms of agricultural production value.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0075par0245	Horse, horse, I'm in the castle, come on! Thanks to you, livestock is over in Turkey!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0073par0246	The speaker himself has just become Turkey's leader for an agricultural production of $70 billion.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0075par0248	Mr. Secretary, you've finished animalism in the country, animalism.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0077par0249	The Europeans noticed, the people in Turkey didn't! You've finished farming, agriculture.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0075par0250	People are hungry!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0078par0251	Mr. President, I have to finish.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0079par0252	Put him through, go ahead, but I'll give him a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0078par0253	Now, if someone should be given a medal for importing from somewhere, I should have given it to the Minister of Agriculture of France, not to me, because they had more imports than us. Now, I just want to say this in this sentence: Ziya Pasha has a Beyti, and I will only say his first verse, and I will not say the second: I do not know the combination of the Ayaf, Solomon. I suggest that you know a little bit more about Turkey before I make such claims and claims.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0079par0256	Thank you, Mr. Eker. Mr. Aselalioglu, do you have a request for a word?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0080par0258	Yes, I do, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0079par0259	There's you and Mr. Bilgen. Here you are, Mr. Sekalalioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0080par0262	Mr. President, it's our government that we discuss the budgetary budget in budgetary talks at least -- and on behalf of our government, our officials here, our ministers here, the relevant bureaucrats here, they will respond. It's causing inequality in representation and response, disrupting the negotiation. One other thing, I'd like to introduce him: there's something else that we see every day in these budget talks. It is, of course, the right to defend what the government wing has done, but this is where we walk to the end of the budget, where it will lead us to thank our government on behalf of our nation for the budget. In the name of our farmers, our small incomes, our pensioners, our producers, our livestock, our industrialists, the people who will increase the production of the country in the COBI, we will be satisfied with our government, and we will say, "So the country -- the country, the prosperity -- has never seen anything in your day, has never seen anything like what it has seen, has lived. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0081par0266	Go ahead and finish it, Mr. Alekalioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0080par0267	What you're offering us, like a interest budget, is this is what we're going to get for this process, where you're giving them a number like 117 billion to pay interest: this is the budget that a political father who's wasted a family on an unproductive investment of the value of 81 million. We're trying to address the losses on the relevant parts of our economy while the budgets of the relevant ministries are being discussed to build this budget. We don't have the language or the way we fight on our websites. We're just warning our government to remind us of where they brought us. It's obvious where our animalism comes from. We've even been able to buy meat from Serbia. The words that we are a country importing hay have become a place in our language. So if we're not going to make a statement about us being an agricultural importer from a self-sufficient country that can't afford itself and actually reduces its pay grade, then what are we going to talk about in budget negotiations? If we're not going to talk about it, what are we going to talk about? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0082par0271	Put him through, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0080par0272	So when we express our sensitivity to this issue, we use the possibility of finding some government -- we find our government only in budget negotiations -- in this new system: we try to make our systems much more serious in order to shout as loud as our voices come out, to make our problems public to their ears, to their hearts. If you're on the side, why did you introduce us the new system? It's a very good system. If this is the new system, then let our government respond.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0082par0273	Thank you, Mr. Secalioglu. Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0083par0275	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0082par0276	The members of the group have a request for a word, and then I'll listen to you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0084par0278	Mr. President, after this morning's train disaster, of course, we've only shared the pain and asked questions and been briefed by the House. Surely the Minister, the Minister, has no intention of misleading the House directly, misinformation, mispronouncement, will, but they've obviously misled him as well, and the House has been given further information. Now, for about three hours, both the head of the Chamber of Machine Engineers and the President of the United Transport Union have made it very clear that there is no signalization system between Ankara-Sincan, that the opening has been made, but that the signalization tender has not yet been made. I called them, I called them both, I got confirmation from them in case there's a misinformation in the press. There's no bid yet.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0082par0281	Go ahead, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0084par0282	Now, when you're informing us that this transport is happening with the most advanced technology, isn't this advanced technology, as we know it, outside of what is called the old train mobile communication, which is radio communication? If that's what it is, high-tech, it's already been there. Once again, we're dealing with a picture of human life's worthlessness, and we're probably dealing with the consequences of bureaucrats, politicians, political responsibility. Not when a country has its dignity. The value of a government's worth to a human being is the value of human life. I am renegotiating my opinion that a more serious, convincing statement should be given to the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0085par0287	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0086par0290	The wise people who are coming now are really sad information. As the Deputy Director of the Group stated, high-speed trains are sending a guide train from ahead of them 15 minutes ago before they begin morning flights. The line is being checked to see if there's anything wrong with the roads. Before the high-speed train in Eskişehir is taken off, a guide train from Eskişehir is coming to Ankara. Ten kilometers away from Ankara, at 06.30 a.m., he collides with a high-speed train heading for Konya. We don't know yet whether this collision happened head-on or head-on at the marshal Gar. The biggest problem there is that the signalization system is incomplete. The signalization system between Ankara central and Sincan has not been completed.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0085par0293	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0086par0294	I'm sure the old system runs a train because it's not finished, so it's on the radio. The railroads have traffic systems. The first of those systems is the TMI, the telephone management of trains from the center, and the second is the CTC, where trains run from the center by signals. What we're doing is we're using the signal to run the trains from the center, the second one. There is no signalation between Ankara central and Sincan. Before this system is finished, there's a train system that's been immediately activated. For example, is Ankara-Istanbul high-speed train complete? It's not over. After Ali Fuat Pasha, we run fast trains on the old road, not high-speed railways; like this. What we're trying to say is that the people who died today were not killed in an accident of their own destiny, they were murdered in a state of negligence. If they're going to prove otherwise, let them prove it as soon as possible. We no longer want to embrace our dead, we want to embrace our living. No one but the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can shut down the Grand National Assembly and talk about our people's lives.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0085par0297	Bind your words, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0086par0298	Let the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be given accurate information, and let Parliament exercise its authority to the fullest. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0085par0300	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. I promise Mr. Baki Simsek, who has just arrived here to inform me that he's conducting investigations at the scene of the accident, for two minutes from his position, to inform the Parliament's General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0087par0304	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, we went to the scene with Mr. Erkan Haberal and Commissioner Ahmet Erbast, who had been appointed by our group's vice president, to investigate at the scene of the accident. Of course, at 06.30 a.m., the train making the trip to Ankara-Konya -- there is a train from Ankara to Konya. There is a train from 06.30, and the locomotive and the train collide head-on on the same rails. According to our information from the crime scene, they're on the same track. So because two trains are moving in the same direction on the same track, unfortunately, they collide head-on on the same track, and the impact of the collision is driving the cars up into the air, and the overpass falls on the wagons, and we lose nine of our citizens. Three of them are engineers, two of them are train drivers; one of them is one of them, one of them is another. We've got one engineer down. 84 of our citizens are getting hurt. Ten of them -- according to the latest information -- are being treated standing up and sent away, but 74 of our citizens are still in the hospital. Of course, at this time -- all of these souls are our lives -- by radio or by telephone -- and the departure time of the trains is fixed, so these trains leave every day at 6:30. It's common knowledge. Of course, there are personal mistakes here, technical mistakes. Here, no matter how much we talk, no matter how much we talk after the lives are gone, it's not a solution, but here we are, with the government and the ministry's officials and all the parties and groups in common, in order that these events will not be sacrificed after this, seriously...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0088par0309	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0087par0310	I am, Mr. President. There's no price to pay for human life. We can sacrifice other things, but there's no explanation for our sacrifice. Let's do what we have to do about the safety of a railroad or about the signalling system here or the air system here, so let's do what we have to do about it, and really, let's make the sacrifice elsewhere, and let's not have a new disaster -- this is the second major train disaster this year that we've had. I pray for the mercy of God to all our citizens who died in the accident, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. I hope to God that accidents like this don't happen and the government will take the necessary precautions.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0089par0313	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Yosh, you have a voice request. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0090par0317	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, sir, agricultural policies are the most important issue in our country. We've brought the troubles of agriculture here from the field, to live. We've also said the Minister's shortcomings, we've criticised the government's wrongs, and we've done nothing but criticize. However, there's an insufferability, there's an insufferability that we don't understand -- we haven't hurt anyone -- that has to be avoided, otherwise the Council's initiative will be even worse. We try to speak in kindness. To friends who accuse us of lying, please, I don't want to respond in the same way, out of courtesy. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0089par0319	Thank you, Mr. Uphill. Mr. Zeybek, you wanted to make a promise to inform us about the accident. Your time is two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0091par0324	Mr. President, when we heard about the accident in the morning, we were in a very bad situation when we arrived at the scene, along with our friends from the Transport Commission, under the direction of our group's vice president. We've talked to the public prosecutors. The first finding that the guide engine here and the fast train are on the same route is definitely changing the tracks of the guidance locomotive in signalization. So, normally, there's a four-way track there, two-way train, two-way train coming, the track going by the speed train, and the tracks going by the guidance locomotive are different, but a few minutes ago, the locomotive gets in the way of the fast train, due to an error in the signalization or other neglect. Of course, we would like to state to the Ministry of Transport officials that fast trains are a sensitive means of transportation around the world for pre-warning systems, barriers to radar systems. In 2009, we took the roller coaster. Istanbul-Ankara began in 2013, the Ankara-Konya campaigns began in 2011, but since this system did not exist, the engineers who were driving the fast train did not realize the danger that would come their way. I mean, we still have a sense of a fast train that's trying to cover the risks that are going to occur through human eyes, but the main reason is...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0089par0327	Let's give it another minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0091par0329	We're doing budget talks, Mr. President, especially in 2018 and 2019, the ministry, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, which has been saving the most from 2018 to 2019. So as long as you're saving infrastructure and transport, signalization, the services you need to do to the Turkish Republic's State Railways, we Chorus continue to experience Ankara accidents. From here, as I complete my words, I ask for a quick cure for the wounded again, and for God's mercy to our engineers and our dead citizens.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0089par0331	Thank you, Mr. Zeybek. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0092par0334	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, this hand is for car accident, train accident reviews, research continues, it will be done. It's only been eight or eight and a half hours, and we sincerely believe that, hopefully, the most advanced technology, the scientific study, will bring the new system into existence so that all of these accidents don't happen again. They're still working on it. On this occasion, again, I wish God's mercy to our lost citizens, to their families and to our beloved nation, and to our wounded, God willing, to seek immediate healing. Of course, budget talks have actually been suspended as a result of a conversation. On this occasion, I would like to thank Mr. Yavuz Yekalioğlu, the deputy president of the group, from the bottom of my heart. Of course, the truth speaks out of regret; discussing different ideas gives us direction at the point of finding the truth, all of us.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0093par0339	Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0092par0340	Most of the time, we've acted together in the legislature or at the point of the group's proposals, and we've shown repeatedly the success of making the law in agreement. In this period alone, we were able to draw more than 40 articles of law from the consensus of all groups. But we have to separate between criticism and insult. Mr. Alekalioglu has not just demonstrated a style and style that advocates the speaker's speech on the stand, and I sincerely thank you for that. I believe that if we resolve this issue, we will be able to gain a much better distance from the better, ideal laws at the point of enacting the lege feranda. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0094par0343	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0095par0344	Mr. President, may I make a statement with your understanding? Just so it doesn't go away, I beg your pardon.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0094par0345	Here you are, Mr. Sekalalioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0095par0347	We've had our sensitivity to this village, and a little bullying, sir, and I'll tell you my motto about it: service along with the city law is not just the village we've lost when we're making it a political gain with the sauce. I was going to present this to the Ministry of Culture when we discussed it, but I'd like to make sure it doesn't go away. While the villages were combined with the city's laws, it was also necessary to ask your poets, your folk poets, your poets, the great writers of Turkish literature who had taken out the great novels of Turkish literature from there. When we're talking about a civilization, a city, a government, we're going to take a garbage truck here, we're going to dump it on asphalt, we're going to build your concrete. We build walls on the edges of your villages. It's more than just a village. The village is, in fact, the place of our will to hold on to this thousand-year-old land, where we stand behind our family existence, our sense of migration. So what we're really trying to draw attention to -- and Mrs. Özlem in the budget said yesterday -- is that the spending pens of the budget are also a sign of what we're prioritizing. I mean, whatever pencils you put in the budget...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0094par0350	Complete, Mr. Alekalioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0095par0351	The pencils you put in the budget, the answers you give to our systems on the budget, are a sign of your vision of Turkey. So the fact that you've been constantly agreeing with our systems that we won the election. See, we've been the winners of the elections for 16 years. The fact that you've been dealing with it is exactly what we're trying to point out in the Turkish homeland. We're trying to draw attention to him. This is not the home of those who say, "I will win on every occasion." This is the home of those who are willing to lose on righteousness. So we simply remind you of the responsibility that opposition has brought to our stock: This is not the place to win, but the place to share, to build together, to build together. The Clave is the key to this. We're trying to put the frame here. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0096par0354	Thank you, Mr. Secalioglu. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 NOW, the final word for the good PARTY belongs to Isparta MP Aylin Gutsy. Here you go, Mr. Brave. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0097par0406	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. Due to the seasonal infection that I'm having, I'm in your presence with a low voice and accept my apologies. My hand to all our citizens and their families who died in the train crash today, may God have mercy on you. I wish the wounded a speedy recovery. When our Minister was here... two days ago, three houses burned down in the village of Isparta Eğirdir. Thank God there's no casualties, but our citizens have lost all their assets. Of course, we talked about peasants, agriculture, and livestock; ten of their most important animals were destroyed with small animals. I'd appreciate it if we could give them a hand in this matter as a government. Yes, I have made a commitment to the State Department of Water Affairs and Meteorology in the current budget law. I, for one, feel that it is not right to individualize problems by targeting individuals on the stand of the most sacred institution of our republic, our nation, but I will not be able to comply with my speech today, even if I am not pleased with it. The following thing is: Recently, Mr. Minister Colonel, by criticising Mr. Süleyman Demirel, our President, and by referring to the EIT, they said we will not do what Demirel did. They said, "We will not do what Demirel did. We will not do what he promised to do." Now, I don't agree with this second part, of course, but I totally agree with what the Minister said first, that he couldn't do what Demirel did. Why, when we look at their 16-year-old power, there's so little they can do that they can't do like Demirel. Now, since it's about State Water Affairs, let's see what Solomon Demirel, the 30-year-old State Water Affairs Director, has done...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0098par0416	Mr. Brave, I'd like to ask you to take a short break. We have guests, let's greet them because they may not be able to stop much longer. The president of the Libyan High State Council, Mr. Khalid al-Mishri General Assembly, welcome to them on behalf of our Parliament. [[Applause]] 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Yes, thank you, Mr. Brave, go ahead, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0099par0467	Yes, when it comes to State Water Affairs, my mind and most of the people here is sure to think of me as Solomon Demirel, our 9th President, who signed his name as King of the Dams, with huge public investments signed by the Republic. In 50 years of 90 years of his life, he is involved in the incident that took place in Turkey, and most of the time at the very beginning. Dear friends, within 95 years the Republic of Turkey has shown a great transformation, transformation and development. This transformation was possible when the government and its actions, which excited Turkey's struggle for democracy behind its national will, equipped the country with giant artifacts. The result of successful efforts and historical significance in this development process should be appreciated by all who love and depend on this country. There's a new expression that I'm very uncomfortable with, the concepts of old Turkey and new Turkey, put in front of our nation by power, and I want to express it here. What is it that you don't like, that you call Turkey, which has been created by bloodshed, founded, and has been cut every ten years, yet has it come to this day with its people? There is only one Republic of Turkey, and despite everything, it will live forever in accordance with the philosophy of the founding of the great Ataturk. The Republic of Turkey, founded by the great Ataturk, is the name of the door to modernity, and the Great Ataturk has opened the way for reforms in many areas. With the transition to multi-party life and the democratic quality, Turkey has now made Turkey a world state by 2000, with governments taking public support. The Prime Minister of Demirel was the prime minister of Turkey during its rapid growth period. Turkey has electricity in 13 villages in 1950, in the village of 40,000 by 2000; from darkness to light, dear friends. By 2000, we are the 17th economy between 192 countries and sit at the European table. When he was Prime Minister -- what is now thought of -- the Keban Dam, the Ataturk Dam, the Urban Tunnel, the GAP, the Bosphorus Bridge, Alexanderun and Ereğli Demir Steel, the Sejdehir Aluminum Facility, Alia Petrokimya Facility, Atash Rafinery, Tokat Almus, Kesikkaya, Keban, and Altabapapa. At that time, the Ambar operator was launched, for example, from the project of Demirel, including the Bolu Tunnel, the Bolu Tunnel, the highway and the fast trains. And underneath the Marmaray you're so proud of, it's his signature. Yes, the Phoruh, Zap, and Sakarya hydropower plants, the hydropower plants built on the water that landed steeply on the Black Sea, and the GAP hydropower plants were built. Afşin-Elbistan thermal plants, Meadowhan and Kangal Tevzi are among the valuable works of this period. In 1965, Turkey had three large dams. By 1980, 150 large dams were built, 200 small dams and ponds. They provided both irrigation and electricity production. This GAP project, built on Firat and Dicle, is not only one of the world's largest, most important projects, but also the first, in fact, to the East and Southeast Region; 22 dams and 19 hydropower plants, and our work, which we are very proud of as Turkey. Roads, bridges, airports, shipyards, ports, whatever you can think of, phone, television, agriculture industrialization, industry, development, college, schools, hospitals. In this period, inflation in Turkey reached 5 per cent of growth by 7 per cent and mega-investments were made in Turkey, thanks to the planned development model by Demirel. Now, to sum it up, we wouldn't have said the wrong thing: you know, those major arteries that you're selling, these are the ones that were built in Turkey, which you don't like and you call it old. Now, let's come to the dams that the AK PARTY has always boasted of doing. Yeah, you've been bragging about how many dams and hydropower plants you've built on all platforms for 16 years. You're right, people should brag about what's been done, of course, but you're saying that you've added 423 new dams to dams in 195 in 2002, and that the number of hydropower plants has gone from 49 to 540, so let's see how that goes. Mr. Veysel Eroglu, our former Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, is here now. In 2017, this brother built the most dams in the world. I have the world record now. He said, Mr. Secretary. Now, the electricity production of hydropower plants built during the EC PARTY failed to produce electricity at hydropower plants built during the Prime Minister of Süleyman Demirel. The HESFFs, which were made during the Iron governments, Ataturk, Karakaya, Keban, Altınkaya, Birecik, Deeper; yes, each one of them produces a very high number. There's no time, totaling 6 HES 7.580 megawatts. The power of 12 HESFs is 5.576, the largest of which is 1,200 megawatts, including hydropower plants, which are over 250 megawatts, which were under construction during the EC PARTY administrations. Now, what does that mean? This means that the production of electricity in the HESEs before your powers is exactly 135 percent greater than what you're doing. I mean, I feel like you're looking at dams in the sales caravan. So I would like to emphasize here as a nation that Mr. President, who said, "I don't want this to happen to this nation, and we won't write it down." Now, it was meteorology, my position. In meteorology, we will also look at the General Manager's office, the Court's 2017 audit reports. Well, I'm running out of time, but let me get this straight. The Court criticises the meteorological budget and says: "Metheorology pays rent to airports, state airports and private airports, where it normally does its duty. "
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0100par0480	Go ahead, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0099par0481	If you can add more.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0100par0482	Sure, I'll add two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0099par0483	Thank you. This rent is not paid under normal conditions by law enforcement or other agencies, while the Court finds its payment illegal and therefore says there is no legal basis for paying rent. The other find is that due to the return of additional payments paid to staff due to the return capital, the damage to the year 2017 says: you are away from the institutional purpose of operating and you are now returning to pay employee salaries. I'll give you the figures: In 2017, investment spending was 48 million, while 2018 was considered $7,450,000 in the budget, so it landed on him. Which means the difference is the staff costs, which means the waste you can't escape. Now, I'm going to skip all that, and I'm running out of time. Very valuable lawmakers, look, why are we saying this: you've been operating with perception management for 16 years, and you've been coming back to our nation and saying a lot of things. And you're pointing out that everything that's negative is responsible for what happened before you. Now, with this painting that you've presented to our young people, our desperate, precious friends, and you've led the economy so badly that, unfortunately, I'm very sorry, our number of starving citizens has broken record, our minimum wage, our pensioner, our workers, our businessman, our civil servant, our farmer, our poor, our women are desperate. After all, our beautiful Turkey has been anxious and unhappy for ten years. Now, look, it's the institutions of the authorities that are in charge of making promises to citizens, so, of course, it's the opposition, it's the opposition, it's the press, it's the press; we're doing our job here, civil society organizations, it's the universities, it's the unions. If you'll excuse us, of course we'll criticize you, either that's our job, because that's why people brought us to this stand and these seats. And while we're doing what our nation has given us, we say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0101par0489	Okay, put him through, please. This is the last time I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0099par0490	Because the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the heart of the free democratic system, because the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the custodian of rights and freedoms, because in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, power is in every regime, but it is the opposition, the press, the universities that make regimes democratic. Liberal democracy doesn't just promise people beka and security, it doesn't. You've been preparing for the local elections over the beka debate lately, don't our people see that, my dear friends? It gives both life, security and freedom of property, and bread, and governments, and take one of these. Where you call it, regime is no longer a regime. Dear lawmakers, finally, the government's job is not to row, but to steer, I say, to hold the helm firmly, and I say to you, please vote with your own consciences in this great assembly and in the high office our nation has given us, while Turkey is sailing to the cliffs like an empty ship, and please vote on everything here with your own consciences. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, let's set up a research commission for the train crash. We said it wasn't built.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0102par0494	What's the use?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0099par0495	Now, there have been three more train accidents. My rule is that we all come together. Look, you're all here to support this. Come on, let's set up the research commission together. I'll take it down to Parliament next week.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0103par0496	Thank you, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0099par0497	I wish our 2019 budget to be a blessing. The heart would like to have a budget that provides for the urgent needs of our citizens. May God grant us something better. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit02spe0103par0500	Thank you, Mr. Brave. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0103par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and with the Central Management Act of 2017. Commission? He's in position. There will now be talks on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, but before that...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0104par0005	There was a tease.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0103par0006	Let's take it as an explanation, not a tease, and we'll make a promise of your location. I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0105par0011	Sir, first I ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives in the accident, our nation's peace. First of all, Isparta MP Aylin Gutsy Lady specifically mentioned our number of dams. I'm particularly proud, we're the most dam-building government in the world.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0106par0013	The pond, the pond, Mr. Secretary. A Keban wouldn't do it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0105par0014	The 541 dam opened 548 dams in Ankara and 7 in Istanbul during this period. They're finished, they're not open, I'm not talking about them.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0107par0015	That's right, we know you did, Minister. Minister, we know you opened it, but we don't know what you did.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0105par0016	We've opened 534 hydroelectric plants, 534. Here, Mrs. Aylin said: "How much have you produced?"
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0107par0018	Say it, say it. Tell me you've opened the works.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0105par0019	If you'll excuse me, I'll explain, and you answer. The numbers are talking, I'll run the numbers. The late Ironel always made the numbers work.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0108par0020	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0109par0021	Neither do I, Mr. Secretary, and not a Keban does 500.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0105par0022	As you know, he served. Whoever served this country, nailed it, God bless everyone, but when we arrived, the hydroelectric production capacity was 26 billion kilowatts in 2003, and when I left, I raised it to 99 billion kilowatts. That's really a record.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0109par0024	Mr. President, there's no state signature on one of them.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0110par0025	You invented electricity, didn't you, Minister?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0105par0026	I'd also like to point out that one of the three light bulbs that burns today, in the rainy times...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0109par0027	Did you also find the light bulb?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0110par0028	You found the light bulb, you invented electricity.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0105par0029	...lit Turkey with hydroelectric power plants that we're building.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0109par0030	Mr. Secretary, did you also find the light bulb?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0110par0031	Well done, Minister. I swear to you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0105par0033	In the dry season, one of the four light bulbs is lit entirely by the hydropower plants that we make. Also, height is important in the dam, we built the highest dams in Turkey. (AK PARTY) First Ermenek with 218 meters, then Deeper with 25,000 metres; now Yusufeli is being built, with 275 metres it will be Turkey's highest dam. Highness is important in the dams. I also want to say to the Ispartans: We built 15 dams to Isparta, 6 ponds, 21 in all.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0111par0038	Here, put your words on the line.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0112par0039	You see how excited he is, Mayor?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0113par0040	Mr. Minister, what should I do?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0114par0041	Sir, if you'll excuse me, I'll finish with a sentence or two.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0115par0042	Complete, please, we've turned on the mic.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0113par0043	You have to give the Minister an hour.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0116par0044	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0117par0045	But it doesn't work like that, Mr. President. It's not a tease. It's nothing. Then I'll fill you in.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0118par0046	15 dams to Isparta (Isparta), 6 ponds, 21 total. But I was there... then my license plate was 32, and the Ispartans said: "The license plate of Isparta is 32, and now we're building 13 more, it's almost finished." So we set a record in Isparta, with 34 dams and ponds.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0119par0047	Well done, Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0118par0048	I thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0120par0050	Thank you, Mr. Eroglu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0121par0051	Mr. Secretary, you set up Isparta, didn't you? You set up Isparta, you found the electricity, you found the light bulb. Hopefully we'll get to blow up the light bulb.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0122par0052	Mr. President, I'd like to inform you as well. I'd like to give you some information.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0120par0053	Dear friends...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0122par0054	534 dams don't make a Keban.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0123par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0124par0056	Hopefully, if anyone's made more dam ponds... not counting the number of ponds, we've made a record of over a thousand ponds. If there are more of us in the world who build dams and ponds, please welcome them.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0122par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0125par0058	Dear friends, I'll meet your demands when I can.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0122par0059	Let them speak from the stand, from the stand! No hard feelings, nothing.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0125par0060	Mr. Haydar, you can't claim that I've ever done anything unfair about this. Please calm down. Get into the system, I promise anyone who wants a word.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0122par0061	I do.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0126par0062	Mr. President, I want a word, too.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0127par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0128par0064	Mr. Lightning, do you wish to make a statement?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0127par0065	Yes, Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement regarding the Minister's speech.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0128par0066	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0127par0068	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your explanation. Of course, you have come to 32 things: 32 Isparta, 33 Mersin. Now, construction of one of Turkey's highest dams as a body height has been going on for years. You've made many promises, but unfortunately your promise has not been fulfilled. Your ministry is finished. I reminded you again the other day. Look, it won't end in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018... 2019. Look, it won't end in 2019. Now I remind you again, that the Mersinites shall receive the good news you give to the men of Ispartah concerning the Abyss and the Cotton Dams; so give good news to the Mersinites, and let your word be fulfilled. Ask the Minister specifically, your successor, please, or we won't be able to face the Mersins. Each time we go, they ask, "What about these dams? What about these ponds? There's no activity, no money, no funding; all the construction sites are empty now, Minister. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The construction sites are all abandoned, all empty. We need your support on this. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0129par0074	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0130par0075	Mr. President, I'd like to say something about that.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0129par0076	And you have my word on your location for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Oztunç.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0130par0079	Mr. Minister, Kahramanmarash's license plate is 46; let me remind you of that. There's the Adatepe Dam, you know, the foundation was laid in 1995, it was made by 67% before your governments, your government arrived, you've been in the government for years; there's nothing. Mr. Mahir Ünal came to us. He said, "We'll do it." He said, "This is what we're doing, this is what we're doing." He said, "Nothing has been done." The Karakuz Dam is the same, the Karaktepe Dam is the same. So if you're saying that we've done 32 jobs by 32 plates, Maraş is 46, you don't have a job, for God's sake! You found the electricity, you found the light bulb, you built the Isparta, and soon you'll come and say, "We built the Marash." Didn't you also build Süleyman Demirel University?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0131par0081	No, Istanbul Technical University...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0130par0082	They're all stories, Minister. You found that light bulb, and I hope we're gonna blow that light bulb out.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0132par0083	Thank you, Mr. Oztunç.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0133par0084	Mr. President, I'd like to give you an answer, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0132par0085	Now, if you'd like, Mr. Sureyya, this is...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0133par0086	There's been a mistake, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0132par0087	Then I'll give you my word to the Commission that you'll explain it because...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0133par0088	I shouldn't judge the commission's rights this way because it's not true, what Mr. Öztunç said.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0132par0089	You'll explain later, Mr. Tarayya. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Now we're in line for the Justice and Development Party, and I'm going to take turns promising the speakers on behalf of the party. The first statement is from İstanbul MP Erol Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0134par0142	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish God's mercy to our brothers who died in today's train crash, and to the wounded, and to the wounded, an urgent cure. I made a commitment to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization budget. I wish the 2019 budget to be good for our country and our nation. In particular, with the presidential government system, let me stress that the changes in the environment and urbanism ministry's structure are extremely important to Turkish municipalism. In particular, I would like to express that on behalf of Turkish municipalism, we are now evolving into a period when our municipalities will be able to decide on basic infrastructure, development planning, urban transformation, and environment, as the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation is being transferred to the Ministry of Mahalile Administrations within the Bank and the Interior Ministry. As a former mayor, as I go to the 2019 elections, I'd like to express the concrete steps, the figures made for municipalities during the EC PARTY period, which is around 16 years ago. At the very beginning of my statement, I would like to express our thanks to our government, on behalf of all 1,398 mayors, for the fact that our government raised the budget of 2019 by 28.4 per cent from the previous year. Dear lawmakers, let me share with you a few findings in the 16-year period between 2002-2018. In 2002, there was a 4.7 billion source from 3,225 municipalities and centers in this country. In the period of EC PARTY governments, all of our municipalities have been reformed, especially the legislation of municipalities has been reorganised; serious regulations have been made in the Law on the Metropolitan City Municipality Law, the State Special Administration Law, and the transfer of a portion from municipalities have been made, and municipalities have been made stronger and more realistic. I'm the former mayor. There was a debate on all panels and symposiums; these municipalities don't know how to budget, brother. Why? All her budgets are just a fantasy for her. With this arrangement, the whole imaginary budget -- Turkey's shame picture for municipalities -- has been terminated. In terms of authority, a number of regulations have been made, especially in terms of preschool education, health care, housing, sports clubs, and their relationship with both central management and the cooperation of local governments among themselves and NGOs, and even the local authorities have been authorized to organise many arrangements on national and international grounds. The scale problem has been taken care of. The number of our 3,225 municipalities has been reduced to 1,398. In addition to existing urban municipalities, the capital city municipalities have been taken to the borders. Mr. Aselalioglu has just stated about the villages, which I find partly justified in the criticism of the corporate personality of these closing villages, but it was a ten-year obligation for 10 percent of investments to be divided into these places, especially with the law on closing municipalities and villages, especially with newly established cities. Financially, as we enter 2019, I want to tell you what resources we gave to which municipalities, to be seen: in 2002, all of Turkey's municipalities, to the local authorities, were transferred 4.7 billion shares from central management; in dollars, I'll tell you, $2.9 billion. As it became clear, in 2017, we transferred the money from the centre to 60.8 billion dollars, and in the amount of $16.7 billion, which is close to five times as much as the amount of money. Our money for 2019 is $93.6 billion, and close to $17.5 billion in dollars, and in Turkish political history, I'm a man who knows about the last century of municipalism, and for the first time, the municipalities were given such strong financial support during the AK PARTI administrations. Your support isn't enough. You've got a cut from the city, I'm a former mayor. I'm here, I'm only the mayor for a few months, and they said, "Sir, all the money from the central administration has been cut off, we don't have any money." What do you mean? Sir, you are the opposition municipality, so the money of opposition municipalities -- then in power -- was suddenly cut off by SHP and DYP. And we -- I already took over 95 per cent of the staff spending -- were left in the middle. Praise be to God, the AK PARTY government, for all municipalities, they can't be accused of injustice. With respect to the fact that Mr. Recep Bey is Mayor, 40 per cent of all municipalities have been cut from the time of our President. Whether it's from the AK PARTY or the CHP, or the MPP, or the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), it doesn't matter. And when the blackout is lifted -- and I'm saying it's done with these regulations -- it's done in the same way in all municipalities.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0135par0154	They didn't pay for the flood because of Bozköy, the flood money, the CHP municipality.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0136par0155	But in the AK PARTY municipalities, the subgates there, the bridges, the highways, you don't do the MHPs, you don't do them. You take over the subway, you don't take over when it's MHP.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0134par0156	I'm sorry, Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0137par0157	Here, complete it, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0134par0158	The problem with our cities was an unresolved problem for nearly 40 years. 748,000 of our people's property problems have been solved. For example, regarding CSEADAS, about our villages; let it be a little exaggerated: For the first time since Noah (AS) had gone to 4,729 villages, where water had not been watered, and the water of our 52 thousand villages had been repaired. The result: Today, when we look at municipalities and cities, let me say that it has become more efficient, more efficient, more involved, more transparent, and more interested in all the problems of our cities. Let me stress with the presidential government system that our municipalities will be even more powerful from now on. In 2019, Turkey won the mayoral election, our winning nation, of course the winning AK PARTY and the winning Cumhur Alliance, I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0138par0163	Thank you, Mr. Rock. The order now belongs to Adana MP Ahmet Zenbulci. Here you go, Mr. Zenbilci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0139par0168	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the basis of budget talks by our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. I'd like to share with you our experience here as a man who just served as a bureaucrat at the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization for ten years, such as my dear brother Erol Kaya Bey. First of all, because of this morning's train crash, we express our condolences, our sadness. I pray for mercy from Your Holiness, and I pray for speedy healing. Surely, legally, administratively, anyone who is wrong will answer at this point, and I believe that the necessary investigation into this point will be carried out meticulously by the relevant institutions. Our Ministry of Environment, protection, construction, construction, urban transformation, the administration of the presidential government in 2011, along with the Turkish Real Estate Bank, National Real Estates and Local Governments General Directorships, has received important tasks and responsibilities in areas related to the management of the government and local governments. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, our world is changing rapidly every day. Among the most affected by this change are our cities, of course. According to the UN estimates, the world's population will reach 9 billion by 2050. Two thirds of the population will live in cities. Since 1950, our country has had a rather rapid urbanization adventure and continues. The population of our cities rose to 44% in 1950, to 88 percent today. Unscheduled migration in our cities brings with it many problems of social, economic, judicial, and inadequacies in infrastructure and overstructure. The march launched by our President's mayor in 1994 was based on the understanding of municipalism of the EC PARTY governments. Our cities, which have met the concept of social municipalism, have been transformed into a habitable area, free of garbage mountains and irregular, unplanned areas. Like yesterday, the environment and the city administration is at the center of our understanding today. However, with projects and activities that are suitable for divine order, our cities are not only for development, but also for human beings. Turkey is an earthquake country, an important part of our land is an earthquake zone. We've had about 50 major earthquakes in the last century. I'm afraid we've lost 82 thousand citizens in these major earthquakes. At this point, urban transformations are rapidly continuing in exchange for an unsanitary supply of unsanitary structures that result from irregular migration. The urban transformation movement, which began in 2012, under our President's leadership, continues and continues rapidly today. There are 237 risky areas in 53 different counties in our country. Regarding that, our Ministry's work continues. By 2030, more than 6 million unsanitary building stocks, hopefully, will be cleaned up and continued to work on the construction of healthier, more beautiful buildings under the leadership of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Our citizens' zoning problems have been reconciled and understood by reunited by the name of the Department of Records/Impression Peace, which has been prepared by the Ministry. It still extends to 31 December. Dear friends, our cities have been most affected by the terrorist incidents that took place in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region. Following the ditch incidents they launched against Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and Government have done a serious work in the region, all areas that have been destroyed in areas such as Diyarbakır, Şırnak, Cizre, Cleopatra, Nusaybin, historical fabric, regional structure, climate and other balances have been monitored and handed over to our citizens who live there. The damage has been paid for. One of the things I cared about most was the area of Surici, which they called Diyarbakir. I've been to Surici territory many times.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0140par0182	Complete. Here you go, Mr. Zenbilci.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0139par0184	In the face of the twisted, evil construction there, he has made a whole new appearance with a magnificent Solomonian mosque and its surroundings, with its other Leady Mosque and its surroundings, Melik Ahmet and Vezi Streets. Someone's tearing it down, AK PARTY is renovating it. Finally, our Ministry continues its work on solid waste and zero waste. Mr. President's wives, under the leadership of Lady Emine Erdogan, the work of Zero Waste is a very important work, a very successful work. With this, hopefully, there will be better jobs ahead, cleaner Turkey, and more savings. People, in spite of their gardens, in spite of the events of travel, we strive to rebuild gardens to create beautiful areas for our people to live in. I salute all of you, with the hope that our budget will be a blessing.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0141par0189	Thank you, Mr. Zenbilci. Now it's time to take the stand, Aldeli MP Ilyas Candy. Here you go, Mr. Sugar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0142par0194	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTI Group on the budget of 2019 of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate and its final account in 2017. I salute the Veteran Assembly. Starting with my words, I would like to ask God's mercy and immediate healing for those who are injured, for those who have died because of the train accident in Ankara. Dear lawmakers, we have a 100-year-old experience with the Tapu and the Kadastro General Directorate, which is a guarantee of ownership from the past to the future, where citizens can easily and safely process property. The main service subject of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate is the cadastro and the deed to real estate. With cadastro studies, where is your real estate, how much is your property, and with deeds, you can answer questions about who, who, how you get it, whether you have the same rights as property. The Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate also performs the first diagnostic cadastro, forest and 2/B cadastros, renovation cadastro and numericalization, measurement and control of registering sites, and finally 3/B cadastro studies as part of the cadastro studies. Dear lawmakers, cadastro studies begin in 1947, and the total year-on-year 693 units are being made cadastros by 2003. It's on the chart, too. After 2003, when the AK PARTY comes to power, the average 2.575 units become cadastros per year. As you can see, AK PARTI authorities continue to do 372 percent faster and more quality work in cadastro work, as in any area. In five years, the unfinished cadastro is completed by AK PARTY power. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when it comes to cadastros, I'd like to share with you an anecdote. In 1977, we were in the 2nd class of Tapu Kadastro vocational High School, which is the only one in Turkey and teaches in Ankara, and our General Manager, Rahmeli Galip Esmer Bey, used to come to our austerity law class and told us that children, Turkey's cadastro would be finished in 20 years. The year will end in 20 years, the relevant ministers of the 1980s have made a statement: The year of Turkey's cadastro will end in 20 years. The Turkish cadastro will end in 20 years. The minister of 2000 has made a statement: The cadastro of Turkey will end in 20 years. The year 2003, Tapu Kadastro General Director Zeki Adlı Bey said we will finish the cadastro of Turkey in five years. I asked Mr. Smarty, for twenty-six years we'll finish every year. He says, "In five years, explain how you're going to finish this." Mr. Zeki, the government is opening our way, making the necessary legal arrangements, and opening the cadastro work to the private sector, and hopefully we'll be finished in five years. Yes, the AK PARTY said the power and Turkey's cadastro was completed in five years. (EC PARTY) Not only is the restoration cadastro of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus completed by the end of this year. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are doing one deed per second, serving 30 million people a year as part of the state-of-the-art and keeping a real estate record in the service of the citizens. Again, through the deed, Google Play and Apple Store, 1 million people from abroad and abroad are presented with information on property and cadastro issues related to their parcels. These are not the only revolutionary works of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate, but the deeds are now square-coded, so they're digital. Dear lawmakers, if you have a cell phone and a deed in your pocket, you can get all the information about the property of your property through your mobile phone, even the positioning of the cadastro, so it can take you to any parcel you want at any time. And before you go back to the office where the deed is registered, you can also do the deed at any office or agency in the country or abroad. In addition, the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate also launched the Tapu Archive Information System Project, the TARBIS (TARBIS) for the preservation of some 25 million archive documents and new documents from the Ottoman Empire. Mr. President is the architect of quality and trust in Turkey, providing the fastest transition to e-state in Turkey and using technology with all its resources.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0143par0207	Bind your words, Mr. Sugar. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0142par0209	The final account of the deedu and Kadastro General Directorate in 2017 is 937 million, 197,99,71, and the budget for 2018 is 1 billion, 113,861,000 TL. I thank our ministers and the Director General of Tapu and Kadastro and his team, especially Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who signed the stunning innovations. I salute the Veteran Assembly. I wish our country, our nation, the best of the new budget, with respect.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0143par0212	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Next up, Giresun MP Sabri Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0144par0217	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the Justice Department budget of 2019. I salute our esteemed MPs, the General Assembly, and our beloved nation. In order for society to live in peace and peace, an independent, neutral, efficient and fast justice system is mandatory. Thus, one of the most important goals of governments throughout history has been a well-functioning justice system. In our ancient civilization, justice is a very important place. The peace and happiness of society is brought only by justice. In the case of Yusuf Has Hacib, Kutadgu Bilig. According to the idea of the Justice Department, which is located in the Political Code of Nizamülmülmülk, in the Mukadime. To ensure peace and unity of the people, justice, state, law, politics, military, economics and public relations must be fair. As I have the honor of working together in the chair of the Justice Commission, the elite lawyer, Mr. Ahmet Aymaya, has expressed in a speech, law and justice are the gems of sovereignty. Remove justice from the realm, and you will have a dry and dangerous force. Dear lawmakers, in the past 16 years, there have been very important studies in the field of justice services, many laws have been passed in our great Parliament, and reforms have been made in the judiciary by bringing new establishments. To ensure justice, which is the basis of the peace and peace of society, the trials must be swift, and the citizens must have their rights early. For this reason, the judge, the prosecutor, the number of staff and the number of courts have been increased, new ways of resolving conflicts have been set up, new courts, new institutions. As of 2002, the judge increased the number of prosecutors by 104 per cent to 19.055. In the same way, the number of courts has been increased by more than two times the number of judicial staff, trying to provide faster, more effective services in the judiciary. Law enforcement courts were established in 2016, court decisions were cut down to a minimum, aimed at meeting the work density in the Supreme Court and Prosecutor's Office, and the district court and district administration courts were launched. The Constitutional Court has been granted an individual application on its way to seek the rights, and the right to apply for public supervision is granted. The discrepancies have been resolved before the trial, through mediation and reconciliation, thus opening the way for our workers to meet their rights much sooner. In January 2018, 68 per cent of the file that went to the mediator until November resulted in an agreement. More transparent, accountable reforms have been made for the judiciary. Constitutional amendments have been made, and the use of judicial authority has been guaranteed by impartial courts. Military justice has been lifted, and military crimes have been seen in civil courts. An active struggle with torture has been removed from the country's agenda allegations of torture and abuse.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0145par0225	Hundreds of thousands of workers are now waiting to file a lawsuit.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0144par0226	Our basic laws have been made more in line with our social, political, and economic development. Legal changes have been made to ensure that our citizens' rights to remain unstained and that they are not subject to investigation due to illegal reports and complaints have been made, provided the complaint and complaint against our citizens are abstract and general.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0145par0227	Hundreds of thousands of workers report that he is currently unemployed, unable to appeal to the courts.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0144par0228	The Voice and Video I.T.S.S. has brought out the remotes, so our citizens don't have to go to a remote court to testify in many cases. Members of parliament, from 2002 to today, the construction of 253 justice service buildings has been completed. Thus, independent court buildings were built. A modern criminal execution system has been created with a controlled liberalisation system. You know, for our citizens, a more efficient, faster justice system is proportional to the efficiency of resources. The budget of 2019 is divided into the Ministry of Justice by 18 billion, 35,989,000 TL. In 2002, the ministry's share in the central budget was 0.83 per cent, while its share in the 2019 budget corresponds to 1.75 per cent. Thus, more than 100 per cent has been seen since 2002. As I finish my words, I wish the 2019 budget to be a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0146par0234	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Next is the speech of Lord Osman Mesten. Here you go, Mr. Meten. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0147par0239	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Justice Department budget of 2019. I salute the High Council. First, I wish God's mercy to those who lost their lives in the train accident today in Ankara, and to those who have been injured, and to those who have been injured. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our civilization is founded on justice. Justice is the foundation of property. Our faith commands us to be just. The scales of our apocalypse have always been sensitive, sword sharp, and certainly not compromised justice. Today, if we look at the geography of the Ottomans, we'll understand that better. The root cause of these sufferings, atrocities, massacres is lack of justice. Mr. President, in order for our citizens to benefit from the faster, more effective, fairer decision and trial processes, the share of justice services has been doubled in the central budget over the past 16 years, and our courts' physical resources, structural transformations have gained speed. Along with these, the Constitutional Court has been granted individual applications, the Public Control Agency has been established, medialisation and reconciliation mechanisms that will reduce the burden of courts. In addition, transitioning to the two-degree judicial system with law enforcement courts is one of the key steps taken to ensure that justice is faster. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our governments, as in every field, have signed structural reforms in the judiciary, while on the other hand, they are fighting simultaneously, relentlessly, with the DEAS, PKK and my knowledge, terrorist organizations. No power will hold us back from this struggle against all elements and extensions, including the undivisable integrity of the state and its nation. On December 17th-25, the terrorist organisation attempted a coup against the elected power of the media, police and the judiciary, but failed to achieve its goals with the standing of our President. Immediately after these incidents, members of the police and the court have been relieved of duty, whose identities have been compromised. We've all witnessed on July 15th, what a disaster those who hired their minds and sold their souls to the demon brought our country. Even this great Assembly, which is the site of the national will, has shown the lowness of bombing. That night, he stood up to the leader of our nation, his country, his law and his democracy, shielding his heart from the rise of traitors. As well as our national and domestic elements, our patriots and our heroic police, of course, our country's love, our brave judges have a great deal to do with the repelling of the coup attempt of these scoundrels. On the night of July 15th, our fast-moving judges and prosecutors bravely seized the case and launched investigations. After July 15th, the state-owned, incubated, sleep-deprived, clean-up operations of these traitors became our most determined and uncompromising organization again. It is truly admirable that the powerful stance of our justice organization against its traps is not only moral, but also intellectually challenging methods by the dark criminal organization, which has taken over the police, the judiciary, the Turkish Armed Forces, and the bureaucracy. Despite the decline in the number of judges, prosecutors and assistant staff, I am in debt to all members of our justice organization, who have served their services without fail, even faster than ever before, on this occasion. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, 289 lawsuits have been filed throughout Turkey following July 15 coup attempt. In these cases, about 25,000 people have been tried, 220 have been sentenced and 69 troubled cases are about to be concluded. Given the importance of the cases, the size of the cases, the defendants, the witnesses, and the evidence and the purity, it is necessary to accept that a swift and just process has been carried out. No one has any doubt that the prosecution and judges will be able to satisfy their conscience by judging by a jeweler's thoroughness. We will continue our work meticulously until we have removed all the scars of the coupgers, then the guardians, and finally the coup attempt by the guardians of our nation to justice in the emotional world. As we wish our budget of 2019 to be good for our state, our nation, our entire judicial organization, I thank the Ministry and Parliament staff, especially our Minister, who has been involved in preparing this budget, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0148par0248	Thank you, Mr. Meten. Coming up next, the speech of Afyonkarahisar MP İbrahim Yudunuseven. Here you go, Mr. Yundunuven. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0149par0253	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Justice Department budget, including the Criminal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association of the Prisons, 2019. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly. First of all, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the train crash in Ankara today and to our wounded brothers and sisters who were injured. Dear lawmakers, our beloved nation has brought the AK PARTY to power in 2002, giving us the authority to draft budgets every year until now. With a constitutional amendment last year, this power has been restored to the presidency. I hereby wish our first budget prepared by our presidency to be good for our country, thank you for the support of our beloved nation, our party, and our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Our Ministry of Justice provides a total of 57,000 prisoners, including about 7,000 women, 1,500 children, 3,000 women, 1,800 children, and a total of 262,000 people. As the EC PARTI, we have made the penal execution institutions in line with the standards set by international contracts, particularly the European Convention on Human Rights. We've taken every necessary precaution in the criminal execution system to protect the rights of prisoners and prisoners. Thus, the European Court of Human Rights, which has embarrassed our country in the past, is now in the past. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have developed the possibility of developing physical transformation, mechanical, physical and electronic security systems in criminal execution institutions, opening staff training centres, and providing service and service training for staff. Five world-class education centres have been opened by our Ministry of Justice to improve the professional competency of staff serving in criminal execution institutions. Since the year we came to the government in 2002, 166 new criminal execution institutions in accordance with the norms of the European Union have been completed by our Ministry of Justice and have increased capacity of 138,500 people. 301 criminal execution institutions, which are not fit for the execution regime, without adequate training and healing, were closed because of the very old structures and the fact that some of them are stone buildings, are physically incapable of doing so. Again, everyone knows that the prisons, which witnessed executions and inmate riots, were also transformed into museums during the AK PARTY, where the years of the coup took place. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our prisoners are given all kinds of health services by our Ministry of Justice and have 1,897 vehicles for transport and transport. Starting in 2002, 1,431 prisoners and transport vehicles were taken, except for those who had completed their economic life and had been given my dream for similar reasons. Newly acquired vehicles are worthy of human dignity, and they have qualities that will not neglect security. At the end of the work, the most important achievement is the expansion of a criminal execution system, where fundamental rights and freedoms are more respected in terms of human dignity, and the awareness of all parties in the matter. Thanks to these practices by our Ministry of Justice, our country will continue to serve our people with the vision of 2023 and a judicial system in accordance with international standards. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are a special budgeted, Justice Department organization founded in 1997 for the purpose of protecting and developing the profession and arts of prisoners and prisoners or learning a trade and art. In addition to providing vocational training for prisoners and prisoners in this context, it also provides investment and current needs for the Ministry of Justice's central and rural organisations. As of November 2018, some 65,000 prisoners and prisoners have been provided with vocational training as of November 2018, in our Ministry of Justice for 301 jobs, from food textiles, agriculture and livestock to furniture, from silver processing to construction work. Mr. President, more than 70,000 education and teaching materials required by special education classes are produced in the workplaces of prisoners and prisoners as part of the Special Education Materals Production Project, signed between our Ministry of Education and our Ministry of Justice. Meanwhile, the Employment Institution, which continues its efforts to meet the needs of our country in agriculture and animalism with national resources, plans to contribute to agriculture and to the country's economy using 2,900 seed in the coming period. With these thoughts, I wish our 2019 budget to be a blessing to our entire country, to provide good service to our entire country, to thank all of our fellow members of the Plan and Budget Commission, especially our Minister and all of his staff, who have been working on the budget. I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0150par0265	Thank you, Mr. Yunduniven. In turn, Balıkesir MP Pakize is in Happy Aydemir. Here you go, Mr. Aydemir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're five minutes out.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0151par0270	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Turkish Human Rights and Equality Institution. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. I begin by asking God's mercy for our citizens who died in this morning's high-speed train crash, patience for their grieving families, and urgent healing for our wounded. The EC PARTI governments, which have made progress in every area of life in the 16-year period of power and have made reform levels of everything, show that the first budget of the presidential government system will also provide effective and visible contributions in the areas of peace, development and the protection of human rights. One of the important actions of the AK PARTY governments, which have taken reformal steps in this area, building radical and qualified structures, is undoubtedly the establishment of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey. This institution has taken on three important tasks, such as preventing human rights violations, fighting discrimination, and preventing torture. Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation has been established, including Law 6701, which was published in the Official Gazette, April 20, 2016, to meet the requirements envisioned by the European Union's acquisitor. Man's right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to The first institutional steps in our history to seek and regulate human rights have been taken during the EC PARTY, a road map that has left even the European Union acquish behind. Mr. President, under the direction of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our country is the most humanitarian country in the world, according to the Global Human Aid Report 2018, which is hosting the world's largest asylum seekers today. Based on human rights, we will not build a wall for refugees who are on the agenda of the world but who have not acted on human trafficking. We're not going to let people die on borders like some so-called human rights advocate, some European countries. We, under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, will continue to do what suits our civilization, our faith, our history. Those who have committed human rights advocates in the Gezi protests in our country have become blind, deaf, and dumb in the face of what happened in Paris. At the very moment, he has shown to all European and so-called human rights advocates that no one will teach our country about democracy, human rights and freedoms. From now on, when it comes to democracy and human rights, Turkey is never the place to be searched. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made significant changes in their reforms since the day the EC PARTY set out. He adopted an understanding of a state that treated everyone equally, regardless of their origins, religious beliefs, and ideas. In this minival, to create a system based on universal values, to ensure peace, trust, stability, public auditing, Human Rights and Equality Institutions have been dependent on institutions such as institutions. As the President of the Republic has said in good faith, we are in an understanding of differences as wealth, and our position will never change. The budget, envisioned for Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Agency in 2019, is a total of 12,922,000 Turkish liras. I wish that the central management budget of 2019 and the budget for the Turkish Human Rights and Equality Foundation be good for our country, and once again, I salute the High Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0152par0277	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. Mr. Bilgen, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0153par0282	Actually, Mr. President, I don't think it's right for me to ask for a word between them, but I'd also like to express the urgency of the matter, as well as the hope that it may be addressed in further conversations. During the time of previous Human Rights Commission heads, Mr. Elkatmis held international meetings on how the Human Rights and Equality Foundation should be formed, invited several representatives from abroad, listened, printed the notifications and provided concrete data on how human rights and Equality institution or other institutions that run a similar study would be properly served. Is today's organization the alleged standard in which the work is established or not? If not, why were those workshops, those symposiums made? No, if it's standard, it's really a simple comparison. Mr. President, I won't be long, but secondly, the majority of the speakers have been right about the judges and prosecutors. Now, after December 17-25 -- I'm specifically saying that the lawmakers who are currently in prison -- are in prison for the fact that the lawmakers in this parliament are in prison, with police reports and indictments made by prosecutors who are currently in prison for their arrest and their arrest verdicts, are in prison. Now, dear friends, if you race the double standards, it doesn't matter whether France is ahead or we are behind. Human rights is not an area like this, human rights is a field that requires moral consistency. Now, when something happens to you, you look at the identities of judges and prosecutors, and you say they're terrorists. Now, when the same terrorists make decisions about others, when they make a trial, you cover it up. I think one last double standard applies to France and Travel, Mr. President. One police officer, eight people lost their lives in Turkey's Gezi protests. Does anyone know where their judgment is?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0154par0287	Complete it, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0153par0288	How many of these trial processes are actually -- it could be a mistake, it could be a flaw, it could be a flaw, but an active trial and investigation into their perpetrators has been conducted, both the administrative investigation process and the judicial trial process have been completed, and we can say that we're dealing with a result of conscience, justice, justice? As long as we can't say so, there is nothing serious about what we say to France; on the contrary, very serious newspapers like Le Monde report on torture claims in Turkey, not even Turkish Foreign Affairs will, not even an approach. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0154par0290	Mr. Rich, I believe you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0155par0293	Mr. President, I salute each and every one of you. As the deputy chairman of the group gives his speech, they say: "The AK PARTY is fair in matters related to itself, and has no interest in justice in other matters, and ultimately has nothing to do with judges and prosecutors, as a result, in a biased situation in the matter of making a trial." To tell you the truth, this is a style that has never been passed by our approach. Why? The reason is simple: we're fighting terrorism. We believe that the threat is not only to the AK PARTY, but to all the political parties in Turkey, but to our citizens, who are targeting the entire country. In fact, we believe that not only Turkey, but in other countries outside Turkey, they are an international terrorist organization that has emerged for their own purposes. And yet, judges, prosecutors, police, whoever they are, 17-25, yes, is a starting point for those who have contact with the people, but these people's actions in Turkey have a 40-year-old past, so we have all the evidence that we have backtracked in all the work we've done, and we've just come up with... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0156par0297	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0155par0298	... that we've been trying to decide over time by considering all the evidence that has arisen during the trial process in more detail, our judicial system. For myself, as a lawyer, I have long followed these judgments, and I see how attentive our judges are. Mr. Secretary is here, and they'll give us more information about this process when it comes to it. This is a matter of Turkey for us; therefore, there can never be a biased approach. I also find it wrong to give a note to Turkey on the subject of Le Monde. There's a lot of newspapers in the world.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0157par0300	Check the prisons, the prisons, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0155par0301	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to finish my statement. I haven't seen that news, so I don't want to mean anything by a story I haven't seen, but instead of blaming each other over newspaper headlines here in the House, we have a lot of possibilities, data, and I find it more accurate, more principled to make a decision about each other. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0158par0304	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0159par0305	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0158par0306	Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0159par0308	Mr. President, I don't intend to prolong the discussion. Thank you, and I totally agree with the assessment of what's supposed to happen, but it's obviously not the case, it's not the case. The prosecutors and judges who have prepared almost all of the proceedings in this parliament have either fled abroad or are now in prison. It's so obvious that when you type it in Google, you can see it, so there's no need for a great search, no big trouble, no known names. Second: So, if there is a consistent, clear attitude about this process here, we can at least make sure that those who do these things are more careful when they're doing this attitude, not more arbitrary. We don't need another sample. Mr. Demirtaş is currently on trial in Sincan, and that is the process of his indictment. The election work, which I did during the election period, which we had met with a hundred people in front of the party office, was punished for opposition. It's a 2911 rally and every town has a one-party rally. I've been in meetings 10 times a day, one of which has been reported by police officers who are currently in prison, the prosecutor has filed an indictment, and the judge has sentenced him. Now all three of them are gone, but the punishment for me stands, and the decisions regarding the continuation of the trial continue with many of our friends right now.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0160par0313	Complete it, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0159par0314	At least, as you say, shouldn't the courts be halted in order to get some accurate, healthy, accurate information and be able to extract it? Article 83 is very clear. The Constitution has set a very clear measure on newly elected lawmakers, on investigations that have already begun, but you ignore this measure, you ignore the Constitution's clause -- I personally don't accuse you, I describe the process of trial -- and the process that started by the peoples continues. And one day, if someone turns around and accuses you of not stopping the process started by the people and doing what they need to do because you're actually involved in the crime, I wonder how you're going to defend it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0160par0316	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0161par0317	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0162par0318	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0160par0319	Let's make sure it's not mutual. I promise you one last time, Mr. Rich. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0163par0322	It's not mutual, but I want to express it. Now I, us, each and every one of us, are part of the judgment, Your Honor. Now, while this is happening, the process of judgment involves steps where what is once done backwards will be reviewed over and over again. If the allegations of this matter are brought before the court, our judges will surely consider them. I find it really unfair to have our judges and prosecutors present in Turkey accused like this. Each of our judges, our prosecutor, has the knowledge to evaluate the evidence as fair as possible.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0164par0324	There's no independent judgment, who are you kidding?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0163par0325	So, please, the approach here, I think it's fair. You mentioned the matter of Demirtaş. So, for example, I sat down again today, and I read this ECHR decision from beginning to end. So this argument of yours doesn't show the truth. Even when you read the ECHR decision, it turns out how real the case is, how real it is.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0165par0327	Oh, come on! Don't do that!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0166par0328	It's a shame!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0165par0329	You're the only one who's got the right law!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0167par0330	You're going to go through all of this during the day, and we're going to be able to talk a lot about it in your conversations, so we'll talk about it when you come back healthier.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0168par0331	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0165par0332	But it's true, your law is towards you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0167par0333	Not at all, the law is all of us.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0168par0334	Thank you, lawmakers. Mr. President... Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0169par0337	I'm sorry, I'll tell you where I am.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0168par0338	No, Mr. Tanal, if you want to take a stand, you need to get into the system.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0169par0339	I'm in the system, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0168par0340	When you get into the system, there's a lot of lawmakers like you in the system.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0169par0341	It's a very important matter, it's relevant; I'm finishing it if you want.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0168par0342	Let's give him a minute, Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0169par0345	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect and respect. Now, in terms of technical law, can we or can we not take an official report from a person who's involved with a terrorist organization and who's in prison? You're an authoritarian public defender, and this is not supposed to be the official document of a terrorist organization member's report. I'm one of the victims of this. I've been given a very comfortable report, and I'm currently in prison as a member of the terrorist organization, but there's been a statement against me about it. So are we going to believe in them or are We not going to make them stand firm? What's supposed to happen is, if we're in the state of law, we need to make it official, we need to review this. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0170par0348	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Coming up next is the speech of Omine Zeybek. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0171par0400	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the personal data protection agency budget in the 2019 Budget Law Proposal Talks. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. The right to protect personal data has begun to be regarded as an advanced and separate rights category, which cannot fit within the limits of privacy. The right to protection of personal data has been part of our Constitution as a constitutional right over time. This right is based on the protection of the person's honor and personality. Dear lawmakers, it is important that social awareness and culture be established at the highest level of protection of individuals' fundamental rights and freedoms of personal data, so that the principles and foundations of protecting personal data are internalised. The implementation of personal data with the law aims to prevent discipline, unlimited and random collection, opening up to unauthorized persons, exposing them or violating their rights as a result of deliberate or abuse. The Institute for Protection of Personal Data organises awareness meetings throughout the country, aimed at raising social awareness, raising awareness, and developing business units on the protection of personal data. Representatives of all our ministries, relevant and related organisations are given trainings on the protection of personal data legislation two days a week. An important step has been taken in raising awareness of the protection of personal data and the development of culture in this regard, and the organisation of the National Ministry of Education Institutes for Education Social Events regulations has been decided to establish a Personal Data Protection Club and to celebrate 7 April as the Day of Protecting Personal Data. Dear lawmakers, the work of the Data Officers Record Information System, which will be kept open to the public under the principles of accountability and transparency, has been completed, and the registration obligation has begun as of 1 October 2018 for data responsible for the criteria set by the Personal Data Protection Board. The institution is heavily addressed with questions, problems, proposals and demands of opinion. In order to provide enlightening information about these matters to our citizens, the Institute for Protection of Personal Data has established an information advisory council under the name Hello 198 Data Protection Line. We see together that the level of public consciousness is increasing as a result of self - sacrificing efforts to preserve personal data. As of late October 2018, a total of 300 applications have been reported and concluded in 194 of these applications, including a complaint of 238, a report of 27/180, a report of data security violations and a demand for information on the complaint. The Institute for Protection of Personal Data also operates internationally. Germany, Austria, Italy and Britain met with data protection authorities, where talks were held. An international organisation for co-operation and sharing information has also been joined by the Organization for International Data Protection and Protection Commissions. Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers are to ensure the privacy of private life and the protection of basic rights and freedoms, to ensure the protection of personal data in our country, and to develop the level of consciousness, which is our primary goal in the Constitution. With its authority from the law, the Institute for Protection of Personal Data has adopted the establishment of an international competitive environment and the establishment of a civic awareness of it. On this occasion, our citizens who were injured in today's train crash have received urgent healings, mercy from God to our dead citizens, patience from their families and relatives, wishing that the budget of 2019 be good for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0172par0408	Thank you, Mr. Zeybek. Aydın MP Reza Posacı is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Possum. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0173par0413	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which is part of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. As I salute the nation of St. Turk and your grand delegation, my hand in Ankara has died in the accident, I pray for God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. As it is known, our two ministries, which have been united under the roof of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, have been enabled to manage the activities and supports single-handedly. The agricultural sector, one of the leading actors on the road map that will lead us to its 2023 goals, 2053 and 2071 vision, is one of the most strategic areas of the 21st century due to increasing population and diminishing resources. In order to have a say in this area, it is necessary to protect existing agricultural areas and use resources wisely at the beginning of what needs to be done. The EC PARTY has taken significant steps to protect agricultural areas since 2002. In this case, we've speeded up the land collection efforts first. During 2003-2017, we increased the collection to 5.6 million hectares of 450,000 hectares in a year between 1961 and 2002. Our goal is to complete the total collection of 14.4 million hectares by 2023. We've secured the total area by declaring 250 large plains of 7 million hectares a site. We're going to raise this number to 300. Again, in 2014, with the amendment to Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403, we signed an important reform by preventing the division of agricultural land through inheritance. In parallel with this reform, the Erosion Fight Action Plan has reduced the erosion-induced soil loss by one-third. In 15 years, we've increased our forest areas by 8 percent. In 2002, we brought agricultural revenues of $38 billion to 280 billion by the end of 2018. Today, at $53.4 billion in agricultural revenues, we are the European 1st. In 2010, we took up livestock as a zero interest loan. So far, we've used over 10 billion TL. In 2002-2017, we increased the number of cattle by 50 percent, the number of small animals by 40 percent. We have restructured the General Manager of the Meat and Milk Association with tasks such as the fluctuation of prices in meat and milk, the removal of negative effects, the protection and increased income of the manufacturer, and the stability of the market. This institution monitors the markets closely and does the necessary interventions on time. We completely removed the VAT (the VAT) from fertilizer and bait, and the removal of the VAT (the 8 per cent) in fertilizer has reduced the total by 23 per cent. We've provided $17.3 billion in diesel and fertilizer so far. We've raised 98 million tons in plant products to 117 million tons. Our support for the feed plants continues to increase. We've paid $4.5 billion in support in the last 15 years. The production of these plants increased from 1.1 million hectares to 2.6 million hectares. In 2002, the support for our farmers increased by 8 times more than 1.8 billion TL in 2002, and total support reached 14.5 billion in 2018. With the budget of 2019, we will raise it to 16.1 billion TL. In the last 15 years, the cash we've paid the Turkish farmer has exceeded 153 billion TL in total. Turkey has increased agricultural exports of 3.7 billion in 2002 to $17 billion in 16 years, which means our exports have increased four times in the last five years. For example, our increase in seed exports has been eight times in the last 16 years, and our export of seeds, which is $136m in 2017, is $120 million in 2002. In 2002, agricultural interest rates were at 59 per cent, while loan rates today reached between zero and 8.25 interest rates.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0174par0424	Finish up, Mr. Possum.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0173par0425	I'm picking it up. As I end my words, I wish that 2009 would be a blessing for our farmers, and that the budget of 2019 would be a blessing. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0175par0429	Thank you, Mr. Possum. Now it's time for Kayseri MP Hülya Nergis. Here you are, Mr. Nargis. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0176par0434	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in 2019. I salute our great nation and your delegation. First of all, I ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives in today's accident, and I ask for patience for their families, and I say, "Get well with our wounded brothers." Today, I'd like to talk about the work that was done during our administration about seeding. One of the strategic elements of agriculture is given in our time of need for seeds. With improved policies and supports, work is done to make this development permanent and sustainable. For the first time in 2005, our producers of certified seed use using certified seed seeds began to receive certified seed use support. In 2006, a rapid development process was launched, with the implementation of Seedification Law 5553, providing discounted investment and business credit opportunities, with support for boosting RD capacity, and with the support of certified seed production in 2008. In the 2000s, there were about 120 seed producers of various species, while the number of companies that produced certified seeds reached 858 companies, including 209. With these developments, the number of species in production has also increased, and as of today, more than 11,000 crops of field and garden plants have been recorded on our national list. As part of certified seed usage support, 1.7 million farmers are paid $1.1 billion to support $2 billion, including the support of certified seed producers, $374m and other replication materials for community manufacturers. As a result of these activities, our exports of seeds, which were $17 million in 2002, increased to $136 million in 2017 by eight times. Our import of seeds was $185m in 2017, while exports were at 31 per cent in 2002, reaching 73 per cent now. Today Turkey is a seed-producing and exporting country and was exported to 79 countries in 2017. Our goal in 2023 is 2 million tons of production, $500 million in exports. Integrated combat projects have been carried out in 21 products in 3.5 million per cent, as part of plant health studies and integrating plant protection products in 2018. The state has to take precautions, but as consumers, avoiding the waste of all kinds of food is the debt of all of us and our greatest responsibility. More than 800 million people in the world are currently starving, and 1.3 million tons of food are being wasted. The fact that so many blessings are going to waste, the growth of population and the rapid decline of agricultural areas, the fact that food transport is getting harder every day... is going to reach about 10 billion of the world's population in 2050. Food needs are increasing day by day depending on population growth. As long as we work with our manufacturers and all the associates of the supply chain and protect our resources, we'll be able to look to the future with greater confidence.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0177par0444	Complete your words, Mr. Nargis. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0176par0446	It's a situation that pleases and pleases us that nearly half of the budget, which is focused on growth, sustainable, is prepared with policies supporting development, is divided into the support of our farmers. The Ministry wishes our budget to bring blessings to our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0177par0449	Thank you, Mr. Nargis. Next up is Antalya MP İbrahim Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0178par0454	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTI group on the budget of the Director General of the Forest, with the respect of the General Assembly and our beloved nation. First, I ask God's mercy to our citizens who died in today's train crash, and to help our wounded with immediate healing. The Director-General of the Forest, where I have served for thirty years and have been honored to be a member, is a hundred and seventy-nine years old institution responsible for providing our country's forest resources with sustainable management and providing resources to the benefit of our nation. The Forest General Directorate has been doing important work for the past 16 years to ensure that the current forests are developed, their efficiency is expanded, and the forests are provided with the maximum use of the products and services provided by the community. Today, as a country, we are one of the few countries in the world to increase the presence of forests. In the last 16 years, the forest has increased our presence from 20.8 million hectares to 22.6 million hectares. 29 per cent of our country's territory is covered by forest. Our goal is to reach 30 percent in 2023. Some 5.2 million hectares of forestry between 2003-2017 were met with 4.2 billion saplings, such as forestry activities such as logging, erosion control, rehab of corrupt forest areas, mera rehabilitation. By the end of 2019, 4 billion 500 million saplings will be met with land. We're world leaders in the fight against erosion. Erosion control has been conducted in 2 million hectares. Under the leadership of our president, the fidans are growing with saplings, and 10 million of our students are being met with 10 million seedlings in 81 districts. Starting in 2008, open spaces, roadsides, schools, hospitals, and health clinics, our graveyards are being planted at great speeds. In addition, 162 million saplings have been distributed to our citizens for free. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've made the forests the engine of rural development. With the 38 action plans we've put into practice, the forest has opened its new revenue doors with revenue-producing planting for our villager. In order to raise and feed our forest villagers where they were born, to keep them alive and prevent migrations, 10 million saplings have been planted in the government's Program, which covers the 2015-2019 and has been established in 3,928 villages in accordance with the action plan of 5,000 Forests. In the last 16 years, we've provided direct support for our forest villager -- OSCE and private wooding loans -- and forestry activities -- labor and subsidies -- for $16 billion. So far, thanks to our support for beekeeping and honey production, 450 honey forests have been established, and our country has risen to the 6th ranking of 2nd in the world in the production of honey. From 2003 to today, 1,328 jobs were established, 141 urban forests were established for the purpose of creating healthy living spaces for our citizens. Dear lawmakers, you have kechin, you have guilt. There is great support for our livestock by giving up your understanding and planning to graze in our forests. For a share of the $115 billion medical and aromatic plant market around the world, forest products out of wood have been increased. In this regard, the Commission for the Protection of Medical and Aromatic Plant Variation has been established in our Veteran Assembly. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we aim to meet our country's need for forest products from local sources through the production of activities such as maintenance and rejuvenation to our forests. In this context, we increase industrial wood production of 14 million cubic metres in 2002 to 25 million cubic meters in 2018 to 29 million cubic meters in 2019 to reduce external dependence in the sector. So it will contribute to our imports being less than $1 billion. Our goal is to meet 100 per cent of the country's consumption by raising production to 32 million cubic metres in 2023. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've accelerated forest cadastro efforts to protect the forest borders and address property problems. Now our forests have deeds. By 2021, we will complete the deed registration procedures, 2/B practices by 2023; by solving property problems, we will be close to the forest villagers, not rivals. Mr. President, as part of the efforts to combat forest fires, we have managed manpower, land and air vehicles from one centre and restored Turkey to a strong structure that can help the surrounding countries in the fight against forest fires at any time.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0179par0473	Here, connect your words, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0178par0474	Thank you, Mr. President. That's how we became the leading country in our territory in the fight against forest fires. With the early warning system we've set up, we've narrowed it down to 45 minutes to 15 minutes to respond to forest fires. In the last U.S. California fire in the world, 65,000 hectares of forest were damaged, 88 people were killed; again, 1,276 hectares of forest were damaged in the fire in Athens, the capital of our neighbour Greece, on July 18, 2018. In our country, 5,384 hectares of forest were damaged in 2018. As part of the work done by the Forest General Directorate, areas damaged by the fire are not allowed to plant and destroy forest existence within the same year. Thank you for your diligent work, from your employee to your officer, from your engineer to your chief of staff, and from everyone who's worked hard. I wish you the best of our budget in 2019, with respect.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0180par0481	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. It's time for the Silver House MP, Jahan Pektaş. Here you go, Mr. Pekstone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0181par0486	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. I salute you. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy and urgent healing for those who died in the train crash in Ankara today. State Water Affairs is one of the country's most radical and largest investors, responsible for protecting, developing and operating water resources. It serves in energy, agricultural services and environmental sectors. The DSI, however, is known as an institution that makes more dams. Our first dam is the Bar-1 Dam, which was opened for business in 1936. Later, 276 dams were built, including Ataturk, Keban and Karakaya Dams. In recent years, 541 dams, particularly the Adnan Menderes, Ermenek and Deeper Dams, have been opened and our number of dams have reached 817. A very important project, the Silvan Dam, along with 83 dams and 510 ponds, is under construction. The dams built are considered to be very purposeful, including hydroelectric energy production, as well as agricultural irrigation, the supply of drinking and use of our cities, and flood prevention. In addition, fish production contributes to the economy. Fish produced in the dams of Torul and Kurds in my hometown of Silver House are exported to Far East countries. Some dams also benefit from our lakes for sport and tourism purposes. In the last 16 years, 534 hydroelectric power plants have been built. In 2003, energy production, which is 26 billion kilowatts per year, was added to 73 billion kilowatts and increased to 99 billion kilowatts. In other words, it was produced in about three to sixteen years of energy produced by 2003. Dear MPs, the DSI projects are projects that start to profit from five to ten years, which play the engine role in the development of our country. In 2007, the Borakka Dam, which ended, paid back its investment in seven years and began to profit. The Ermenek Dam opened for business at the end of 2012 and will pay back its investment in its seventh year. The Deeper Dam, which was produced five years ago, will start profiting in two years. The Ilisu Dam of 1,200 megawatts will be flooded in June and will pay back its investment in four years. The cost of this dam has been reduced by changing the body type. The Yusufli Dam will be 558 megawatts and will pay back its investment in two and a half years, as it is scheduled to be watered down next year, at a height of 275 metres, taking the world's 3rd highest dam. The Yusufli Dam was to be built under a bilateral cooperation protocol; the protocol was cancelled, the national budget was tendered, and the cost was reduced to one-quarter. In this way, many major dams and irrigation projects would be carried out through a bilateral co-operation protocol. The protocols for projects that haven't been launched have been canceled, and our treasure has been freed from a large debt burden of $65 billion. In the past, dams used to be done by the project, the counseling and engineering services by foreigners, and their financing was provided with foreign loans, and the costs of projects were very high. Today all projects of the DSI are made by local consultants, local contractors and our own engineers for much lower costs. What did our ancestors say? The horse, according to its owner, quiches. The point of our planning and dam engineering is very flattering to our country. In many countries around the world, the majority of the executive and technical staff of our companies who build large water projects are engineers raised in DSI. DSI is also a school. The largest water transfer projects in the world have been implemented in the blue tunnel and the GAP. Water was taken from Turkey to the young country, to Cyprus. The use, use, and irrigation need of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was met by the first suspension of pipelines, with a 106km line to cross the sea for 81km. The water of Melen Tea is now flowing from the fountain of Istanbul. The tunnel, built below the Bosphorus 300 feet [300 m], was served in 2012, and the first transcontinental water transfer of the world was made from the Anatolian Side to the European Side. The Ankara Drinking Water Temini Project reached the last 200 meters in Gerede Tunnel, the world's longest water transport tunnel, with a length of 31.5km. We made these proud projects as the EC PARTY led by our President, but that pride belongs to all of us, to our nation. We are a great nation, no project is a dream for us, there is no impossible project for us. I congratulate the DSI General Director and his team, who have carried out all the projects with these feelings and thoughts, and I salute you again with the hope that the budget of 2019 will be prosperous and fruitful.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0182par0498	Thank you, Mr. Pekstone. Now, we're talking about Bursa MP Refik Özen. Here you go, Mr. Caress. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0183par0503	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I speak, I ask God's mercy on our citizens who died in a train accident in the morning, his condolences on their relatives, and our immediate healings on our wounded. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of the meteorological Directorate of 2019. I hereby salute our General Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers continue their service with the 15 district directorates of Weatherology, providing our country and our citizens with great services in a sense of serious duty and responsibility, whose importance is increasingly well understood by everyone. In line with the growing needs of the developing world, the need for meteorological information, products and services has increased, and it is imperative that the information, products, and services be presented to users correctly, reliable and consistently. In this direction the only authority on meteorological services has been structured by consideration of the needs, technological developments and conditions of the day that have been established by the General Directorate of Meteorology since 1937. The Metheorological General Directorate, which meets the demands of meteorological products and services in many sectors, including transport, agriculture, energy, national defence, environmental and urbanism, tourism, health, sports and disaster management, is the high-tech service of its region, whose international relations are strong, leading and respected. The General Directorate of Meteorology operates its network with 1,866 monitoring systems of different types and properties throughout the country to make observations that are the basis of meteorological products and services. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important services of our meteorology General Directorate is the need to inform our people and the concerned as soon as possible about meteorological tipping. Thus, since 1962, the Voice of Meteorology, which has been used to listening to short radio waves, has been broadcast through the FM band, reaching over 60 million audiences with 27 transmitters, providing information on agriculture, forest, water and weather and early warning via satellite and internet. The Web TV was also set up in 2018 to provide rapid and direct access to current, accurate, detailed meteorological information and started testing. One of our institutions, which is actively engaged in the work of reducing our country's dependence on energy and the use of renewable energy sources, is also our General Directorate of Meteorology. Studies on the creation of wind and solar measurement stations and the assessment of measurement data are conducted by the General Directorate of Meteorology and have made an important contribution to the energy sector. The International General Directorate of Meteorology, which is very active, supports countries in the region for climate forecasting as the Eastern Mediterranean climate centre. In 2013, our country was elected to be a member of the Executive Committee for Intergovernmental Climate Services, along with 25 other countries. During this year's second session of the Intergovernmental Climate Services Board, our country has again served as a member of the Committee for Intergovernmental Climate Services for four years. The Black Sea and the Middle East Regional Sudden Early Warning Center, where our country is the regional centre, has been established. The project is attended by Turkey, as well as by the countries of Azerbaijan, Georgia, Bulgaria, Armenia, Syria and Jordan. On the other hand, the Regional Ani-Sonkin Early Warning Project was launched in 2013, when Turkey was the central country of Turkey. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Moldova, Montenegro, Albania, Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia are also participating. In addition, the World Meteorological Organization, the European Centre for Central Timed Weather Possibilities, the European Meteorological Satellites Enterprise, the European Meteorological Benefit Group, and the International Directorate of Meteorology, which is co-operating with international organisations, such as the Limited Area Weather Model Consortium, are working hard to develop bilateral co-operation with international institutions and other countries, and aims to become the region's leading country in meteorology.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0184par0511	Here, complete it, Mr. Özen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0183par0512	Mr. President, I congratulate you once again on the valuable employees of our meteorological General Directorate, who have demonstrated their determination and determination in the work he has done so far. On this occasion, I wish the budget of 2019 to be a blessing and auspicious to our country, and I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0184par0515	Thank you, Mr. Caress. The last word for the AK PARTY Group belongs to Balıkesir MP Belgin Uygur. Here you go, Mr. Uygur. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0185par0520	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. First of all, I ask God's mercy to our citizens who died in the train crash today, and to help our wounded with immediate healing. I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the 2019 budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry Turkey Water Institute. The Turkish Water Institute, whose short name is SUEN, was founded to contribute to the solution of global water issues, to develop new ideas and scientific models in the creation of our country's sustainable water policies and strategies, to organise national and international meetings and educational programmes, to support global cooperation in water, to produce projects related to water policy, to implement and represent our country on the international platform. Mr. President, good lawmakers, because of the growth of populations and global warming in the world, water resources are becoming increasingly low. The issue of water the world is trying to cure is considered as a holistic issue during our AK PARTY administrations. With investments made by our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Turkish Water Institute continues its strategic work on water. A total of 153 billion euros invested by the DSI during our EC PARTY governments. In the last 16 years, 7.668 facilities, Turkey's pride, have been launched. In particular, drinking water is considered one of the most important problems in years to come. For our 81 counties, plans for drinking water action have been laid out. Thus, our cities were planned for 2040, 2050, and even 2071. 4 billion cubic metres of drinking water per year are provided for 46 million people from 236 drinking plants taken into operation. Dear lawmakers, thanks to our country's large projects in the water area, it has become the leader of water in its region, thanks to its growing manpower and vast collection of knowledge. SUEN closely monitors work on water in our country and the world with a team of experts from different disciplines, contributing to strategic planning on water issues, modeling studies and future scenarios, counseling our decision makers. Since its establishment, SUEN has organised training and capacity development programmes for nearly 1,000 water and waste water experts from more than 30 countries from different continents and countries. These include training programmes for Africa, which are also important to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with the support of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency. In the water sector, education has been successful in many different areas, such as planning, basin management, designing and operating of drinking water and waste water treatment facilities, management of subterranean waters, management of drinking water and management of waste water networks. In addition to experts from abroad, important water and sewage management of municipalities abroad are also provided training on various issues, such as water and sewage management. In the past, our country has remained only observer status in water-field meetings, while it has now become the country of authority, which actively participates in international meetings during our EC PARTY governments. SUEN also co-works on water management and technologies with many international organisations such as the United Nations, Islamic Co-operation Agency, D8, World Water Council, UNESCO, OSCE, OECD. The most important international event to be identified in the name of SUEN is the Istanbul International Water Forum, which is held every three years. Participants in the forum are also able to share different views, approaches and experiences, to communicate with other actors in the water sector, to cooperate and to learn about new technologies.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0186par0531	Go ahead, Mr. Uygur, finish your words.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0185par0532	As of January 1, 2019, SUEN will carry out the mission of the Co-ordination Office of the Blue Peace Initiative in the Middle East, a very important structure designed to be a means of peace rather than a source of conflict. The activities of our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, conducted by a small number of staff and a modest budget, have become a respected institution in the world's water sector with scientific studies, analysis, national and regional, global water policies and activities that our country represents abroad. As I end my words here, I wish that our budget of 2019 would bring blessings and blessings to our country and our nation, and I salute our Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0187par0536	Thank you, Mr. Uygur. Dear lawmakers, the talks on behalf of the AK PARTY Group are complete. I will now make a pledge to some MPs who have requested a statement according to Article 60 of the Civil Code. First, Mr. Burcu Koksal...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0188par0542	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've learned from local media representatives that my constituency was burned to death in Dinar district of Afyonkarahisar, where, unfortunately, an elderly woman who struggled to live in a tent, not even a tent. We sat in palaces, and we made bridges, and we made roads, and we gave social aid, and we did so." I address those who boast that their first duty is to carry out the social state and to help our needy citizens: Please prevent such deaths from happening, help people, and do your duty, instead of falling behind the MPs of the ruling party and posing in length. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0189par0546	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. Mr. Kalyoncu...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0190par0549	At noon this afternoon, an explosion took place at the ENER Engineering Chemical Products plant in the İzmir Teleteli Organised Industry District in Menderes district of İzmir. It's been reported that one worker has lost his life, three injured in the current situation. In addition, it was received information that there was a chemical leak after the explosion, and it was later reported that the situation was under control and that the ventilation procedures were ongoing. I wish mercy to the dead, and an immediate healing to the wounded.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0189par0550	Mr. Kemalbay Pekyügü...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0191par0552	Thank you, Mr. President. Nine lives are lost today, and I don't think the criminal is a locomotive, and I think the political power is responsible, and the political power must answer for it, and I say to those who have lost their lives, God have mercy on them. Mr. President, on December 12th, police fired on a vehicle in Ataşehir, İstanbul, where a 17-year-old boy, Jahan Seyhan, died. On the same day, 24 hours later, a child in Diyarbakır, a 25-year-old boy named Arat, lost his life by firing a police bullet at his vehicle, claiming that police had failed to comply with his notice. There are 389 deaths in 11 years, including the police. These deaths can never be judged without these considerations. In order to address these deaths, which are based on the Police Act and the Law of Equality, these laws must be reevaluated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These laws almost allow the police to commit murder. I'd like to point out to the power here that talks about human rights, about reviewing these laws, and about these murders committed by the police. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0192par0558	Thank you, Mr. Eyeball. Mr. Cinisli...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0193par0561	Thank you, Mr. President. I have questions for Mr. Secretary Bekir Pakdemir. In Erzurum, the Red Meat Production and Processing Project has been under way for several years. As a result, the problem of red meat can be solved with a chain of distribution and value. In our city, which is the heart of animalism like Erzurum, but has been hit by your wrong policies, our planned project's budget of 2019 has almost zeroed out. Don't do it. It's been said. Will this vital project continue? When will Erzurum Alvar, Narman Martyrs, He won't say, Hünüsüs, Başköy Dams and Erzurum Saintiye be completed and cannot be finished? Are there animals affected by anthrax quarantines in Erzurum? Were the animals with anthrax imported to Turkey brought in without proper examinations? We all know it's impossible for infected animals to get into the dorms if normal procedure were run. Is it true that our forests will be handed over to the TOKI? Finally, I'd like to remind you that agriculture and animalism are a strategic sector, my compliments. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0194par0567	And now, as chairman of the Turkish Labour Party, I promise Mr. Erkan Prime Minister for three minutes. Here you are, Mr. Erkan Chief.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0195par0570	Thank you, Mr. President. We have been informed that so far, nine of our citizens have lost their lives and 47 of our citizens have been injured in the morning's catastrophe. We, the Labour Party of Turkey, would like to express our condolences to the relatives of those who died, our urgent wishes for healing to our wounded citizens. However, Parliament's duty is not only to offer condolences, but to seek immediate cures, but to provide solutions. This should probably be reminded because it hasn't been for a very long time, and we've had a number of discussions here over the tragedy of our suffering in Chorus, and AKP officials have expressed the same sentences, the same sentences they've made here today. We'll investigate, we'll investigate, we'll investigate, we'll investigate, we'll investigate, we'll investigate, we'll investigate, the people of this country lose their lives. The reputation of the palace is no more precious than the lives of the citizens of this country. I'd like to rephrase that. Today is an important day. At the age of 17, the 38th anniversary of Erdal Eren, who was put to death by Fascism on September 12th, I would like to enter into the agenda by promising that we will continue his determination to fight fascism with respect and love. I would like to personally thank you and all of the vice presidents, all of our friends who contributed in the process. Since Monday, I think we've had a positive contribution to Parliament practice, parties without a group are talking. We think this should be improved because today, when we look at the agenda, for example, there are many agendas such as the Human Rights and Equality Institution, the Justice Department, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. It won't be easy to express our views on all of this, naturally. But if he listens carefully, our friends, I think I've found a way to combine them all. Now, I think the names we're going to read will mean nothing to any of you for the first time: Osman Ceylan, 30-year-old, business machine operator; Turgut Demircan, 52-year-old, Hafriat truck driver; Nurettin Özdemir, 40-year-old truck driver; Ammar Koç, 23, Syrian; Mehmet Aytac, 36, Erganili, father of 2 children; Genghis Aydoğan; İbrahim Indoyer, 43-year-old; Ismet Atmaca, Horasanian; Shevki Shisik, truck driver; Aliak, 35-year-old, Salon, 35-year-old, Giran, Girdalun; Mehmet Aytaç, 36-year-old, Erganili, 2-year-old, 2-old father; Mehmet Aydogan; Mehmet Aydogan; Ibrahim Bakar, 43-year-year-old; Ibrahim Bakn; Ian; Ibrahim Kakan; Ibrahim Bakn, 43; Ibrahim Köran; Şak, Hoşak, Hoşik, Horikik, 35; Şik, 35, 35-year-year-year-year-year-Shan, 35-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-old; Al-year-old-old driver; Alidal; Al-Sal; Al-Sal; Al-Sal; Al-Sun-Sun-Sal; Al-Sal; Al-Sun-Sal; Aliak; Aliak; Al-Sun-Sun-Sun-Sun-Sun-Sun-Sun-Sun-Sun-Sun-Sun-Sal-Sal-Sal-Sal-Sal-Sal; Al-Kal-Kal; Al-Kal; Al-Kan-Kan-Kan; Al-Kal-Kal; Al-Kan-Kan-Kan-Kan-Kan-Kan-Kal; Al-Kan-Kan; Al-Kan-Kal-Kal-Kal-Kal-Kal-Kan-Kal-Kan-Kan-Kan-Kan; Dear friends, these names you've never heard of are just a few of our fellow workers who died in the construction of the third airport in the business killings.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0196par0578	Go ahead, Mr. Head. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0195par0580	Other than that, according to official figures, 27 of our fellow workers have lost their lives, and the number is much greater than the number of airport workers. You've never heard of them, but there are names we've all heard of: Mehmet Nazif Günal, 70 years old, head of the Mapa Holding Board of Directors, $1.7 billion in wealth; Chairman of the Executive Board of Nihat Özdemir, Limak Holdings, $1.7 billion in wealth; President of the Kolin Construction Board of Directors, the company's turnover of $1.5 billion; President of Orhan Cemal Kalyoncu, Kalyoncu Construction Board, $750m; President of Mehmet Cengiz, Genghis Holdings Holding Board of Directors of Directors, has lost its assets over $650mmm euros in taxes. Projects he took on during the AKP period are famous projects that we all know about, including the third airport to return to the labor cemetery, the environmental enemy Karabiga Termic Plant, the Hasankeyf Ilisu Dam, which flooded history. Now, you kill trees, kill animals, kill workers because you're going to build the third airport. The workers sweat and value this country, create it, and die, the bosses add a fortune to their wealth, and the power puts it in the air. I'm saying there's no talking about the budget or the human rights or the environment or the equality or the justice of this painting without being asked to account for it. I thank you for your word, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit03spe0197par0586	Thank you, Mr. Chief. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0197par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 The commission is in place. There will now be talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. The first word for the group belongs to İzmir MP Murat Çepni. Here you go, Mr. Chepni. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0198par0056	Thank you, Mayor. The General Assembly, our dear people, first of all, my condolences to the relatives of the people we lost in the train crash, and to the wounded, and to the immediate healing. Of course, as a result of this murder, grief statements are inconclusive. The budget debates we're having are happening at this very moment. We're dealing with an economic model that builds itself on the exploitation of work, rising over human corpses. We're actually doing our objections with this logic, and we're developing our reviews on it. For days now, under the roof of this House, we've been arguing, fighting for the interests of the people, not for the royal dynasty and a handful of investors, but for the interests of the people. Outside, they fight to save their villages, their streams, their forests from corporations, the Aydıns, the Izmirites, the Şırnakns, the Thracians, the Black Sears, the Artvins, the Classites. Millions of workers continue this struggle in factories, businesses, such as Flormar, Tarish, Superpak, Cargill, and TOKI workers. We wish and salute all our comrades who resist, the workers who fight. We'll always be there for them. We know that this struggle is the struggle of two separate civilizations, two separate classes, two separate philosophy of life. Capitalist imperialism on one hand, freedom, equality, democracy and socialism on the other; fascism on the other, a pluralist, liberal, ecologist philosophy in harmony with nature. That's why, despite all your pressures, your arrests, your tortures, your lies, these people don't bow down. Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen Yüksekdağ, Sırrı Süzyya Önder, İdris Baluken, Gültan Kışanak, Sebahat Tucson, and dozens more of our deputies, our co-chairs, our party members; Travelers, their mothers of Saturday, Peace Mothers do not submit; their beloved Leyla Güven, who is on the 36th day of the hunger strike today, does not bow down. The budget is not just an economic plan, it's basically a political plan. So in order for the Black Sea to be built, for the Green Road Project to be built, for the Black Sea to be converted into concrete, this government needs war so that Aydın, Ege Τ, can be converted into JES garbage. And this budget debate is exactly the result of this war policy. So all of these policies need war to come to life; the masses need to be exploited, exploited by nationalism. Our objection is essentially, that's exactly what it is. The background of the time we live in is the crisis of capitalism. The global crisis that broke out in 2008 spreads resistance and strikes against the austerity measures of the ruling classes. Even a report by the IMF, one of the most important institutions of global capitalism, in 2016, says the neoliberal policies that were implemented from the beginning of the 1980s were flawed. Neoliberalism, which doesn't bring growth and deepen inequality, does nothing but create great natural destruction all over the world and prey on laborers. There's nothing in this budget except to intimidate workers, oppressed people, women, ecology fighters. This is a threat budget. This is exactly why you look at the action of the yellow vests in France and remember the trip and attack the Travelers. Yes, the Travel Rebellion was against your policies, and new Travels are on their way, so continue to be afraid. In 2018, you increased your share of defence and security by 40 percent to about 92 billion TL. For 2019, you increase these numbers by 21 percent to about 111 billion dollars. This is the declaration of our declarations of war, the government of war, the budget of war. This budget, prepared by the court dynasty, is not for labour, it does not see the labourer, it does not see the poor; it is for the employer, capital, and the oppressor; it does not budget social gender; it does not favour human rights, it does not favour equality. The solution to the Kurdish problem is not democracy, freedom, peace. There is no agricultural production or support in this budget. He's not for the farmer. He's for the merchant. The children who don't read the Qur'an are with the demons. About a tenth of the budget for the Diabetes Works is not spent on protecting the environment. The budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, which will be used in 2019, is more than 4 times the budget of $2 billion,544m. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's budget of $2 billion and $573 million is not even a quarter of the Diet budget. But the climate crisis will save us from the rain prayers of imams with such twisted ideas. But in this budget, it will protect trees, forests, and there is no measure to reduce fossil fuel use and emissions released to slow global warming by reducing pollution of soil, water, seas, rivers, lakes. The 2018 report by the Intergovernmental Climate Change Panel (United Nations) shows that the climate crisis created by capitalism has left the world in the face of extinction. However, companies and governments avoid taking responsibility for the climate crisis. They want to put the bill of the climate crisis on poor people and working classes. According to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism data, from time to time, pollution in the air breathed in Turkey can rise up to 9 times its normal value, but this government insists on maintaining an energy policy based on coal, fossil fuels, so that only its supporters can gain more money. For this policy, hundreds of miners were drawn into Soma, Ermenek, Elbistan, Şırnak, Zonguldak, and were slaughtered, as well as workers and nature. The government boasts about doing high, big projects, it's its greatest prestige, but every big project it does, people shrink, human rights shrink. As their buildings grow, death increases, people shrink. For years, the AKP has followed a policy that has been unplanned by the lie and is looking out for the interests of companies. Energy demand is not planned for environmental and social interests. Energy investments are based on the interests of capital groups, not on society, but solely on the purpose of maximumising their earnings. You've even changed the practice of summer winter hours to increase private companies' sales and revenues, to encourage demand to keep high demand forecasts, so you've created an economic cost of $2.8 billion. You're very smart. The ten-year demand forecast, dated December 2017 and included the period 2018-2027 of Turkey's Electric Messages Corporation, acknowledges that annual demand increases will occur in an increasing trend. The ministry, however, exaggerates the estimates of demand for private capital companies' investments. Nevertheless, we still need energy. It's called, energy is being told that we need to get rid of external dependency, and dozens of HES, GES, RES, JES projects are being prepared and done. You're trying to build nuclear and thermal power plants... despite news that the producer has abandoned the project. However, there's only 50 percent chance of saving when the current transmission and distribution are resolved. But the risk of a nuclear plant for power is this: is it possible that millions of people are going to explode and die? He sees it as a risk, the trees that have been cut down, the agricultural areas that aren't too much of a problem for them. In our country, three to four times the size of forest areas destroyed by fires are destroyed by projects such as roads, electricity, transport lines, HES, RES, mines, dumps. The forest area, which was destroyed by fire from 2004-2017, was an average of 8,420 hectares, while the average amount of forest area, which was destroyed by projects mentioned in the same years, was 28.557 hectares. You can't pay the price for the forest massacres if you plant billions of saplings because it takes thirty-forty years for a plant to become a tree, but it's said we only have twenty years left to survive the climate crisis, maybe less. To make a few companies rich, stop making HES in Aydin, because there is no need. Give up the nuclear power in Akkuyu and Sinop, because there is no need. Give up the HESEs in the Black Sea because there is no need. Don't open the northern forests to rain any more because there's no need. Do not make termites in Eskişehir because there is no need. Know that even if you do not give up, we will always be with you from Edirne to Artvin, from İzmir to Şırnak. We will put on the spirit of the trip, and fight against the spirit of the yellow vests, and raise a new struggle against your capitalist order. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0199par0071	Thank you, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0200par0072	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0199par0073	The second statement is from Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0200par0075	I had a request.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0199par0076	I wish you were on time, Mr. Rich, but after I called the speaker, you asked for word.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0200par0077	I pressed it, I pressed it on time, but you didn't notice.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0199par0078	I'll give it to you again. If you'd like the speaker to speak, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0200par0079	Mr. President, it's not fair to press the speaker as soon as it's over.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0199par0080	No, it doesn't work there, Mr. Rich, I just see it, so...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0200par0081	Yes, but, you know, I mean, you shut up and I'll talk to her. In a manner of speaking, I felt the need to do so in a kind way.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0199par0082	Okay. And since I can't see it, it's time to make a promise, and it's just been burned.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0200par0084	No, I hit it in a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0199par0085	Okay, Mr. Rich, I'll give you my word in a moment.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0201par0086	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm speaking today on the Justice Department budget. We know that justice isn't just an issue that we're talking about here today, that since the existence of humanity, many philosophers, many people have spoken, expressed their thoughts. And maybe we're not going to consume it here today, it's not going to be consumed, but this mechanism, Parliament, is exactly where we're going to talk about it. In that sense, the government will react to every criticism, and I think we'll be more happy if it shows the will to resolve some problems within the framework of criticism, thinking about how much power the opposition is, how much resolution and unifying power it is. Because we don't, right now, in Turkey, belief in justice, in the judiciary is down to 20 percent. Again, Turkey is the 101st among 113 countries in the rule of law, according to the International Research platform World Justice Project 2017-2018 Report. We know there's a reason why this justice mechanism is seen as so disreputable by society. And that -- as we say so much -- is now being used as an instrument of imposed power's own politics on society rather than the mechanism of justice. It's not only applied to political personalities -- I'll give them to you in a moment -- it's unfortunately being used as a stick of justice for everyone across the new regime, against the new system, which the government wants to implement in the framework of political, ideological thinking. We see this in cases of women, we see this in cases of child abuse, we see examples in cases of lawmakers and politicians on trial. Today is the second day, Mr. Demirtaş's hearing took place in Sincan. Guys, I wish lawmakers from the ruling ranks were in the courtroom and saw the state of that courtroom. Dear friends, have you ever wondered why in history the goddess of justice is a woman? But right now, all the courts are being judged from a man's perspective, designed from a man's point of view, and with that power, there's constant opposition, constant opposition, and punishment. As I said, there was a reason why the goddess was a woman, the goddess of justice, because women had a conscience, a fair point of view. And again, his eyes were closed, my friends, not the eyes of justice now; from the political point of view of the person opposite him, whether he was on the side of power or against it, the tape in that eye becomes transparent or blind. Unfortunately, we're in a situation like this, and that's how the trial ends. Like I said, it's not just political. Look, especially in women's cases... we read in the press today, there are women's cases in the press every day. She was raped, but at 23 p.m. You went out on the street at 00. The accused was given a discount, and the Supreme Court approved it. So, how do we trust this woman to go to that courtroom, or how do we go to complain, or how do we provide equality of men and women or freedom of women in this country? With this justice, from this point of view? We need to think about it and focus. Again, for example, in terms of juvenile cases: a 3.5-year-old boy has been forced to explain his experiences in the courtroom over and over again. And this child, abused by his father, was forced to testify in the presence of his father, a 3.5-year-old boy. This is the state of our, unfortunately, of the justice mechanism. The president of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation, which he must take a stand against, is using the terms of divorce terrorism in terms of divorces. Dear friends, are we aware of how broad and uncompromising this concept of terrorism is? Are we aware of how everyone is being terrorized in this country? Is the last place we came from interest terrorism to economic terrorism, peace terror is divorce terrorism? If the president of an organization responsible for equality and human rights says this, we all know what kind of attitude the courts will take, what kind of view we'll be facing in public. As I said, of course, politicians are most affected by the lack of independence and neutrality of this justice. You know, the European Court of Human Rights has recently made a decision. Here, on this bench, our friends have spoken a lot, but once again, the European Court of Human Rights decisions are binding on Turkey, and according to the 90th Amendment of the Constitution, the Constitution of the 80 coup, which we often criticise, according to the 90th Amendment of the Constitution, are above internal law. When internal law and international contracts clash, international contracts are valid. There has been a change in the Constitution of Parliament, and I do not recognise the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. He said, "I do not recognize the President of this country." He said, "I do not recognize the Justice Department of this country." What kind of independent, impartial judgment is that? Can there be such a sense of justice in a country like this? And immediately after that, not only did the European Court of Human Rights not enforce it, the sentences of Mr. Demirtaş and Sırrıyya Önder have been given by jet speed and instruction. Dear friends, as I said, if you don't trust the judiciary in public right now, let's not question it in society, let's question it in ourselves, so there's something really wrong. Look, I'm not talking about law, I'm talking about justice. You can make laws here. The day after tomorrow, no food is allowed. You say, "It's forbidden, but it's not fair, but it's not legal, it can be legal." You have this power, but it's one thing to be fair, to defend the principles of the law. At the moment, unfortunately, in Turkey, the palaces, whose name is justice, are trying to ensure the court's justice. Not the palaces of justice, but the court justice is in Turkey, and we, we know, will continue to resist here and outside. Of course, this issue of justice continues not only until it's punished, but also in prisons. Dear friends, right now there are hundreds of patients in prisons, hundreds of patients, and even though we express it every time, they're treated as if they don't exist. When you say no, it doesn't go away, funerals come out of prison. We've given dozens of examples from these platforms. You say you build beautiful prisons. For one thing, it's good news to open a prison in a country that shows how justice is already brought near. But besides, we've seen what's going on in those prisons in Tripoli Prison.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0202par0096	That's a lie, that's a lie; I'm a Tripoli MP, that's a lie.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0201par0097	In Tripoli Prison, they were transferred from Tekirdağ to Tripoli, where people were forced to stand tallies, to search naked, and to be beaten.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0202par0098	It was the provocation of the PKK, the provocation of the terrorists.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0201par0099	Besides, the Van Baros sent an independent delegation, this independent delegation identified, friends, identified, but in spite of that, no steps were taken, even though we sent it to the Ministry.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0202par0100	I'm an MP for Tripoli, I've studied the subject, it's not what you know, it's a provocative approach.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0201par0101	Dear friends, you can't get out of this by calling it a lie. Truth, truth, the sun is not covered with clay. Let us see some truth, and let us act in truth. Dear friends, this is the last time I'm going to say it and I'm going to tie it. I'm going to talk about law enforcement again. Layla Güven Hakkari MP and DTK Co-Chair have been on hunger strike for days. One member of this Parliament is acting as a hunger strike in Diyarbakır, to help Turkey return to fair, democratic principles two and a half years ago, so that it can be improved at least a little bit, so that the resolution and peace can rise, so that the isolation over Mr. Abdullah Ocalan can be lifted there.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0203par0103	Still count, count, count...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0204par0104	Terrorist Ocalan, terrorist. Ocalan is a terrorist, a baby killer, a bastard.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0205par0105	Shame on you! When you're supposed to say "baby killer," you're saying "think." Aren't you ashamed!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0206par0106	Dear friends, his hunger strike is an invitation to the law, look, an invitation to the law. There is no way that a person in the Turkish legal system could be prevented from interviewing his lawyers for days, years, with his family. I'm talking about civil law, I'm talking about the penal code, I'm talking about the penal code, and I'm talking about the Constitution. According to this, you can't forbid a person from seeing their lawyers for years, seeing their parents, communicating with the outside, that can't happen. And right now, Leyla Trust invites you from there to go back to the law, to apply the principles of law, to enforce your laws...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0205par0107	You don't know the law.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0206par0108	...but he invites again in Turkey to an environment where democracy, peace, equality and freedom can be spoken again, dear friends. Now we're talking about a reality. Two and a half years, look...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0207par0109	The law doesn't invite you to the law.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0206par0110	From the day the isolation began, we all witness that war is deepening in this country, that conflict is deepening, that we all see. Turkey's economic crisis also comes from Turkey's international foreign policies, as well as the deepening of rights violations in Turkey is actually linked to this isolation. We're all on lockdown, we're all under lockdown here, and there's only one way, dear friends. I'm talking about an experienced way, and I'm talking about a way that can't be denied, that can't be ignored. From that point on, we also renew our call to the request of Leyla Güven, that this Assembly should not be overheard, that its value and importance should be understood, that it should be acted in this framework and, as I say, act within the framework of the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0208par0113	Thank you, Mr. Basian.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0209par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0210par0115	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0211par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0212par0117	Mr. Rich, I'll give you my word. Get into the system, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0213par0119	Sir, I'm in the system.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0212par0120	I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0214par0123	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, I would like to present both at the same time, since I'm going to request a statement after Mr. Basian's speech. In his speech, Mr. Chepni says we need war. I think they need war because we don't define it as war. Those who find terror less worthy of war for our country. There's an ongoing war on terrorism in our country under international law, which continues in all areas. He's fighting his tongue... and we're against being called Mr. Ocalan. Fighting language, fighting politics, but whoever draws a gun, of course, fighting law and fighting what must be done in exchange for this weapon. That's the way we prefer, fighting the law. I want to underline that. Now, Mr. Basaran is a lawyer, and he's making a statement to us in an interesting legal contradiction. He talks about law when it suits him...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0215par0127	Go ahead, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0214par0128	When the law comes, it talks about incoherence, but when it comes to law enforcement, it's fair practice. Now, there are acquittals made in our courts concerning Judeatin Demirtaş, and I would like to give you an example. Midyat Heavy Penal Court, İstanbul Anadolu 4. Asliye Criminal Court, İstanbul Anadolu 66 again. Main Criminal Court, 10. Asliye Ankara, there are acquittals here. There are further decisions regarding the postponement of prosecution. Ercish 1. As a matter of fact, there are decisions to postpone prosecution in Adana, and in Silopi, and in Siirt. When it's looked at like this, nothing that's in their favor is spoken on this bench, but it's a tremendous claim of unlawfulity about everything they think they're up against. If you want the European Court of Human Rights' decision on Demirtaş, let's make a single agenda, and let's study pencils here. When it's looked at, this one will be seen. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that there is no objection to the indictment of Demirtaş.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0215par0131	Pack it up, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0214par0132	Yeah, I'm tidying up. It has been highlighted by the court's decision that he encouraged terrorism, praised it, called it out to the street with its tweets, encouraged terrorism. So, if we're lawyers, like this cat lung thing, if we're behind something, if we're going to take refuge in law, let's all stand behind the law, but there were talks yesterday, and I want to underline that no one has the right to compare the terrorist incidents in the region to Palestine, to Ireland, and to drown Turkey in a war environment. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0216par0136	Thank you, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0217par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0218par0138	Mr. President, I'd like word on 69.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0216par0139	Mr. Nightingale... I'll give you my word, Mr. Turkkan. Let's turn on Mr. Nightingale's microphone, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0219par0144	Mr. President, we've come out of a more recent discussion as of yesterday. Yesterday, it was very provocative, and it was the constitutional presence of the Republic of Turkey, its common values, and its losses, its sufferings in the fight against terrorism that has been going on so far, that a speech against the values of the Turkish nation, in a full agitation, as if it had never existed, has created the reaction of other political parties in parliament, as well as the National Movement Party, and we have shown our strongest reaction. Now, we don't want to speak in a loud voice again or in a different way, but there were some things that were said here yesterday, and at this point we demanded a high sensitivity.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0216par0146	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0219par0147	On the parliamentary stand, before this nation's eyes, the nation has vowed to make the Republic of Turkey vomit blood, the nation has pledged to divide the country, and it is not something that we can and will never accept that the state of Turkey is being blessed in this most glorious chair, in which many civilians are fighting for independence, freedom, division, and the blood of many innocents. A great deal may arise because the same understanding continues today. In the course of these talks, the state of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0216par0149	Complete, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0219par0150	...and the public insult of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0216par0152	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0220par0154	Mr. President, yesterday we had a tension in the House on the same matter. Later, after Mr. Parliament Speaker invited us to the rear, the HDP Group said at a meeting of its deputy presidents that these remarks disturbed the entire Assembly, that this statement had to be dropped, but that it needed to start with a warning sentence in the first place. We thought we'd closed this case after this warning sentence, but it turns out this isn't the end of it. I say from here, I say to the entire assembly: From now on, we are willing not to speak to the head of Neþe Teacher, Aybüke Teacher, Sait Teacher, or Necmettin Yilmaz, who went to his home in 2017 on his way to the Silver House.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0216par0157	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0220par0158	From now on, no one in this House can say to this terrorist leader. No terrorist organization in any country's Assembly is called the leader of a terrorist organization. He's not lying down as president of the Seriophile Society, he's not lying down in a car accident; he's lying down as the killer of murdered babies. In what country is it considered legitimate to call the murderer of the murdered babies? But the fault lies in a statement made in 2013. In 2013, Mr. Bkent Arinc said that we had lifted the bans on Abdullah Ocalan. And that's where we came from, sadly, and that's where we came from.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0221par0159	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0220par0160	It's relevant.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0221par0161	Not at all!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0220par0162	Yes, I'm afraid it does.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0221par0163	No, sir, it's a judgment call.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0220par0164	I wish I didn't, but I'm afraid it does. No terrorist organization's leader can be called the leader of this Parliament! No matter what it's called.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0222par0166	Complete it, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0220par0167	I'd like to warn you once more about using a more careful language. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0223par0170	President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0224par0171	Mr. Bilgen, do you have any requests?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0225par0172	He's driving.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0223par0173	I mean, I'm on both sides, so...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0224par0174	You want me to promise you a place?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0223par0175	There's teasing, I'm picking on...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0226par0176	Who picked on who, what happened?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0224par0177	Come in, Mr. Basian.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0227par0178	There's no such procedure!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0228par0179	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0229par0182	Guys, calm down, this is Parliament, not like this!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0230par0183	You can't call the head of a terrorist organization in Parliament. This isn't a DTK convention, Parliament.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0231par0184	In Parliament, you do not refer to the PKK (PKK) as the PKK (PKK) person.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0229par0185	Guys, you're gonna listen. Shut up. Wait a minute, guys...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0232par0186	How does he get on the stand?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0233par0187	There's no such procedure under the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0234par0188	Dear friends, dear MPs, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0235par0189	Friends, number one, we have been accused of twisting the European Court of Human Rights. Let's talk about that decision together, yeah, let's make an agenda. We'll download a research proposal, and if you agree, I don't think so -- we'll set up a research commission, we'll even investigate, we'll talk in detail. Not a single sentence, as you claim.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0233par0190	It's all there.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0235par0191	The clearest sentence is: Evacuate immediately. This is clear...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0236par0192	You're used to lying!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0235par0193	It's obvious, let's not twist it here.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0236par0194	You're used to lying!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0237par0195	How many pages, how many pages is the court order?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0235par0196	Secondly, dear friends, this seat of the House is the one that should be most free.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0238par0197	No unlimited freedom!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0239par0198	I thought you weren't free!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0235par0199	If I'm not going to talk here, where am I going to talk?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0239par0200	I thought you weren't free!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0240par0201	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0241par0202	Congressmans, please... Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0242par0204	Friends, the term I just used was adopted within the framework of freedom of expression by the European Court of Human Rights, by the Supreme Court's decisions. Now, even the courts...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0243par0205	No, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0242par0206	Yes, I can show you the decisions.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0243par0207	No, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0244par0208	You're lying!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0242par0209	Now, this is an insult to the entire Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0243par0210	You can't use a phrase like that.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0242par0211	That's not what you'd call it in Congress.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0245par0212	You're insulting everyone.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0243par0213	I'm telling you, once again, you're not going to be able to use this expression, as long as you're using it -- on this stand -- we're going to keep not using it. Let's go!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0246par0214	Please listen. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0247par0216	All groups need to react to that, folks. If we're not going to talk here, where are we going to talk? People vote for us to talk here, not to threaten each other, to wave fingers.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0248par0217	I thought you said you couldn't talk, that you weren't free.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0247par0218	Ma'am, come here...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0249par0219	Nobody voted to brag about murderers.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0248par0220	I thought you weren't free!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0247par0221	Ma'am, you're always...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0248par0222	The more you lie, the more you...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0250par0223	Mr. Eronat, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0247par0224	Look, you're a war beater, and you're getting political and economic routs over this war.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0250par0225	Mr. Başaran, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0247par0226	Shut up and sit down, and if you've got a lot of heart, come talk from here.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0251par0227	Mr. President, he has no right to speak like that on the stand. He has no right to speak from the stand like that.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0247par0228	Friends, this council chair should be the freedom seat, and let's see what this community is going through right now.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0252par0229	I thought you said you weren't free...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0247par0230	These people are crying blood, blood!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0253par0231	He's bleeding because of you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0254par0232	Why don't you tell us about the blood spillers, then let's hear it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0247par0233	We're talking about budgets, and these people are starving from this war. We all have to figure this out.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0255par0235	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0256par0237	You know, you're not free... you're not free... you're talking shit.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0257par0238	Shut up, will you?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0255par0239	Please, Mr. Eronat, please, Mr. Group Vice President has taken his word. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0258par0243	Mr. President, first of all, it's not right for the clerk to speak in such a manner. Of course, he can speak with words from where he is. Now, I'd like to further state that there's not a single decision that's been finalized regarding the decision of the ECHR. Yes, our Constitution... (Whispers) Would you shut up, please. According to Article 90 of our Constitution...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0255par0246	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please, look, this is your group's deputy president speaking, speaking on behalf of the group, over.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0259par0247	Then shut him up, shut him up!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0255par0248	Mr. Eronat...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0260par0249	There are things that can happen after it is confirmed according to the 90th article of our Constitution. We need to see this: the European Court of Human Rights is different from the way we see it in the judicial system of Turkey or in international law. There is no final decision at this time. The application you're applying for...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0255par0251	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0260par0252	...the court's answer -- you can read the verdict -- because the European Court of Human Rights has not been finalized, and since it itself will object to this decision, we have three months to make our statement, our Ministry of Justice will. As a result, we'll look at the process after it's been finalized. Besides, judgment is shaped by objections. Applying is something else. Look at each verdict, the local court, the Supreme Court... the same goes for international law. To believe that international law is worth more than Turkey is means not to believe in law. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0255par0255	Now, if you'd like to take a moment, Alderman...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0261par0256	Mr. President, there's been a...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0262par0257	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0255par0258	Please, Mr. Eronat, let us rule. You have the right to say according to 60, we give, enter the system. I'm telling you every time, get into the system. 35 MPs like you have entered the system, and when it comes into the system, I give them my word, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0262par0259	But he picked on me. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0263par0260	Who's going to pick on you? Who's going to pick on you?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0255par0261	Mr. Secretary, you have a request.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0264par0263	Mr. President, I want to thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain this decision to the ECHR. First of all, you're not implementing the ECHR decision based on the decision of the ECHR. There are claims as such. What does the ECHR say about this, I would like to make a brief statement to the esteemed General Assembly. In the court's decision, the ECHR objects to the court's decision that the removal of parliamentary immunity is against the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of legal specificity, proportionality, that it is arbitrary, and therefore it is against the law to arrest him. The ECHR finds this objection unacceptable because it clearly lacks endurance. No, there are legal specificities to the rule of law, proportionality has been observed, not arbitrary, arrest is in accordance with the law. The ECHR decides that Turkish court has made complaints that it has made and made a decision that it is against the law. I couldn't access the investigation file because there was secrecy in the file. He's applying for a breach. The ECHR rejects this application again and finds it unacceptable because it is clearly lacking in grounds that it cannot effectively object to the detention decision.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0265par0267	Here's why he calls it "equality," and let's get to that.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0264par0268	So you're...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0265par0269	And we're lawyers because we are.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0264par0270	We're singing the text we translated. You too, get out...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0266par0271	Accepts what, rejects the truth, accepts what?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0264par0272	We'll come up with what you'll agree to.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0267par0273	No, that could happen, so let's cut to the chase.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0264par0274	He's basically reviewing his alleged arrest without suspicion of reasonable crime. There's no doubt about real crime, and he's been arrested. There's a claim. The ECHR is looking at it, essentially looking at it, and the ECHR has determined that the person involved has reasonable suspicion of crime, in a capacity to convince an independent observer of the application's crime. Freedom of expression has been violated. There's a claim, there's objection, there's appeal, there's an appeal to the ECHM. The ECHR says I didn't even need to examine the complaint that freedom of expression had been violated. The claim that Turkey has blocked the right to apply to the ECHR due to an investigation into its attorney. This claim is not taken into account by the ECHR, as Turkey has demonstrated its obligations due to the contract. The charge that the Constitutional Court has not conducted a swift judicial audit on the examination of detention is not valid, and the contract has not been violated, he says. The ECHR determines that arrest is a political goal for the continuation of detention on long, insufficient grounds, a violation of the right to free elections and the aim of restricting freedom of political debate due to failure to participate in parliamentary studies.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0268par0277	After that...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0264par0278	Look, if you consider an arrest justified as an ECHR, there is a reasonable crime in place of arrest. If you say that this arrest was for political reasons, you can't say that. Therefore, such a thing can never be accepted. The ECHR has determined that the arrest is justified on reasonable suspicion of crime. Of course, it is not acceptable for him to say about this matter because of the political reason. There's a trial going on that's still in trouble at the time. Internal law is built without being consumed. Thus, the ECHR has found that this arrest in Turkey has been brought to justice by the Turkish judiciary and we are already reviewing it in its other dimensions. That's the point. So that's what we're doing. I'd like to report to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0269par0280	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Now it's time to take the stand, Deputy Omer Faruk Gergerlioğlu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0270par0329	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0269par0330	Here you go, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0271par0332	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my words will be more directed at the Minister of Justice because we've been trying to reach him many times and we can't reach him. Now, we found him at the House today, and I want him to listen to me very carefully. I don't see him as a very lucky minister because he's a member of a party called justice but not justice, and he's also a minister of a ministry called the Ministry of Justice, but I'm afraid it's an unfair ministry that does what he does. Why? I'll prove it. Now, we, on the Commission, have delivered our complaints to Mr. Justice Minister on many matters. A month and a half later, he didn't answer verbally, he should have answered in writing, and he didn't answer in writing. What did we ask? We've got pregnant prisoners. About all this...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0272par0336	Look this way. Look this way.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0273par0337	Are you going to decide which way to look? The preacher's talking, he's gonna talk about making it work, of course. Let him look the other way, dear! That's it!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0271par0338	We have an application for the Board of Judges and Prosecutors regarding pregnant prisoners. We applied on August 1st, and there's not a single answer from your board of judges and prosecutors. Illegally, pregnant people are being arrested; 5275-Madde 16/4. So if HSK won't even answer a question in this country, where are we gonna go? You're a member there. Besides, we've already submitted applications to you about prisons.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0274par0340	Mr. Faruk, where's the sentence in case those who are pregnant are arrested or not arrested?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0271par0341	5275-Madde 16/4, please check there, you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0275par0342	Not mutually, you address the General Assembly, Mr. Gergerlioglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0271par0344	Now, we've asked for a visit over and over for six months, petitioning for intellectuals and former HDP MPs, who are responsible for prisons, but are not even responding positively or negatively to petitions by denying our constitutional rights. Where's this? Dear friends, we're asking him for an appointment again, and he hasn't given us an appointment for a month to ask. Look, it's not just about me, it's about all of you. Look, all the party deputies have filed 294 questions motions for five and a half months. Do you know how many were answered? One hundred The answer is comedy, statistics are asked, and look at this website for statistics. It's called the answer. I mean, I'm really sorry about that. Also, another scandal, which I brought up in the General Assembly the other day. Mr. Secretary, you have an act, you have dismissed the London counsel for justice, you know. I asked you on Monday as a written question motion, so please answer it. Because, look, I brought back this document, friends, in the case of the Department of Justice, Foreign Relations and the General Directorate of the European Union, Akin Silk, sent a document to the Westminster Court. This is a very serious document. He won't come out of the ministry. You have an antenna, you have a seal, and you have a UYAP code. It won't come out anywhere else. However, you sent this document saying that there was a fair trial in Turkey, and the Westminster judge agreed, and you refused this document because you thought that many people would be released and acquitted in Turkey after the adoption, and you said: "Londra's Attorney of Justice sent it to the magistrate of Westminster from WhatsApp. Can such a document be sent to the judge from WhatsApp, such a serious, only a document from the Ministry of Justice? Dear friends, there were 3,000 suspects in the state's attorney's office in 2006, and right now -- the AK PARTY Government, 2018 -- 12 million suspects are being investigated. That's the kind of country we've become. Right now -- I just told you -- 743 babies are in jail illegally. 72 pregnant and breast-feeding women in a law-breaking, illegal prison. Hundreds of people stay in solitary cells. There's a place called Sünger's room. There's no telling what it's doing here. There are allegations of assault by prison officials. There's a lot of neglect about health. Right now, look, we're talking about prisons with 50,000 more. 50,000 more people because there is no justice in Turkey, and anyone who wants to take advantage of freedom of thought is being thrown directly into prison. There's 50,000 extras, and there's a lot of health problems in prisons. People are lying on the floor. I talked to dozens of people lying in front of the bathroom. I'm following them one-on-one. Dear friends, do you know who has three floors of bunk beds in prisons? The increased capacity of a thousand people is Kandira Prison. How much is it? 1,500 people. Since I've been keeping a close eye on the state of many prisons, I'll give you, look, names. Late shipments are being made. People want a transfer over and over, and the shipments are delayed.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0276par0352	Here, finish your words, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0271par0353	In Malatya Prison, Medeni Arifoglu, a patient with liver transplants, 19 medications a day was transferred late, when his appendix burst, but it was discovered that he was in intensive care, barely escaped in a month and a half. Right now, kidney cancer cannot be transferred to the Turgut Özal Medical Center because there is no prison ward from this person and Malatya Prison because there is no prison ward. He's a very heavy patient, he needs surgery as soon as possible, but this time he got up and was sent from Malatya to Adana. It's such a scandal, it's so irresponsible that he doesn't know there's no prison ward in the hospital he sent, and he's not at Balcali Hospital. In Turkey, really, there are very few prison wards in hospitals; there are only one in Ankara, and there are not many medical schools, dear friends. There are only eight doctors in the Justice Department staff, 471 doctors coming from the outside -- carrying water. Look, there's a lot of cases. Deniz Hakan Hen filed 45 petitions and failed to make the transfer, and found out that he had stomach cancer when he went to the hospital in the 45th. Nesrin Youngosman died of a very simple, treatable disease, unfortunately, due to late delivery.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0276par0356	Connect your words, Mr. Gergerlioglu, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0271par0357	Again, there's a communication card, and a lot of letters don't arrive on time, or they're returned. There's a new set of appliances; people can only bring the dress they bring from the store to the prison, not the dress in their homes. Three times more expensive canteens, I'm afraid. Transplants are a huge problem. Maybe it's an inadequacy because there are 50,000 excesses and people have to go to remote provinces, to another remote county prison, and therefore there are huge casualties. Again, this year was the year that the history of the Republic of Turkey was the highest during the transports, and it was the year that most people died. Just three or four days ago, a family of five were in a car accident and four of them died, dear friends. Again, summer...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0277par0360	I'm not going to extend any more time, so I'm going to need you to...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0271par0361	I'll give you one last sentence.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0277par0362	No, not anymore, Mr. Gergerlioglu. Here, put him through, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0271par0364	Okay, well, thank you very much. Sivas Prison has not had water for 23 and a half hours this summer... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've had a complaint, a motion to question, an investigation has been launched, but that's when it's over. I'm following a lot of prisons right now, and there's Bünyan, Patnos, who complains that the heat isn't on, and there's a lot of names I can give you, and they're very valuable friends. And again, the last thing we need is a lot of inmates, hundreds of kids, valuable friends around right now. It's a human condition. There's got to be a solution. I now offer you what is the solution to this in terms of justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0278par0371	Thank you, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0279par0372	Mr. President, 30 seconds, a short...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0278par0373	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0279par0376	Mr. President, there have been three hours of interviews with our general director of prisons on behalf of all these alleged issues, all of which have been answered. Our General Manager is here. In fact, none of this is valid.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0280par0377	Don't lie to me!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0279par0378	Look at the Twitter, social media accounts, which are propaganda, and you'll see a lot more, and there's propaganda going on here. I strongly deny it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0281par0380	You're lying, you're lying.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0282par0381	Can you tell me the answers to the question motions?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0283par0382	Here are the papers! Here's the document, the document!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0284par0383	Mr. Bilgen, are you still demanding?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0285par0384	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0284par0385	I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0285par0386	We'll be very happy if you promise Mrs. Oya.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0284par0387	I see, I'll give him my word in a moment, Mr. Rich, Mr. Bilgen. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0286par0390	Mr. President, for one thing, no explanation of special practice, no matter the identity of the victim, no matter the alleged crime, no matter the convicted crime, no explanation for private practice, no explanation for human rights, no explanation for Turkey's internal law or universal law. If there's propaganda, they have mechanisms to eliminate those propaganda arguments, constitutional order and international law. These mechanisms are run, and it turns out that they're propaganda, that they're smear campaigns, that all the public finds out the truth, but it's never acceptable to dismiss complaints about prisons as just a group's propaganda. Look, even the debate in the ECHR decision just now shows that when we read a very clear, very clear text, we can't even reconcile. Yes, about the reasons for the arrests in the Demirtaş verdict, about the reasons for the arrest...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0284par0393	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0286par0394	...Mr. Secretary's reasons are in the decision. But in the end, there's a concept called long imprisonment. There are many lawmakers under this roof; after all, even if you interpret the arrest at the beginning as justified. In part of the text, a long imprisonment and the international standards of this long imprisonment have been adopted in previous judicial decisions in Turkey, and the decision to evacuate is a precautionary decision. You can carry out your eviction order, and eventually you can run your objections again. Now, it is not acceptable not to implement a precautionary decision and to pass it on to the head of the text and present it as an excuse. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0284par0396	Thank you. Now tell me, Mr. Rich. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0287par0399	Mr. President, Mr. Basaran, our Diyarbakır MP has been attacked by a very heavy attack. I demand that you give him the right to an answer first.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0284par0400	I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0288par0401	I got it without teasing.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0284par0402	Come, come, come, Mr. Eronat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0289par0405	There is no such procedure. He did, didn't he? There's a pattern, isn't there?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0290par0406	I don't think it's right, because your friend did it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0289par0407	He was bullied there, too.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0290par0408	It's not true, your friend did it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0291par0409	Please... please... You speak, Mr. Eronat.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0292par0413	Mr. President, dear MPs, born and raised, I'm a man from Diyarbakir. We've lived in terror for 40 years. On January 3, 2008, my son and I lost six children in front of a classroom, one father and seven others. Nevertheless, despite the suffering we suffered, I became one of the people who stood behind the solution process the most because I didn't want the mothers to cry, because behind the doors I stole, I also met the mothers who lost their child in the mountains. That's why I didn't want anyone to cry, that's why I fought. But even so, everyone did everything they could to end the process with the Sur incident. I've been doing politics on the streets of Diyarbakir for ten years, and despite all the threats I've received, I haven't stopped telling the truth either in Diyarbakir or in Turkey. No one can question whether my heart is here or not. And it's clear how much my heart is. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I don't mean to make small talk here, to make Parliament nervous, to disturb the peace of the House, to start a fight, but I'm certainly too mature to express my feelings in my work, I'll tell you that. Why are you talking so much? Guys, I'm not going to let anyone lie on this stand because I want the facts to go through. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0293par0419	Who are you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0294par0420	Thank you, Mr. Eronat. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Yes, it is now Batman MP Necdet Silkface's turn to speak. Here you are, Mr. Silkface. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0295par0472	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute all of you. In fact, the property of this bench is completely constructive, and it becomes an area for the future of Turkey, for democracy, for peace, for peace, for free, for discussion, and those who follow us look forward to it. No one defends death or death on this stand, nor is it acceptable to have a policy fulfilled over blood. All politicians, in order to live better, in peace, we need to continue our best efforts. In today's speech, I'm going to talk more about Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation. Friends, when we look at the concept, it says human rights, it says equality, it says "Turkey" and it says "The new system of presidency" and it's completely changed, it's transformed into a new form. There was a Turkish Human Rights Agency before, it was converted. The system, brought with the presidential system, lacks equality. There are 11 members, 10 of the 11 members talk about men, 1 of them talk about women and equality and talk about human rights. What was the board before? According to the Paris Convention, there should have been more elected from independent NGOs, institutions that work for public or public use, according to the protocol, it should have come from NGOs. What happened with the new arrangement, the decree of the law? All 11 people appointed by the President were preferred by people who had worked in this field before, and now they're gone, so you can appoint anyone you want. Earlier, these people were electing presidents, vice presidents, and now they're not, and they're choosing presidents and vice presidents. It's called human rights, it's supposed to be democratic, it's being converted into a style like this, and it's being converted into delegations that are coming, and many institutions in the European Union and Turkey, including delegations coming to parliament, and so have we -- our deputy chairman of the group -- in earlier times -- this delegation needs to be completely independent, this delegation is not independent. The president needs to connect it to a minister. Who's it connected to? To the Justice Department. You deliver the lamb to the wolf. You're going to go to the prisons, you're going to supervise, you're going to look, you're going to look, you're going to see what's going on, you're going to bring it to the Justice Department. I mean, would that happen? At least give it to an independent agency, and it'll give you an explanation. What's it gonna be? He's going to prison. We're going to prison A, Mr. Minister, for your information. Let's make a phone call. If you do at least one thing... the European Union has warned so much, that's how the Paris Condition has been warned, the Council has just cut off 146m euros from the European Union on November 20th, and Turkey has cut off money from its funds because it has not improved its human rights. You guys get up and do this. Let's say you do, Mr. President, if he's here... Friends, Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Foundation has traveled five places in 2018, one in April. They left in May, and stayed one night in Iconium. They went to a juvenile detention center during the day, and on the second day, they went to the Iconian Training and Research Hospital psychiatric clinic. They went somewhere in the palace. What's going on in Turkey, our friends have just told us, at least if these parliamentarians had answered the questions given to the Ministry of Justice by these MPs, it would have worked again. We'll give them homework, they'll do it, they've never done it. What did this agency do? Since its establishment -- 10 of the 11 members are men, the institution that talks about equality -- has not spoken to one human rights institution in Turkey, has not exchanged information with one human rights institution. Look, we're calling it the Paris Condition, here's the Istanbul Protocol. Mr. Secretary, the Istanbul Protocol was printed in 22 languages. It's a book that the United Nations agrees to, which judges, prosecutors, physicians, and all health professionals must follow. It is published in 22 languages, the Turkish Human Rights Foundation, the Union of Turkish Medical Medicines Association, Forensic Medical Experts Association, Hacettepe University, 9 September University, where it teaches forensic medicine chairs; to judges, prosecutors and physicians. It's a shame this agency didn't even go there, because this agency didn't even visit him. What's he doing? He's training. Look at the website, the Twitter page, the General Command, the Police General Directorate, the General Directorate of Public Hospitals, the Anti-Security Division... it's like this, yes, they're trained to give it to them. It's like when we go to a place, and we check it out, it doesn't come out, it doesn't come out. It develops a mechanism called preventing it. It needs to be fixed. Another, when we look at it, there are a lot of problems with friends -- look, there's a torture atlas here. There are situations like this, none of which are considered. Our friends talked about prisons. I'm sure in Turkey, if we look at the House's Proclamation Commission right now, open the pages there, there'll be thousands of pages of stuff coming from prisons to us lawmakers, even if that institution were to handle them. Look, we said the Department of Justice, we talked about justice, none of it's in place. I'm Human Rights and Equality Foundation President Sulejman Arslan of Turkey, who recently arrived on December 6th... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll ask for an extension.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0296par0483	Okay, I'll give you a minute, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0295par0484	...Mr. President, divorces are a cause of terror. Because of the divorces, the children are devastated, and the children are neglected, he said. May I remind Mr. President, Mr. lion, do you know what child abuse is? Children's rights violations are the obstruction of their education in their native language. A child's rights violation is not to get in the way of children's marriages. It's not a reduced sentence to a rapist just because the little one has consent. It's not being in prison with her mother, it's not being in prison with her mother. It is not to be abused in a correctional home; it is not to suffer a catastrophic loss of life in Aladağ, but to die in the fire, a child's infringement. His funeral isn't Cemile waiting in the fridge for a week, it's child abuse. When you don't look at them, when you don't deal with them, divorce is a cause of terror. When you say, "You're playing with yourself." As I said, you're enjoying yourself as if you've delivered the lamb to the wolf. You call it justice. It's like you've done your homework on the outside to cover negligence, human rights violations, and there's an institution like that. You're playing for yourself. It's a completely disrespectful, insulting environment for all of us. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0297par0488	Thank you, Mr. Silkface. Now it's time for the Bingol MP Erdal Aydemir. Here you go, Mr. Aydemir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0298par0493	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. My speech is at the Personal Data Protection Agency. I'm sure we have some of our fellow Regents who may have heard the name of this institution for the first time, including all of our present representatives. Of course, some of our past political experiences, especially five or six years ago, with Mr. Deniz Baykal, who once served as president of the CHP, again, in various levels of PARTI and MHP parties, there have been very serious distractions in the political lives of our friends, who have actually served in various ranks, who have been managers, who have never really appreciated them, in a humiliating, immoral way, and as a result of these sharings. After this brief reminder, Mr. Minister of Justice is here, and it is imperative that we remind our Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, of some issues, as a representative of the practice of the judiciary, a man of twenty-three years as a lawyer. Mr. General Assembly has compiled and written the statement of the 10th article of the Constitution, which is very clear and specific. This is the Supreme Court of the Constitution. Everyone, everyone, is equal to religion, language, race, gender, sect, philosophy, laws, and laws, not to be observed. This is the Constitution's ruling, my friends, but the implementation of this is very different. Mr. Group President, our deputy attorney and lawyer, also mentioned his identity. Madam Secretary, there was a judge of 10 to 12,000 people, a staff of prosecutors. Unfortunately, 4,500 of them, 4,500 prosecutors, judge, are either convicted or imprisoned for being a member of an illegal armed terrorist organization. Now, the crucial question here is, how will these judges and prosecutors describe the decisions that the courts describe as terrorists, and how will they interpret them? So we're going to call these decisions, these indictments, the decisions or provisions of the terrorists. Are we going to call them the indictments made by terrorists? Exactly, there has been a case called Ergenekon, which has been in the interest of judges and prosecutors, especially members of the same principle of equality that we just talked about. In the past few days, the case has been dropped due to the loss of its legal residence, and all who have been tried in this case have been acquitted. In the same process and parallel, are our first co-chairs, lawmakers, co-chairs, co-chairs, and politicians, whose number is now more than 10,000, being held by prosecutors and judges and under their orders, being tried or not? Again, a political party leader at the time said: "I am the lawyer of the alleged case. I am also the prosecutor of this case." The prosecutor, who is currently on the run and is now a periodically huge popular prosecutor, has been issued a warrant for his alleged terrorist organization member, and is now being sought by the General Assembly, I'll leave it up to Mr. General Assembly's discretion. Now, after this short entry -- I came only yesterday from Bingley -- there are enormous differences in electricity bills in our province here. We've submitted a motion to the Department of Energy about this to be answered. Of course, I've been asked by the barber shop Burhan Çayırbasan, who worked as a barber in Bingol province in particular, that so far, electricity bills from all previous periods have come from an average of $60 to $70, and the final bill is now up to 261 TL. My call from here is to be particularly sensitive to the members of the ruling party, Bingol MPs: we also have a request to be brought to the attention of the power distribution company in Bingol province and to be enlightened about the issue, and to speak louder than the Parliamentary General Assembly. Your Honor, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0299par0505	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. Now it's time for Mersin MP Ridvan Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0300par0510	Mr. President, dear General Assembly, I salute you all. First of all, I offer my condolences to the families of our people who died in this train disaster today, and I pray for God's mercy, and to heal the wounded immediately. But here's the problem: this is the House, not the House of Condolences. With his political influence in power, he's turned this place into a condolence home -- if I'm right. Their constant condolences, their constant condolences, but as a result, the issues remain as an inn wall. After the train crash, we had another one. I've worked on these jobs for many years, so don't think I'm biased or anything, it's a situation that's been created from the neglect of power from the beginning to the end, and everyone who starts with the Minister needs to resign in a democratic country. As I begin, I send my revolutionary greetings to Leyla Güven and Mr. Milahattin Demirtaş. Now, we're talking about agriculture, dear friends, but, I mean, shouldn't we be a little modest? The Department of Agriculture we're talking about is a Ministry that imports hay with a stick. So if we're looking at the speakers' speech and the Minister's presentation before, there's talk of a dream world about millions of dollars, billions of dollars, exports all over the world. On the one hand, you import straw, cattle; on the other hand, we make our own plane. You can't, my friends, there's no such reality. In agriculture, all countries that produce technology in the world -- especially in the United States -- are primarily fully capable countries, and are also the highest in farming support. What kind of ministry are we talking about? For example, we're talking about a ministry that spent 400 billion dollars in 16 years in power, and it didn't provide $50 billion in support for imports. For example, we're talking about a ministry that eliminates veterinary control of imported meat and laboratory control in the meat from Russia. Long story short, we're talking about a ministry that imports anthrax. We're talking about a ministry of government that doesn't know what our situation is about food safety, which the Ministry has done in a row, which doesn't share any data about what pesticides are in public, and who shares it, and who puts valuable academics like Mr. Brent Şık in front of the door. Again, we're talking about the ministry of a government in Afrin, which has given the poor people their livelihood olives, which brings it to the country by means of illegal means, which prevents both the poor people in Afrin (Afrin) and the situation of the country's olive producers, which has also ruined the land in the olive world. Yes, friends, I agree: everyone talks, the AKP does it. Now we're dealing with something called Neoliberal Transformation in my area. This is now beyond the state's transformation, and the AKP has now reached a level where it has been subjected to this transformation, along with all of nature's components. There's one thing that's new, a farmer has been going to banks to produce, starting to borrow money from banks in terms of credit, but for the first time in power, the farmer decides what to plant, how to plant, but by looking at the price of agricultural products in the international area, and so he also considers the loan as a way to transfer revenues. Let's say again that these are not good for country agriculture. However, we see that the AKP's allegations of being new are completely ineffective in the field of agriculture. Especially in 1999, the IMF and the World Bank, as well as the Neoliberal Transformation in Agriculture, which was envisioned by the agricultural reform programme, have continued to do so, dear friends. We're dealing with an approach, particularly based on chemical medicine, chemical fertilizer, genetically modified seed, and intense mechanics, that puts agriculture in the way of small family agriculture. As these are not enough, it is an approach from TUGSASŞ, Agriculture Agency to YEMSAN, to sugar mills that remove the state's regulatory mechanisms one by one. During the crisis, whatever the World Bank and IMF have dictated to this country during the 2000 crisis, the AKP continues to be very militant behind this programme. For example, the Seed Law continues. You remember when you told us that there was a TECEL, that in the resistance of that TECEL, you filled us with gas and a police baton, and you told us that there was a traitor at the time, and now you know what happened to that TEKEL? Friends, his liquor factories were handed over to the U.S. company, the Pacific Company of Texas, and at a price that's more than the price you're selling. He bought the cigarette factory, British Tobacco, and he did it at a price that's worth more than the price you're selling. See, with the Sugar Act, the number of beets is down from 492 thousand to 124,000, and the number of tobacco manufacturers has dropped from 330,000 to 55,000. And then you guys know what those tobacco manufacturers did? Because those tobacco manufacturers didn't have any other jobs, they got into Soma, and when 301 miners lost their lives, well, that's your policy, you have policies that end this agriculture. Again, with the law titled the Earth Protection Law, the land has taken steps to collect the land in the hands of large agricultural companies. Along with the Seed Law, the citizen was transformed into unable to process his own seed. Along with the Metropolitan Law, the village's collective property has been handed over to the savings of municipalities and thus to the savings of large corporations. Look, if we're going to talk about agriculture in Turkey, one, we're going to talk about neoliberal policies, two, non-resolving policies in the Kurdish problem. In the 1990s, the 3,500 Kurdish villages were burned down by security forces with their dissertation, and their witnesses are still alive. Still 70 per cent of Hakkari villages have been evacuated; the AKP continues its politics in the manner of the denial, destruction and assimilation policy in the Kurdish issue at the time. See, to see the problems caused by the Kurdish issue... here, Ağrı, Ardahan, Iğdır, Kars districts have dropped to 1,700,000 living animals in 2009. In my class, there has been a 67% reduction in goat, 58% in sheep, between 1990 and 1995, during the period of war and conflict politics. In small animals, the number between 1990 and 17 is down to 1,200,000 in Mush, and the number of 2 million in Batman is down to 884,000 in the same years. Again, by 38 per cent in Bitlis, 55 per cent in Hakkari, 44 per cent in Mush. Now, if we're going to talk about this in terms of integrity and there's an obligation to take steps towards the solution, it should also be removed from the non-resolving policies of the Kurdish issue as well as from the neoliberal policies. No matter what anyone says, no matter what they say, there are Kurds in this country, there are Kurdish problems in this country, this Kurdish problem is the Kurdish people's problem of speaking their language, it's the problem of living their culture. These are legitimate demands like their mother's white milk, never, never terror. Now, about the farmer's debts. Look, between 2002 and 2016, the support increased by 1.5 times, while agricultural loans increased by 8 times. In the last few years, international banks have increased their credit rate by 10 times. Again, in the last ten years, the debt of 3 million farmers' families has increased sevenfold. And let me tell you something even more tragic, as loans given by banks over the past four years have increased by around 729 per cent, support has remained around 58 per cent, and friends, most of the land, 47 per cent of the land has been mortgaged by banks in 2014. Thanks to this agricultural policy of power, about 2.5 million farmers left production. From 2012 to 2017, valuable friends, 456,000 farmers left the agricultural area. Again, more than 16 million hectares of agricultural land were left empty. Thanks to them, we've become a serious agricultural importer. From January 2017 to January 2018, 234 percent in wheat, 8.5 in corn, 240 percent in rice, 175 percent in chickpeas, 69 percent in beans, 145 percent in sunflowers...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0301par0522	Here, complete it, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0300par0523	... 393 per cent of the cow, 580 per cent of the sheep, and 29 times the increase in the import of beef. I told you at first, you're going to import straw with a stick, and then I'm going to build my own plane. You're going to say, "I'm going to build my own car." The approach of power is full of illusions. They didn't disclose the price to the nut, and after $14.5, the ministry announced the price to the nut, but the manufacturer had already run out of nuts; they sold them to the trader for $9.5 to 11. There's a lot more to say, my friends, but I'll finish with a certain jargon of AKP people; yes, everyone talks, makes AKPs. These are what they've done. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0302par0529	Yes, thank you, Mr. Turan. Now, it's time for Congresswoman Nusrettin Gamenin. Here you go, Mr. Gamein. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0303par0534	I first respect the 38th anniversary of the execution of Erdal Eren. We haven't forgotten him, we won't. Mr. President, we're talking about Turkish agriculture today. Agriculture is one of the most strategic areas to provide for people's vital needs, both yesterday and in the future. Agriculture should be treated as a whole from grain to citrus, livestock to forest and biodiversity. However, as in many areas in Turkey, especially in the wake of political and economic policies following September 12th, our farmers, our forest villagers, have been cut out of production and stopped producing. Banks such as Turkey's earlier savings in the agricultural field, the Meat and Fish Foundation, Tekel, FISKOBIRCIK, Tarhis, have been privatised or neutralized, and the country's agriculture has been suspended from its primary mandate and has been left to the initiative of international monopoly. In the Kurdistan provinces, where I have been acting, 3,500 villages have been evacuated due to the ongoing conflicting process for the past 30 years, and policies have been imposed on the villagers to break down the production power of the region's people by banning them from using pedestrians. As a result, agriculture and livestock have come to an end. The import of animals and meat has increased in Turkey along with agricultural products. So he became addicted to the outside of animalism. As part of this conflicting process, forest fires have destroyed habitats, but have also put the region's people in a difficult position financially, which supports agriculture and livestock. A total of 2,411 forest fires took place in 28 cities in 2017, according to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry General Directorate. I'd like to point out the similarities between the unsolved forest fires in Kurdish provinces and 17,000 unsolved murders in the 90s. After the June 7, 2015 elections, with increased policy of violence on democratic politics, military operations were concentrated in rural areas, creating a number of forest fires simultaneously. In the areas where these operations are happening, forest villagers are not only banned from cross-country and pedestrians, but the region is forced to give up agricultural production and planning because of frequent curfews in agricultural areas. As the latest examples, forest fires have taken place in the region, including Diyarbakır, Dersim, Bingol, Mardin, Şırnak, Siirt and Hakkari. The forest fire in the past few months in my class was not allowed to interfere with the people of Dersim, as the state's authorities did not. Mr. Minister of Agriculture has suggested that an intervention in forest fires in Turkey has been reduced from 45 minutes to 15 minutes, and the damage to forest fires has been reduced. The forest was left to burn for exactly eight days in my class. We know forest fires aren't limited to conflict zones. At first, news of forest fires are coming from Kütahya, Antalya, Mersin, Mughla, and many touristy provinces. For some reason, the burning forest is replaced by huge buildings, hotels. Given the lasting effects of the fires on natural life and on human beings, there is also serious socioeconomic damage to those living in the area of the fires, and the ecological balance is deteriorating. The destruction of forests by fires is not only a period of economic harm to forest villagers in that region, but the balance of nature is deteriorating, the quality of the forests available is destroyed, and economic harm to the people who will live in this region a hundred and two centuries later. Fires and wild animals are being destroyed and wildlife conditions are being eliminated, and their contribution to the agricultural cycle caused by them has been blocked, causing the quality of forest villagers and peasants on the plains to decline. The forest fires are part of the conflicting process, and are clearly included in many human rights organisations' reports and the European Union progress report. With these forest fires, the region was forced to migrate into a cheap labour force army in Turkey's metropolitan settlements. The forest policy must be developed and persevered in permanent, scientific, acceptable standards, considering the future of the peoples living in our country for the next few centuries.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0304par0542	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0303par0543	In order for our forests, our peoples, to be unharmed, the policy of non-combatability must and must be implemented immediately and unconditionally. The policy of eliminating natural life in the jungle zones must be abandoned; the burning of forests, vineyards and gardens must be stopped, and the future of the peoples should not be struck for security policies. In order to remove the damage done during that time, the support and implementation of the villagers in the damaged forest areas must be determined and implemented. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0304par0546	Thank you, Mr. Gamein.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0305par0547	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0306par0548	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0304par0549	Mr. Akçay, I'll make a promise to Mr. Ozkan, and then to you. Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0307par0553	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers represent the nation's representation in Article 80 of our Constitution, our Constitution, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, representing the entire nation, not the district they were elected to or themselves - in a state of ash. Again, it has been stated that it is contrary to the Constitutional Civil Code to the administrative structure of the Republic of Turkey and its nation that the 161st Article of our Interior Charter is in violation of the Constitution, and that it is also a memorandum of temporary dismissal. Of course, in front of our Constitution, citizens of the Republic of Turkey are equal in front of the law in accordance with the principle of equal citizenship with Kurdish, Turkish, Laz, Çerkek, Muslim and non-Muslim. For him, especially among our citizens there is the need for all lawmakers to drink from any speech based on ethnic identity, language, religion, race, sectarian distinction.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0308par0558	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0307par0559	In this context, about a hundred and six years ago, it began with the dissolution of Tripoli, Libya, with similar approaches, the attacks on the undivisable integrity of the nation, the flag, the country and the state, and unfortunately, we experienced a period of withdrawal from the Polythian relatives as a product of this mentality. To sum up the lesson we learned from history, I now salute the General Assembly, from the unity and integrity of our nation, from the unbreakable integrity of our country and the unity of our state, and from the singleness of our flag, that the freedom of all our citizens to live their own language and culture is guaranteed by the Constitution.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0308par0561	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0309par0563	Mr. President, the speaker who just spoke on the stand, especially several times, has used the term "Kurdish provinces" a number of times, especially when he waved his finger at the General Assembly -- in particular -- to emphasize the fact that he was referring to the Kurdish provinces. The municipality of Kurdistan is in question. Now, we strongly deny these statements, extraordinary false expressions. That's my opinion. He can't say. Because the third article of our Constitution is an indivisible whole with the state of Turkey, its country and its nation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0308par0565	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0309par0566	Again, in Article 80 of the Constitution, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey represent the entire nation, not the region or the chosen ones. In contrast to the decisive provisions of this Constitution, these statements also mention that they violate the administrative structure of the Parliament in Article 161, which establishes the working order and rules of the Parliament.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0308par0568	Complete, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0309par0569	It seems that some HDP MPs, in particular from yesterday, insist on continuing -- in some of their talks today -- persisting in some of their provocative attitudes. As acting Speaker of Parliament, I demand that you proceed with this oratory, which I have stated by the Council of Parliament, according to the 161st article.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0308par0571	Thank you, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0310par0572	Mr. President... Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0311par0574	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0312par0575	Not you, Your Honor. Your Honor, stop. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0313par0578	Mr. President, it's not possible to end the discussion of ground names in a very short time, of course, but there is no discussion here of our MPs over common symbols such as the flag, the country, not a division request. We're dealing with a very clear picture. Look, last year, our previous Speaker, he handed us the original Nutuk, the Ottoman manuscript Nutuk. If you look at the book of this Nutuk ( dear friends, you may not speak Arabic) but at least if you look at the letters of the word Kurdistan (Kurdistan), you will see that it is in the Nutuk (Nutuk), the original one, when the Assembly distributes them to us. It's not too far, if you go to the Nation right away, the First Assembly has their adjectives next to their names. It's not right to turn it into fear, turn it into a split syndrome. In Iran, dear friends. Look, this country has not been associated with Barzani and his administration in Iraq for a long time.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0314par0582	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0313par0583	Politically, we object to something else. The relationship was finally established because of Turkey's economic interests. During that time, the words that were spoken stand in one place, the words of Mr. Cemil Cicek, and other words; they are extremely insulting. Dear friends, these people live in this geography, and these people have the name of the historical geography they live in. Plants have names, first-time plants, geography has names. Mr. Erdogan has a group talk, he has a group talk, he has a Kurdish. He has his own sentence. Now, I'm not saying this to open up those arguments again, but instead of turning it into a tension, a polemix, let's talk about life together, law, common country, how we're going to live without bloodshed in common symbols, what law we're going to live with. Otherwise, each insubstantial approach, every deniable approach, historically, culturally, non-identifying approach to identity, only serves to engage in conflict in the Middle East and to turn the populations of the region into sides of other tensions.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0314par0586	Complete it, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0313par0587	In Turkey's best interest, however, is that it is at peace with all social and historical realities, both within Turkey and outside Turkey, and that it never gives the country a chance to divide, conflict, other equations. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0314par0589	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Mr. Secalioglu...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0315par0592	Mr. President, we've come to this day to pay the price of pain for what the concepts provide, for what they put in our minds. I, in fact, am from a region called Lazistan in Ottoman times, but I no longer abuse it because it does not carry a political paranoia over the mention of the Black Sea region as "Lazistan." If tomorrow a similar threat begins from the Black Sea, and tomorrow the desire to wave another flag over the land of this land meets terror, then it is also a crime to call it lazistan. So in this land, the political fiction of our children, the scum that has been stomping over our nation's future for 40 years, meets with the demands of Kurdistan, and divides our minds. Otherwise, in a thousand years of abandonment, the terminology of emparatorism is not the same lane that the terror we live in is trying to force us into. What we ask of our friends is that no terminology of terrorism and terrorism can be used here. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0314par0595	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0315par0596	So we don't sacrifice what we call a tie and what we've spent a thousand years sweating and paying for, to the lust of a few words. So we meet our demands for sensitivity only in accordance with the character of the House, and we say, "Don't say, friends, don't say." We won't settle for that. If you're in the mood to create a legitimate place for what you're doing here in your minds, we know where we're getting our land from, we know how we're getting our land from, so we're not going to have you rehearsing a division paranoia that's going to come out of these concepts. Don't say that, don't say that. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0314par0599	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0316par0601	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Bilgen, of course, we can go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. But, now, there's truth, there's a Constitution, and there's the sensitivity of our nation. We'll discuss that debate until morning, but the issue that won't be discussed is that the Republic of Turkey is indivisible with its country and its nation, and its shareholders, including the PKK terrorist organisation, are doing this propaganda on various platforms that are possible in one way or another. These propagandas mean nothing to us but separatist and terrorist organization propaganda.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0317par0605	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0316par0606	In addition, when it comes to these common symbols, there are hundreds of examples in the minds of our nation, of course, of 81 million people, of the common values of the Republic of Turkey, of the past, of how they have been mocked, ridiculed, and opposed from time to time. In various party conventions and environments, the Turkish flag has been lowered, chewed and burned, and I want to express that. I mean, we also don't think it's believable and we don't see a single credible attitude to express this kind of bribery through this kind of debate on the common symbol.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0317par0608	Complete, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0316par0609	In that respect, the most important bench of our nation and our country, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, should have these talks with the necessary sensitivity, care, and respect, and this is not the terrorist platform for the terrorist organization's propaganda. I'll rephrase that. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0317par0612	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Akçay, you have just made a request in your statement. I remember that you attended meetings almost full-time when there was an amendment to the Civil Code. I've done all of that work as a member of the Constitutional Commission on behalf of my party. And when this verdict comes, the debates are alive in our minds because they happened at a very new time, and there are reports. So we were very clear about this question, and we said, "When the words of Kurdistan (,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, are going to be a punishment?, especially, representatives of the AK PARTI group, and vice presidents, and even in some of our talks, it's the general response to you:, it's not going to use only as a geographical name. But if this is a division... because then another sentence has been added, or rather, added to a few other expressions. If this is clearly used as an expression of a division request, it will cover it. (For example, if we try to ban such statements, if we punish them, we will seriously disable Article 83 of the Constitution.) In addition, in many cases, we limit freedom of thought and the right to say on the stand to a degree that is incompatible with the general democratic principles. Despite all objections, we also lived together with the first offer being revised only to a certain extent. Let me remind you that the first proposal, the first proposal, the first proposal, did not have the undivided integrity of the Republic of Turkey and its nation in its original text, but was only referred to as making anti-management definitions in the constitution, and then added to it by offering a change of signature. As a reason, an arrangement that would only mean ban use of geographical definitions in those discussions would be troubling. Instead, let us consider it a disciplinary offense to use it in connection with demands that clearly target indivisible integrity. It's all in the transcripts. The reason I remind you again is that I don't see the use of such a declaration as a disciplinary action, and I don't think it's being used in that sense. So I don't see the need to make a transaction.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0318par0617	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0319par0618	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0320par0619	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0321par0620	Dear lawmakers, the group's vice presidents want a word. They'll make the necessary statements. Then, if there are lawmakers who want a word, they'll enter the system, according to Article 60, I'll give the MPs a minute's notice when it comes to it. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0322par0624	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, of course, is not our opinion that you refer to the talks during these amendments to the Civil Code. The idea of us is to make a statement against the administrative structure of the Constitution, which is written to this Civil Code. As a matter of fact, the speaker, not in a geographical sense or anything like that, is to say that the Kurdish provinces and the Kurdistan provinces -- once a geographic, we don't accept that -- at least in the context of the matter discussed -- is against the administrative structure of the Constitution. This is the name of the provinces of the Republic of Turkey, of the districts, of the town, of the mountain, of the plain. So ignoring it means, of course, it involves a separatist expression.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0321par0627	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0322par0628	Now, it's not a geographical issue, it's a different bet, but there are clear statements here. A number of administrative structures outside the administrative structure of the Constitution state that it does not know and express its longing. So he doesn't know the Constitution either. This should be considered from our care, and I also say that we insist on our view of this 161st article.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0321par0629	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Alekalioğlu, I believe you have a request.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0323par0632	We're not discussing the discussion, but I'm not saying it because I want to change the place. That's exactly what we've been trying to tell our friends in the AK PARTY in the process that we've started as the democratic solution process. Talk to your own citizens who voted for you the issues of our Kurdish, Kurdish, Kurdish, non-terrorism, non-approved terror, voting for you to live with your people in the region, and don't try to get a human rights apostle out of this Kandil. Now there's a place where everyone who speaks for the HDP is actually right. We didn't say it ourselves, we've been told by those who've been running the state for four or five years. So, what makes them right is that in this democratic solution process, this disgrace is where we are brought up by this process that has made all the scoundrels living in the Kandil to become high-income apostles of democracy from the top of the state to all the red tape that is responsible for this matter.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0321par0634	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0323par0635	So now, while we're picking up mistakes, we've already been doing politics with our share for years. So from our sensibilities, we're more likely to be victims of a perceived Kurdish, as if we were saying, "Turk (Turkish)," as if we were saying, "Kurk" (Turkish)." We said that our will to be together in this country was called the Turkish nation. We have many Kurdish brothers and sisters, we've been communityists for years. We have many Kurds that we believe will cross the line bridge like lightning, the Turkic sacrifice to their feet. That's not what we're saying. While all this was going on, Najmuddin, there was a moment of my smile on the teacher's face where we had to deal with all these scoundrels behind this process of negotiation on the parliamentary platforms that we had to deal with, it was wrong. That's why this business we're talking about today is so clear. We can't, of course, form sentences on our own innocence. Sometimes we'll make sentences that fit the seriousness of the state, we'll set them up, we'll set them up.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0324par0639	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0323par0640	I'm packing it up, Mr. President. I'm in this country, not to be bullied by friends, but I'm going to move that we can't manage our state, our nation, to get this many votes from the HDP. If we could manage with skill, it's a handful of scoundrels that started in 83. It wouldn't be against us to be together so strongly. I'm just saying to ourselves...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0325par0643	Always HDP, HDP...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0323par0644	I don't mean HDP. That's what I insisted on, guys. I am not a man who has lost his self-respect enough to call anyone who voted for HDP (HDP) a PKK member, never. I'm not so rude as to consider our citizens who voted for the HDP (HDP) to be Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Never. I know that the people who voted for HDP...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0326par0645	Do not enter the national race! Do not enter the national race!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0323par0646	I never said that, mind your own business! I didn't say that, leave it alone! A political language that cannot distance itself from the PKK is not the language of this Assembly. We're behind the union of this country...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0327par0648	Do not receive any rants through HDP.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0323par0649	You don't have to settle this at all. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We never gave up on ourselves, our heart, our brotherhood, enough to call every citizen who voted for HDP.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0328par0652	Mr. Secalioglu, please finish.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0323par0653	I'm hanging up. Look, it's like this, sir: Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, we're on the opposition side of this, to ourselves, to the opposition, to the opposition, to the opposition, to the opposition, to the public, to the public. Let the ruling party make statements about the responsibility of the process when it's become so clear. There's an advance you gave them behind some of the sentences the HDP oratories said, and they're right about that. Therefore, you are in charge of that matter, and you will answer them.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0329par0655	You can include CHP.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0330par0656	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0331par0657	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0332par0658	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0330par0660	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we didn't want to get to the point where the good PARTY wanted to attract us, we've been resisting for a while, and we tried to express that a little bit yesterday. He's trying to get his account through the HDP with other parties. He tries to show how patriotic he really is by uploading him to some parties, especially the party he comes out of, to other parties, and every time, he says, "Why don't you crush the HDP, the Kurds more?" We say to them...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0333par0662	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0330par0663	Don't say mercy... that's what you're pushing.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0334par0664	It's not fair.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0330par0665	Targeting, constantly threatening, always waving fingers, that's what you've been doing since the election started in Turkey. You're in some other trouble.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0335par0667	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0330par0668	And yesterday, we said: "Do I get a few extra parliamentary memberships from the MPP? "
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0336par0669	Not at all.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0330par0670	So, now, this orator, this friend of ours, is in the area... and if I say "furdistan" now, you're just gonna sit there and get up. He is a member of a party that operates there, petitions according to the Political Parties Act, and wants to name it that way. Right now, there's a Kurdistan Freedom Party in that area, and it's established according to our Constitution. If we had a good alliance, maybe a congressman of his would be here right now, and maybe the president would say, "He's from the Kurdistan Freedom Party." He didn't show up, he didn't show up. This is legally established, and right now, there are parties running in that area, friends.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0337par0671	So let them answer, and let them answer, if you are truthful.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0330par0672	Now, you, you know, you always say, "Love the Creator for the Creator." You say, "It's because of the Creator."
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0338par0674	Complete it, Mr. Survivor. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0330par0676	What we are, who we are, where we've come from. You've brought Turkey with your blind politics -- don't say war, don't say war -- every day as long as our young people die. The AKP has done a proper job -- this state -- or at some point, in which our party is involved in a process of treason. I'm returning this to you. Our party has never been in the process of treason. On the contrary, our party took a huge risk. In this country's tradition, the prime minister is hanged, and the president's death remains unknown as to how the perpetrator was murdered. Once again, at the time of the death of some soldiers unknown, he stands aside here. There are some murders that look like traffic accidents. Even though our delegation knew about it, it took such a responsibility by taking the risk.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0338par0678	Put him through, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0330par0679	Well, that's worth appraising. This is not a prison camp, this is not a HDP prisoner. This is a House where everyone is partners, representing all the peoples, trying to do it. Let's all say what we think here. What we think is that you can't pressure us by accusing us like this: there's no division, there's no division. We are assured that bringing peace to this country, bringing justice here, that sovereignty will be a nation without condition, that it will not remain here. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0338par0682	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0339par0684	Mr. President, there was an opinion in the House that these statements were not being used in recent studies and talks about some of the terms that are being used here, and there was a meeting, and the group's vice presidents know that. There are cities in which Kurds live in dense cities; there are cities in which the Kurds live busy; there is nothing in this; but if you try to keep it and try to bring it up again from the council bench, or from the Kurdish provinces, or from another definition, it would be a provocative movement for us to read it. Because it's been discussed in the past period, and it's been expressed here that the group's vice presidents have held a meeting here about how to use language. We don't think it's in the best interest of us to turn around and take the same thing back to the House. We don't see any goodwill here, but we think the House is being provoked.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0338par0686	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0339par0687	Articles 3, 123 and 126 of the Constitution make it very clear what the administrative structure of Turkey is, how it is. The state of the Republic of Turkey consists of 7 geographical regions and 81 provinces. There were these definitions during the Ottoman balance period we're sitting on now. True, there were different definitions in the Ottoman era, but now we have a new state, we live in a new state. The legal framework of this period, the Constitution, and the laws differ with Ottomans; the names of the regions and definitions are rewritten according to our Constitution. Or when we go back to the Ottomans, are there many other definitions of different subjects used at the time, and will we use them as well? Of course not. So I'd like to say that we find it appropriate for everyone to act within the Constitution and within the law. Another: I have a recommendation to Mr. Yavuz, not to measure the patriotism of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0338par0690	Finish it, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0339par0691	We think that Yavuz Bey should not need such a thing to measure the patriotism of the AK PARTY. We think he's a patriotic man, we wish him success, but he doesn't have to show it through the AK PARTY, he shouldn't need to. That's our point of view. We recommend that everyone use language and style in accordance with the Civil Code, in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0338par0693	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0340par0694	One sentence, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0338par0695	Please make it very short, Mr. Secalioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0340par0697	I'm just correcting it because I'm sensitive to election populism. Ahmet Mud was martyred, left two orphans, a martyr like our thousands of martyrs. We risk losing an election a thousand times over a drop in the eye of the children he left behind. We'd rather lose an election a thousand times than lose a piece of country's land. We're not the kind of people who wait to vote for our country. When it comes to our country, we can get more votes, and we won't be victims of lust. It's not like I'm being rude or anything, like weighing on anyone's patriotism or anything. It's just, sometimes irregularity breeds other things. I said it to draw attention to the place where the error of order brings us now, to the places where we've been thrown at, or else I'm not the kind of person to disrespect anyone's love for their homeland. Please see my sensitivity. I strongly refuse to allow my sensitivities in this matter to be a sign of election populism. With respect to your General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit04spe0341par0701	Thank you, Mr. Secalioglu. Mr. Erkan Akçay, I've heard your opinion again. I insist on my own opinion, so I don't think there's any need for disciplinary action here. That's why I'm not making any transactions. I'm taking a 35-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0341par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 The commission is in place. We continue the talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Now it belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Ayşe Dürdar. Here you go, Mr. Driver. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0342par0056	Mr. President, I have made a commitment today to the state waterworks budget. But first, I'd like to make a brief assessment of the detentions of the science. Eight days ago, we were raided and detained by dozens of our friends in our county building. From our mothers to the executives of our party and even my advisor, about 50 people were taken into custody until they were taken into custody with their three-year-old child. Today is the 8th day of detention, but unfortunately the detention period continues, and with the current lack of law in Urbana, the period of detention has been continued and the pressure on our party has been increased. In fact, it's not coincidental that these pressures are happening on the eve of the local elections. We'd like to stress once again that our friends in custody must be released immediately. Dear friends, with state waterworks and dams, it's not only responding to the needs of the people, but it destroys the memory of this geography by watering down the history of the peoples. The Ataturk Dam, one of Turkey's largest dams, is within the borders of Adıyaman and Urbana, but the region's people suffer from severe shortages of electricity and water. With the dams built, Hasankeyf, Samsat Ancient City, cave houses on the hill, graves in Halfeti, stone-cutting houses in Kurdish regions and a cultural genocide by destroying history, culture, memory. But what you don't know is the fact that the Kurdish people will re-create this history with their hands, with their hands, with their hands, with their memories, their culture that you've flooded and destroyed. Because you're afraid of the history of the Kurdish people, of their graves. Your fear is to remember, and you know very well that remembering is a resistance to forgetting and assimilation. That's why you hide the graves of Sheikh Sait, of Seyit Reza, of Saidi Kurdi, of Jibranlı Halit Bey, and many other Kurdish dignitaries with your own fears. But you should know that in these dams that you build with your fears, you will leave this power with your fears. Today, the AKP government has fallen into the sin of Mother Taybet, Ceylan Önkol, Roboski children, Suruçu Şenyasar family, with the genocide of Hasankeyf to his 10,000 years of history and culture. Dear friends, when we look at the history of official ideology, the government has always found a solution in the transport of Kurdish, exile, and the removal of its roots, while the Kurds have also reconstructed their history to show that this policy is of no use. Today, the government is trying to wipe out a memory in the transport of Hasankeyf, in the flood, and in the removal of the historical parts, but you can be sure that Emine Şenyaşar, who cries out that he will not lose his memory and rebuild his graves with dynamite. Yes, dear friends, valued lawmakers; today the Justice Department budget has been discussed. I particularly want to give you a few examples of my own knowledge. For a long period of time, Turkey's anti-punishment policies continue. Although 33 lives have been lost, the Suruç massacre has been ongoing for three years, unfortunately no progress has been made, and again, there is no progress in the Şenyasar family's case, where four people lost their lives before the June 24th elections. There is only one prisoner involved, and that is Fadil Shenyashar, whose father and two brothers were slain. Emine Şenyaşar, who had to leave Suruç, who had lost his wife and two sons because of the pressures he was under, wants justice and wants justice. Everyone knows so far that not a single member of AKP MP Yildiz's family has been taken into custody or arrested. From the beginning, the attitude of both the judiciary and the safety is biased. Yes, the judiciary should not be the judgment and the side of those close to power in this country. From here, we would like to express once again the request of justice of Emine Şenyahar. And we salute the Council.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0343par0062	Thank you, Mr. Driver. Mr. Rich, over. I guess there's too many MPs in the system, so they can't get a new name. That's why it doesn't look like you're in the system, but I'm having the microphone turned on, I promise you. Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0344par0067	Mr. President, thank you very much. I think there's something wrong with the system, and I couldn't get in even though I tried. Yeah, well, after the break, I'd like to say hello to all my friends. I listened carefully to the speech of Mr. Driver. In fact, of course, naturally, as of his age -- I'll say so -- I don't think Turkey has much of a history of coups. There is an inverse proportion between the history of democracy and the history of coups in Turkey. The AK PARTY is a party that, as it was originally founded and its own life continues, in 2016, opposes the whole verb of the coups and all of them. When it's looked at like this, the issues he's talking about are an embodiment of a coup d'état in Turkey. Why should we be afraid of graves? Isn't Saidi Nursi our business in this country? Everywhere we've been for years, we've been part of a campaign of many events involving Saidi Nursi. The graves are sacred in all belief systems, no one can harm or harm graves. The AK PARTY has nothing to do with it. After a man is dead, all things are settled, and they are brought back to the Hereafter. There's no way we'll ever be afraid of graves.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0345par0071	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0344par0072	We can't harm any culture. But his approach, because he's already drawn to all the issues with a warrior understanding, is that he's in a great confusion in understanding, analyzing, and telling things, and I want to underline it. Thank you. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0346par0121	Now it's time for İzmir MP Sepil Kemalbay Pek Göpeğügü. Here you are, Mr. Kamalbay. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0347par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Leyla Güven (Applause from HDP rows) Our Hakkari MP is in a critical phase of the hunger strike on the 36th day. This Parliament has not heard our voices until now, but from tens of thousands of miles away, Leyla Güven of the Colombian Parliament received greetings from Leyla Güven, and as a Kurdish woman, Leyla Güven was sent a Kurdish salute to Leyla Güven. (APPLAUSE) This is where I greet Leyla Güven. I wish you success in his hunger strike for peace and democracy. Dear friends, the earlier statements of Dear Ayşe Driver would have been very well understood when he was actually resting with honesty in the eyes of the heart. I don't think there's a lack of commitment, there's a lack of honesty, there's a lack of listening. Look, we're actually talking about Turkey's politics here. The ECHR has made a decision regarding Demirtaş. It was said to be released immediately regarding Dear Demirtaş, a valued politician of Turkey's democracy and peace. Demirtaş was cheated, but Demirtaş was not released, he was punished. Just like years ago, you did what you did to Orhan Doğana, to Layla Zana, so you learned nothing. Dear friends, even if I was 90 years old yesterday, I would not ask you to release me. You didn't arrest me of your own volition so you could evacuate. I'm a political hostage here. He said, and he's telling the truth. Look, you're holding Ayþe Düzkan. You're holding dear Gencay Gürsoy hostage because he signed the peace declaration. Those who favor peace and democracy want to take him hostage, and those who are tired of war and violence, believe that they will not give up despite all things; Demirtaş and all political prisoners will be freed by this people. What we're talking about is the relationship of justice, dear friends. Budget rights have been available since Magna Carta, since 1215. The king couldn't take any taxes that the House didn't accept. From that day forward, a tax that the public does not approve is unacceptable. If possible, the public will do so through representatives in parliament. However, representatives in parliament can reveal their own will if they are in poverty and inadequacy. That, my friends, is exactly what the yellow vests in France are doing today. They're protesting the unfair gas tax. They're protesting tax reduction from the rich, direct taxes from the poor, a lot of indirect taxes. However, this resistance, which advocates the budget rights of the French people, frightens our ruling and supporters more than the French rich and government. He sees no difference between a protest and terror, where the ruling party seeks to give advice to Macron (the French) and the rich. The people's struggle for equality and freedom is the true source of democracy. Those who try to crush him by force are the dictatorial minions, their allies. Bullies are enemies of budgetary rights. Yellow vests can't be considered terrorists, they can't respect a head's budget rights. As political representatives of a people who have been stripped of budget rights, we are witnessing this sometimes controversial, combative demonstration under the name of the budget talks. We're going through a period when the presidential system is imposed on our country under pressure by the YSK. By this form of the presidential system, the sovereignty of the people is assumed. Today, sovereignty is your palace, not your nation's. Budget rights have been completely lost to the peoples of Turkey, friends, need to be regained. Yeah, we really have to do our reviews. The public only grants tax and budget to the manager who acts with the limitation of his budget. In Turkey, we are on a road from the process of obeying rules to the process of obeying people. Turkey is in a process of unconstitution; we are all witnessing that the legal system is being made as an excuse maker of actions. The Parliament has taken on the role of a statementer of a budget prepared at court, dear friends. We have to expose this ridiculous game. The public's budget has been seized, and the rightful rightful owner needs to be given to the public. To do that, we must rebuild the separation of forces with a democratic constitution, dear friends. Minister, we've minimized the negatives with the measures we've taken." Says friends about economics. Workers don't burn natural gas even though they freeze in their homes. We'd like to ask if these are the measures taken. In our social state sense, giving free water and electricity to minimum wage should be the government's duty. It is the government's duty to provide job security for people who have nothing to live on but their work.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0348par0138	Complete it, Mr. Kemalbay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0347par0139	It must be the government's duty to tax the minimum wage, to collect more taxes from the rich than from the holdings, rather than the indirect taxes. The minimum wage must be at least $2,850 in these conditions. It must be necessary for the public to offer a secure life to each citizen, to ensure the safety of his child's education, his health, dear friends. Yes, the private budget of the Turkish Water Institute, the General Directorate of Meteorology, is not really an acceptable budget. The Court already says what needs to be said, but it is clear to those who say what needs to be said what this one man's regime is doing. We think that water rights are equal for all peoples. We think water is a right not only for the people, but also for all living things.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0348par0142	Let's turn on the mike. Bind your words, please, Mr. Kemalbay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0347par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Market forces and the government look at the water with a profit index and a sense of security, and we're against that understanding. It destroys our water reserves and destroys society, peace, reconciliation between humanity. The right to live in a healthy environment, the right to have access to healthy food, the right to live in good health, that right is not for the rich alone, dear friends. We must stand against the industry that polluted our rivers. Look, Greens, Reds, it's contaminated by industrial facilities, and this power, it's watching. At the same time, the Lawn Plain is completely contaminated and destroyed. We say this Parliament, this power can't watch them. We must protect the water rights together, we must defend them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We should basically object to this budget. This budget is the budget of the wealthy, the palace.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0349par0148	Keep a man alive so the government can live.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0347par0149	I say we defend the public's budget. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0350par0152	Thank you, Mr. Kemalbay. Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0351par0156	Mr. President, thank you very much. In his speech, Pek Göpegü said that he would not want to be released, even if he was 90 years old. We know, and we're reading that he's asked for immediate release through his lawyer. As far as I know, every lawyer's request connects the original. So even if he didn't say so himself, he would have said it through his lawyer, in any case, and that's also what he said, which is within his right to defend himself. So, I find it legal to talk about it in a struggle for honor by saying there's nothing done. I'd like to further point out that during the day, it's been said over and over, but we feel the need to be told once again. The European Court of Human Rights ruled on the first arrest and continuing arrest. He's already justified the first arrest, convinced there's a reasonable doubt. Later, the European Court of Human Rights said that the decision on appeals to imprisonment should be more detailed. After that, the process of imprisonment is over, the sentence has been made, so in fact, there is a new sentence in place. Maybe it's better to talk about this decision now. So it can't be right to say over and over again that there's a decision that hasn't been carried out. I've already explained it in more detail, and our objections to that process will continue.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0352par0160	Complete it, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0351par0161	There is also a decision written against the European Court of Human Rights concerning the 18th Amendment. We have a chapter from our own member. I suggest they sit down with this department and read that objection. Today, it's been a long time, and maybe it'll open up again, again and again, because we're talking about the same things over and over again. In that sense, I recommend that they read the appeal that was written about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0353par0163	You read the verdict. We'll read the fortune, you read the verdict.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0354par0164	Thank you. Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0355par0167	Mr. President, I think we have to say that in every era in this country, politicians have been heavily tried to be controlled by a judgment bat. Look, I don't want to enter a chapter in history, but the leading names of the Salvation War were Kazim Karabekir, Rauf Orbay, who were tried for the assassination of Mustafa Kemal. We passed the Institutional Courts, and came to May 27th, and there was a court that judged Menderes, and Poletkan, and Zordar. Three young saplings were executed in 1971. There was a judgment behind it, yes, a procedure was completed. Under this roof in 1980, a lot of people have been subjected to heavy pressure from different lines of nationalist, socialist Islamic movement, but we argue that politics, politics, is where the struggle is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, iss, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is,
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0354par0169	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0355par0170	If you try to purge the people you compete with, fight, fight in competition with with other mechanisms, it turns into the arenas in Rome, so in a way, you know, they'd be challenged, then thrown in front of an animal, then fed, and that was Roman democracy, I quote, in quote. Now, instead of fighting political actors, it's wrong to arrest him through trial and defend himself through the decision of the ECHR, and I think, with an understanding that there will be no need for the ECHR, this roof should defend that no one should be arrested for what they say. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0356par0174	Here you go, Mr. Rich. But now, please, let's keep it short, let's finish in a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0357par0177	Of course, it's too short. Mr. Bilgen, I'm all for honorable politics, we're all in, we're all in, we're all in politics without terrorism behind it. The trials you're talking about, I've just said, are the ones that followed the blows, so how do you compare the courts of May 27th, the coups of 1980, the coup trials of today? I don't think any of you have the right.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0358par0180	The same, the same!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0359par0181	Today's are worse, worse.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0357par0182	We never accept that. We just want a policy that gets its power from politics, just takes it from words, doesn't lean on guns, that's all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0360par0185	Mr. Bilgen, you too, please, keep it short.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0361par0187	Mr. President, there's nothing in the case that he's being sentenced to right now, where he's quickly changed the file order and sentenced to trial, except for his speech in 2013. If you were to say something about the case he's being tried on today, you'd say, "Okay, this is what's in the indictment.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0357par0188	There's a European Court of Human Rights decision, please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0361par0189	Besides, you know you can't be punished for less than five years if there's a claim you've already made. So at least consider the one in the indictment, at least the judge's decision, and we'll discuss it over him. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0362par0191	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0363par0192	Mr. President, may I have a word?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0362par0193	Mr. Rich, we're clear.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0363par0194	One last sentence...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0362par0195	Look, I've always met the demands of the group's vice presidents, but I don't think it's right to go on like this.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0363par0196	Neither do I. One last sentence.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0362par0197	However, I give you my word for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0363par0200	Now, our words are not enough; the decisions made by Turkish courts, by the Turkish Republic of Turkey's courts are not enough; the European Court of Human Rights confirms that it supports terrorism by what it wrote on Twitter.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0364par0201	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0365par0202	Yeah, what makes you say that? They don't really understand what they're reading.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0363par0203	Please, I'm asking you to read them, so read them. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0365par0205	What are you afraid of?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0366par0206	Dear MPs, the talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group have been completed. Now, I'm going to promise four congressmen one minute from their place, and then I'm going to make a promise to Jahangir Islam on behalf of the Party of Saadet, which has no group in parliament. First, Mr. Ayhan Altınstone. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0367par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the agenda is changing very quickly, so I'd like to remind you again of this morning's accident. I wish God's mercy to nine of our citizens who died this morning because of a car accident in Yenimahalle County and to those who were injured. When we arrived at the scene, the cars were still being evacuated, so there was no healthy information. According to the deputy general manager I interviewed, 47 were injured, but it was also said that the number was more than 70. At the moment, 86 wounded are in the press. I wish that this event, on a national and international level, would not be covered up, not only on three workers, but on the basis of the study of the systemic reasons for the incident, to be detected in scientific and engineering methods, and that our Parliament would show the sensitivity necessary to prevent events like this from repeating. I'm saying get well for our whole nation. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0368par0214	Mr. Asuman Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0369par0216	Mr. President, it's one of our most important duties to share and express the suffering of our nation, and it's not as natural as doing it in the home of the nation. As Ankara MP, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in a train accident in Yenimahalle, Ankara, and their condolences to their relatives, and immediate healings to the wounded. Fire burns where it falls, fire falls in our hearts. It is only a matter of time before the Turkish Armed Forces, which follow every step of the PKK, the PYD, the YPG terrorists, launch an operation to the east of Fırat. I wish our army the success of our heroic army, the Battle of the Firat Shield and the Olive Branch, to the success of our army, in an operation that we believe will be more successful in this region. I pray that even one of our Mehmets who will join the operations will be reunited with their loved ones, their families, before their nose bleeds out. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we will begin our operation in a few days to rescue the eastern part of the Ferrarat from the separatist terrorist organization. They're still not taking out the terrorists there, so we'll get them out, and it's settled. He's expressed his determination in this operation...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0370par0220	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0371par0222	Attention, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism: The Akkaya Dam between Niğde and Bor was established in 1970 for irrigation, and in the last decade it has become unable to survive with rapidly increasing pollution. The smell of dams surrounds the university and the city near Akkaya Dam, the environmental disaster. When will this dam be cleaned? Although asbestos products are banned, it is known that asbestos are asbestos in closing municipalities and some settlements. Earlier Minister of Environment Mehmet Özhaseki said a year ago, let me know where you are in parliament, and we will change it immediately. Niğde Bor Kemerhisar Municipality and Bor Kızılca Municipality have been applied for and have been silent. How many municipalities and cities still have asbestos drinking pipes, including cancer, have they been investigated? Asbestos building demolitions under control? More than a thousand municipalities use asbestos water pipes, the Bank of Provinces says. What will happen to those who have not been changed?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0372par0225	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0373par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. I actually wanted to ask Mr. Attorney General a question, but he's not here. I've had over 30 years of legal life, and as a lawyer, I've been able to visit prisons since martial law courts. For three years, I've only been able to visit Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and my other friends once, and not all of them. What right do we have that our petitions are not answered and not allowed? I think it's time for the minister, who's a lawyer himself, to answer that question. And I think it's one of those people in this country who's been taking out the current law magazine -- maybe it's the last law journal -- that's going to end, and I think it's one of the records that there's no law left in this country. He was one of his readers, so I hope he'll answer that question.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0372par0229	Mr. Islam, I'll give you three minutes to stay put, and then I'll extend it if I have to.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0374par0231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I wish our casualties the mercy of today's train accident, the immediate healing of our wounded. Mr. Secretary is not present, but just as Mr. Gergerlioglu has come to his house, I've had a lot of complaints from prisons, more or less, about everything. So I'm looking at statements from the ministers on this, but on the other hand, I'm looking at these complaints, and it's really inconsistencies and inconsistencies. What I object to is that they address complaints as propaganda, not as a human rights issue, but as propaganda. I'm deeply concerned that the Minister of Justice will handle the matter this way. There is a solution to this, Mr. Secretary - please send a message to Mr. Secretary - there is a solution to this: open the prisons to the MPs. Let's go, let's look at people's situation there and let's hear their complaints. There's another matter. See, I've asked for an appointment with seven politicians and intellectuals I know from four prisons, and six of them have been rejected, and one of them expires on the 18th. Mr. Secretary, what is the reason for this, or on behalf of Mr. Secretary, I'm referring to officers who can answer there. Mr. Huda Kaya has brought up another matter, my friends. I address my dear AK PARTY friends, especially my friends with headscarfs. Look, Mr. Kaya mentioned 19 detentions and the removal of the headscarf of four of them. Shall we go and explore on this? And I'm willing to accompany you, so if you have any intention of doing that, I'm willing to accompany you as a person who fought seriously over the headscarf in the '90s and was punished for it, but what I'm suggesting is, come, let's take a look at it in place. Yes, we solved this problem in 2013 with the consensus of the Republican People's Party and the EC PARTY in 2013, and even with the consensus of all parties, so we solved it very well in Congress, but with the headscarf released in parliament, this right can be violated on other sides, in police stations. My dear AK PARTY friends, I would like to remind you of the 1990s, so I would like to remind you of our dreams in the 1990s. So living together, pluralism, freedom...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0375par0239	Complete it, Mr. Islam.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0374par0240	Thank you, sir. I mean, living together, democracy, pluralism, equal relations... what do we even say from time to time? In fact, if we were in the middle of something, we'd show them what democracy is. We'd talk about this, and we'd talk about justice, and we'd talk about the rule of law, dear friends, because we'd all really, more or less all of us had suffered some damage. Yes, I believe that Turkey's biggest problem today is the rule of law, so when we say rule of law, I remind them that law, every person, every officer, every institution, and all of it, is binding without exception. Remember those days again, what would happen? They used to gather judges and give briefings. What did the Minister of Justice even do? He had published a statement, rightly and reminded me that it was against professional principles and ethics for judges to participate in this briefing. I'm asking the Minister if you've given such a reminder to the judges who are being briefed today, have you given such a warning? But I don't think so, because today custody continues, only and only custody has changed hands, dear friends. So today the custody of the Judiciary and Legislative Assembly is unfortunately carried out by the administration. My dear friends, when we look at the execution, we see that it is both effective on the judiciary, that it affects judicial decisions, and that it really has influenced a significant portion of the living. I'd like to give this council a warning: Turkey, by violating the rule of law and the state of law...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0376par0246	Bind your words, Islam. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0374par0248	Thank you. These concepts are really moving forward to harm both the AK PARTY and Turkey, all of us. The power to get Turkey out of this point belongs to this Parliament, my dear friends. If you think about it, you'll see that underneath all the men is this legislature again, and this is actually the institution that designes the system in the final sense. My call to all of you is: Come, let's put our heads together and work hand in hand to replace all institutions in Turkey, to restore the state of law and to restore the rule of law. Thank you very much, Mr. President, and my dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0377par0251	Thank you, Islam. Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0378par0254	Mr. President, thank you very much. It's the first time I've heard what it's like in prisons about the headscarf that Mr. Islam has expressed in his speech. From here, our friends... our chief of staff is already here, so if you could just make a promise, I think he'd better make a statement. Because as far as I know, there's no way in hell that there's a ban on the headscarf, there's no problem, there's no problem. And if there is, then we're behind it all the way, it can't be, it can't be. I think my friends might be able to explain here right now, so I'd like you to make a promise. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0379par0257	I've reminded you of the Batman matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0380par0258	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0381par0259	The Minister has a request to make a statement, I believe. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0380par0262	Mr. President, there is no problem with the headscarf, no matter how the high-profile lawmakers feel about their faith in prisons, whatever they want to do or whatever they want to do with their headscarf, it's never the case. Where he's been, how he's been, if the congressman gives us information on this matter, we'll do it immediately, immediately, immediately.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0382par0263	I'll tell you right now, Batman.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0380par0264	If there's any irregularities, any irregularities by a public official, it's done immediately. Let them give us a location and a location on this, and we'll take care of it. Not in prisons, but in the religion of Islam, whichever religion he belongs to, our government has given every opportunity to worship his faith. If there is a flaw in this matter, it will be done if it gives us information. The other issue: The Turkish Parliament Commission for Human Rights Review of Human Rights has the right to go to the prison they've always wanted, and the ombudsmanship has the right to go to. Again, institutions related to studying international prisons are studying the prison they want in Turkey, they can go to any prison they want. And all these reports... are being examined by the European Union, the Council of Europe, all prisons by the international community. So while there are decisions regarding prison conditions -- all applications -- in human conditions, I would like to point out that the accusations of our friend, a member of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, as the ECHR looks at it like this -- are inadmissible. Wherever they want to go, all of our MPs are allowed to do so within the framework of the Human Rights Commission. As we said earlier, I spoke for three hours about the allegations of an MP, and all these claims were expressed there, and I gave them their answers. Of course, when a public servant is being served where there is a public service, if there is a lack of public service, if there is a negligence or a intention, Turkey is a state of law, which requires administrative, judicial, all sorts of prosecutions, and anyone who has done wrong in that matter, we do what is necessary, we do what is necessary, we must, the state of law shall inform it. Beyond that, all these statements, after all these information were given, were generally stated to be deformation of certain environments to their perception of Turkey, or wherever you come from, all claims about a human life should be investigated to the end, of course. Turkey is the state of law. They're all being answered. We also stated that the deformation of this statement was used in a similar way by the organization we're talking about, or three hours by our General Manager -- who himself is here -- that they're expressed -- that if there is a point, our Ministry, the Prosecutor's Office, is already doing the necessary inspection. I respect the knowledge of the General Assembly. Dear Islam, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0383par0270	Mr. President, I have a short 60...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0384par0271	Mr. Godkulu, 30 people like you have entered the system and I can only promise in turns. Here you go, Islam.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0385par0274	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, what I'm saying is that what Mr. Hüda Kaya is standing on today is based on information that I've received directly from him. What I'm suggesting is that I've suggested to our friends with the AK PARTY: "Let's go together, let's go quickly, and let's look at it in place.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0386par0276	Which prison?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0385par0277	Now, the point is that since we were kicked out of our work with the KHK, we've already been involved with the problems of the KHK people, and we've been getting a lot of complaints about it. It's not a cover-up, cover-up, it's a serious investigation of events.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0386par0278	I asked him where.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0385par0279	Now, ha, my offer here is clear, too, we MPs, non-group political parties, can't get into any commission. Oh, other than that, don't look into any of the departments of the state in this country, any departments that represent this nation unless it's a secret.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0387par0281	Please complete, Mr. Islam.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0385par0282	Thank you. A member of parliament has the right to examine and report on any department of the state, regardless of whether it is a secret from the nation; the nation has given us that authority. Oh, I don't think that's... I couldn't get into the third airport construction site, as an MP, the gendarmes cut me off, the gendarme squad. What I'm trying to say is, don't say that they're propaganda. Why don't you let me pay you a visit to prison? I have seven applications, why don't you let me? I want answers to these. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0388par0286	Thank you, Mr. Jahan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0389par0287	Mr. President, address, which prison?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0390par0288	Mr. Secretary, he's making all these statements here, but we can't get into prisons right now.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0388par0289	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Please, Mr. Gergerlioglu... Please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0391par0292	But all these explanations aren't true.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0388par0293	Here, word demands are made by entering the system, and I promise in turn to the first people I've detected from the parties. We can't make any more promises in budget talks. So we can't always meet their demands. We consider the demands we see here in the system as fair as possible. Thank you. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Now it's time for the talks on behalf of the CHP Group. The first statement is from İstanbul MP Gökan Zeybek. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0392par0347	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm starting my remarks on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization budget. There's a law that was passed in 1983, Act 2981. This law provided an arrangement for the removal of the property of public land or the slums of the foundations, which had been made in Istanbul and all over Turkey in violation of the Imar Law, based on the law, during a period of time. Now, this law expired, but in 2013, the legal length of the law was extended to the Turkish Grand National Assembly for five years, and then it was extended again. At this moment, tens of thousands of people are asking when will the people who have received the deed of the deed have taken advantage of the zoning pardon, according to Law 2981, and have received the deed of the deed? At what price? How long do you think your power will keep people waiting to get their deeds on the street tracks? Can you imagine, for fifty-six years, people have arrived, settled in a region, settled in a dwelling, were born, married, removed the funeral of their elders, yet, in Istanbul, where the numbers are so dense, they still can't get the deed of property of their rights, in the 13th districts of Baltaliman, in the districts of Sarıyer, in Skopüdar, and in Beykoz. According to Law 2981, they still don't get the deed of property of their rights. Yeah, we're talking about the Department of Environment and Urbanism. The ministry -- the former ministers are also here as MPs -- has brought up a very naive concept under the name of a local transformation, but now the concept of a local transformation has become an app that has victimised tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in Istanbul, has displaced them from their homes, from their homes, from their squatter owner's apartment. It became so legal that by Law 6306, a legal arrangement was introduced under the name "Central Transformation." We're going to give you some examples of this law right now. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanization wanted to do the urban transformation himself. So, what did he do? Where, what did he do? So, they did an urban transformation in the ideapepe, in the ideapepe. People live in tents because their houses are destroyed, and the contractors cannot pay the rent. This is a typical example of the idea of urban transformation of the Justice and Development Party; in the back, there are skyscrapers made with 4.5 real precedents made by AKP developers, people living in tents because they lost their homes in front of them, because they had no place to go. Another problem, dear friends: The Justice and Development Party had an eyeful municipality in Istanbul, the city of Esenyurt. In 1984, the population of the 50,000 inhabitants of Esenyurt (Esenyurt) is now population of 1 million people. There is a mayor of Esenyurt, who has been dismissed on grounds of charges, statements, investigations, at the time of the dismissal of certain mayors. And now, there are over 30,000 victims in Esenyurt, who can't afford their house, who have paid for all their payments to the building that he entered. I'm offering you a proposal from Parliament to solve the problems of more than 30,000 victims: you've taken from the people who took from them what their victims were going to receive. And ye took all the goods of the border: and ye paid unto him that was slain, and laid hold of it. Now, from all these unfair practices in the city of Esenyurt, especially the mayor's office, where you know very well, and the public knows very well, to seize the property of your allies, and please uphold the rights of more than 30,000 people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Another problem, dear friends, is that I would like to tell you about this arrangement that the Party for Justice and Development has brought under the name of the local transformation. By the time they finish, there will be more than 10,000 dwellings, so 40,000 people will live. İstanbul Civility University was also brought there, where 10,000 people will live; 50,000 people will live there. Imagine that 50,000 people will live in the one-way neighborhood, perhaps a road of 5km [5 km] long, and that will make both Okittepe and Göztepe and Ankara Asphalt. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism does not solve the poor's problem, but Altunizade is in a pen for the Esta Project, removing the area that needs to be wooded from the area of the tree and taking it into the housing area. And in return, they create an area of $1 billion, 250 million. Dear friends, this is the House of the People, the House of the People, the Assembly of the People who came in the elections with the people's votes, and the House where decisions were made on behalf of Turkey. But this Parliament is not the only parliament in Turkey. Once again, local parliaments are elected by the votes of our people and offer solutions to people's problems in the local community, where the planning of that city will be made. Turkey's Constitution is a guide for strengthening local democracies and for delivering services to citizens by the hands of local governments. But now, the Justice and Development Party is increasingly pushing a centralist understanding in front of us. It reduces the powers of local governments, interfering with local authorities' ability to plan their own destinations. He gives the Ministry the authority to plan, to regulate licenses, and to approve licenses, including the pre-views and backgrounds of Boğaziçi, including special areas in the 23rd Article (6) of the law published in the Official Gazette, published on December 10th of last 10th. I thought we were going to spread democracy. I thought we were going to strengthen the local government. So words and actions don't come together. When you serve in the municipality, you will defend the ground, when you serve in the city, you will defend the ground, when you take charge of the TOKI, you will now nominate the head of the TOİKİ. Now, you will nominate the head of the TOKI (TİKİ) to a district in Istanbul, and you will nominate it to the Historical Peninsula; they will not eat, nor eat, precious friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The other day, there was an argument about the destruction of Skopüdar Kirazlıtepe, where we said: "You are evacuating people in a neighborhood, and you are first trying to tear down houses to evacuate them; and when the neighborhood resists, you destroy the mosque, which is their meeting place. The AKP deputy has objected. This, my friends, is today's photograph of the ruined mosque. What did they say? We destroyed that mosque, we'll replace it. Is there a mosque built? No. They didn't even remove the debris and debris because that rubble still looks like it was the first day when the citizens who lived there got upset and left. Dear friends, one of the most important laws the Justice and Development Party has recently passed is the law of zoning peace. If there was a problem with the law of zoning peace, law, regulations, registration, and the registration of structures that were contrary to its additions, it was a law that forgave them for a certain price. This is the plains of the Black Sea. A fundamental indicator of how a citizen uses the Black Sea's plateaus after the settlement peace broke out. Yeah, maybe it looks smaller, but these are the zoning peace laws, and that's what's become of the Black Sea. Not only are the plateaus of the Black Sea, but there is a directive given to them, even though the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is aware of all these complaints. What is it? Aman, money for the budget. No matter where the money comes in the budget, (Applause from the CHP rows) much more than the structures you will legalise with zoning peace will appear in the near period, I'm telling you very clearly -- as a problem. Dear friends, we are opposed to the authority of the TOKI (TİKI) to plan, we are opposed to the Ministry's authority to build. We defend democracy directly if a plan for a region is to be made. A plan process of direct democracy, which includes citizens living there, which directly supports and conveys their views, must be carried out.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0393par0362	Here, complete it, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0392par0363	Also under the name "Central Transformation" has been authorized by the Ministry, which means that Gaziosmanpaşa's municipality has victimised thousands of people at Yıldıztabia, Yenidoğan, Bazachi, Karlütepe, Sarıgöl - the neighborhood where the Roma live - and the head of the Bonds. Buildings were destroyed, people were victims. The city's gone, there's no contractor to do the work, but the citizen is desperate to know what his future will be. In fact, the bottom line, my friends, is that we're discussing the budget, the budget of 2019 is an interest budget. There's nothing left when you take out social security spending, national education salaries, security salaries, the health department's salaries. So today's accident is the main result of savings in the budget of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. Unsubstantiated signalifications are the main reason for unsubstantiated infrastructure investments, today's accident, previous accidents, and accidents that will occur after that. If you're interested in the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0393par0366	Bind your words, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0392par0367	We're talking about his budget. The budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- hundreds of thousands of victims -- is the budget of our Ministry, which will solve the problem of our people, dear friends, is even below the budget of the presidency. Therefore, Mr. Secretary, no matter what bureaucrats and officials of the Justice and Development Party say, 2019 will go down in history as a period of increased urban transformation victims, city victims. So I'm saying that this budget is a total failure in terms of urbanism, transportation and infrastructure, in terms of the commission that we're involved in. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0393par0370	Thank you, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0394par0371	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0395par0372	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0393par0373	Yes, Mr. Rich, you always want a word after every speaker, and I will, but your friends in the group are complaining more about the length of the talks. I promise again. Here you go, Mr. Rich, but let's keep it short.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0396par0377	Mr. President, it's too short because I have a few things to explain. I don't want it to go on, either, but that's the way it is. Now, in Mr. Zeybek's speech... he's been a member of parliament for many years... in Istanbul, as far as I know. Therefore, I think that the TOKI (TİKI) knows very well what kind of planning is going on. TOKI can't plan alone, like any of our institutions, it has to be approved by the city or by the Ministry. Mr. Secretary will give us more information when necessary. In that sense, of course, we do not accept to express the TOKI in such a secular sense. We also like his sensitivity to the mosque, a nice follow-through, but with the right follow-through. Cami -- we've read it before -- is here recently -- is a mosque that has completed its life. A mosque needs to be built again. Within that area, there is a mosque within the regional plan and a mosque will be built in the same place. I don't think it's possible for them to erase their own reputation by telling us that. After that, Mr. Nacmi Kadioğlu, our mayor of Esenyurt...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0397par0382	Yes, complete it, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0396par0383	It's too short... and I'll get right on it. Mr. Necmi Kadioğlu and I worked together for many years. Esenyurt has made our mayor. He wasn't discharged, he resigned for health reasons, and there's a treatment that's been going on for almost three years. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0398par0386	Thank you, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0399par0387	Sir, if I may...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0398par0388	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0399par0390	Sir, I'd like to ask Mr. Attorney General. Now, this is about the train crash, you know, our agenda and we're having trouble. The members of the group will often explain the truth in their speech. Mr. Minister of Justice, about this train crash, you said to us exactly when Congress first opened: "There was a great service brought to our citizens by the fast train and it was done with all modern, technological possibilities." But as we now know, the signalization system between Ankara central-Sincan has not been completed. Since it is not finished, the old system is run by a train. Mr. Secretary, are you really lying in front of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or are they deceiving you?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0400par0393	Mr. Secretary, you have the right to answer a direct question. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0401par0396	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, after our condolences on the matter, we said that our Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office has launched an investigation into the matter and has appointed three prosecutors. And from the moment of the incident, there's been a lot of work to determine the identity of the bodies by fast autopsy. After we've said what's being done about this matter, what's being neglected, what's lack of intention, what's going to come up with a judicial and administrative investigation, and we're going to follow it, so I took part of the sentence and read it myself. In this regard, it cannot be covered in any way, after coming in this morning with this sad event, at the temperature of the event. This was done with all technological possibilities, but where is the lack of public servant, technological deficiency, negligence, lack of supervision, whatever it is, the independent prosecution will investigate it in the deepest way, and we will be its followers. Therefore, wherever there is a flaw in this matter, whatever negligence there is, will be identified by the prosecutor's office. And we, the government, will take care of all administrative, judicial investigations in this matter. And when there's some information from our Ministry on that, it's very technical, and the independent prosecution is conducting this investigation. Now, what's missing -- we've been here all morning -- the prosecution will look into it, and we'll be his followers. Our government, our Ministry of Transport, is following that point to the end. Again, we'll bring information to the General Assembly when there's a new situation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0402par0399	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0403par0402	Mr. President, a couple of our esteemed deputies have expressed that our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is underfunded and that no business can be done with this budget. I'd like to brief you on that. Yes, in 2019, our Ministry's budget was earmarked at 2 billion 573 million. Of course, we have our ministry, our TOKI, County Bank, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, our real estate bank, real estate housing, and so on. We do business as a whole in the ministry, in the same way as our connected and relevant institutions, and, for example, for the next year, the budget of TOİKIE is now 9 billion liras, and 758 million of this is reserved only for land, nationalization, agreements and implementation projects in urban transformation. Again, the eight billion-dollar production grant was earmarked for implementation of these projects in the field. In addition, our General Directorate of the Provinces Bank -- which passed through the General Assembly last week -- is about to transfer part of its profits to urban transformation projects -- has also been published in the Official Gazette. We're going to charge $840 million for the urban transformation, and the transformation of 522,000 homes we've made so far, and the construction of about 840,000 dwellings by the Public Housing Administration, many of which are subsidiary and mid-income housing. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have already applied to the zoning peace process as part of zoning peace, and as of December 31, 2018, this process is being completed, and they have paid about $8 billion,300 million. We expect 13 million citizens to benefit from this peace. This peace also concerns structures built before December 31st 2017. Our environmental and urban administration and the Office of the Inspection Board of our Ministry are also in the field, in our footholds, in our districts, in our municipalities, making all kinds of surveillance on illegal structures. I'd like to say that these will all be destroyed in the process. The Public Housing Authority is not authorized to plan alone. The Public Housing Office can offer plans in public housing areas and in areas of its own ownership. This plan will also be approved by our Ministry or the relevant city municipality, in accordance with our President's instructions...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0404par0408	Mr. Secretary, you'll have a long conversation at the closing if you want to answer concrete questions here, closing other statements...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0403par0409	I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0404par0410	Of course I'll promise you, but I just wanted to make a reminder. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0403par0412	We're trying to develop projects that are in line with our history, with our culture, with our silhouette, so that they don't cross four or five times the new settlements, and they don't cross the existing urban transformations. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0404par0414	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0405par0416	Sir, for the record...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0404par0417	I want your position on the record with a microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0405par0419	Sir, I don't want to start a new discussion here. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, what we say here is important. Politically speaking, we can make each other believe, fool each other here, but what we've lost is our lives. This is what you said in response to the speech you spoke about when the group's vice presidents told us that these rapid train flights began before the latest technological opportunities for the speed train were completed. You said, "This was done with all modern technological possibilities." Now, in return, we've learned that modern technological possibilities are not being made. If what we've learned isn't true, okay, let's fix it, but if that's true, then this Congress is being misled. Dear President, I'd like to address you as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is being underestimated. The words of the leaders of the group in the Turkish Grand National Assembly are the words of our nation. We don't want to talk politics here. There are some events that are above politics, which is one of those events.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0406par0423	Pack it up, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0405par0424	Look, if this is a human error, there were 35,854 people working at State Railways in 2003, while today, in 2017, there were 17.243 people working. People's half-jobs have been terminated, removed. Other than that, there are no controls, other than signalization, and then, when there are accidents, we will find criminals. There are three arrests, not finding criminals. Anyone who doesn't get those three people to do their job as they're supposed to, that's the way it's gonna have to go. For the show, if you go out there and do a service that shouldn't even be in the service, then we'll get to the bottom of it if people die in return.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0406par0426	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Istanbul MP Emine Gülizar Emecan. Here you go, Mr. Emecan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0407par0478	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the train accident in Ankara, and to our wounded, as well as immediate healing. I'd like to point out that the State Railways can't be managed. In fact, it's not just the State Railways in Turkey, it's a lot of institutions that can't be managed, and I'll be there in a minute. Today we are discussing the final account of the 2017 budget of our three ministries and the budget of 2019 that will be used. What environment are we talking about? We're talking in crisis, we're talking in an environment where the economy is shrinking, we're growing 1.6 percent in the third quarter, so we're talking in a smaller environment. The only thing growing is government spending, public waste, interest-paying money. First of all, the budget of 2019 is a budget on the back of the low-income with a tax increase of 20 percent of the burden of the crisis. In this budget, we have an estimated budget deficit of 117 billion loans. Dear MPs, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Forestry have been merged. The budget of 2019 was reduced according to the total budgets of the two ministries in 2017, with a budget of 33 billion 744m euros earmarked. We also understand from these figures that the budget for agriculture and forestry has actually been reduced from the general budget. I'd also like to give you an example of the Court audit reports in 2017, because the Court's reports are important, significant negative findings related to the administrations of the ministries. State Water Affairs has not been able to calculate and collect the investment costs for drinking water on behalf of municipalities. In total, there are 4 billion 866 million and 493 million liras that must be collected in 2017. Because of the time-shortness, we can't access all the findings here, on this bench, but we're talking about a ministry that can't register its income, its costs. While you couldn't even run a ministry, developed countries moved to Industry 4.0 in agriculture. The world's agricultural sector is developing with technology, and agriculture is taking steps on education, social support and digitalisation. Dear lawmakers, Article 21 of the Agricultural Law in a nutshell say that the source to be separated from the budget cannot be less than one percent of the non-national estate. No. In 2017, 0.41 per cent were earmarked, which should have been given 31 billion euros. So between 2006 and 19, when we look at the right to the manufacturer, 154 billion, 850 million dollars, the government owes to the farmer, the manufacturer. Again, according to the Court reports, there was no analysis of the impact on these agricultural support grants, and there was no reporting. There's money for big projects, palaces, ranchers, but there's no money for our farmer, his fertilizer, his seed, his diesel. At this point, the AKP government's political preferences in agricultural policy must also be well understood. With the destruction of agricultural areas in our villages that have been converted into neighborhoods by the Metropolitan Law, you have caused a 15 per cent reduction in plantable farmland, but you can go and rent 780,000 hectares of farmland in Sudan. In Turkey, the majority of consumers are unable to produce enough food because of the cost. Currently, 20 per cent of our population in Turkey live below the hunger limit. Wheat is our strategic product. You boast of producing 19 million tons of wheat, but you import 50 million tons of wheat. We are now importing six times the amount of agricultural products we produce today. You handed over the nut maker to the Italian Ferrero Rocher brand, making FISKOBIRKYLIK useless. Due to the wrong policies in the nut, the average yield was 107 kilograms per year in 2002, while in 2018, it dropped to 78 kilograms per gram per grain. Organic agriculture is becoming increasingly common in the world, while we are far behind in organic agriculture and good agricultural practices. Animalism is almost at an end, it's dependent on the outside. When we were a country that exported meat, we became imports. Dear MPs, the budget of the Ministry of Environment is in the 2017 Court Report. The start-up grant was $1 billion, $823 million for 2017, while the expenditures amounted to 5 billion and 80 million as of 31/12/2017. There's an abnormal increase here. Again, according to the Court reports, there was no collection of revenues, such as property fees, the environmental contribution from the city's municipalities that needed to be collected. There's a lot of criticism. So it's a ministry that can't keep up with its budget, can't manage its income. So, how environmental is the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism? Environmental pollution and natural carnage continue to rise, our cities are being looted, and CED reports are not being carried out in many places. The Commission can't allow approval, incentives, structures and use of these projects unless the decision is made, and investment cannot be started and cannot be tendered for the project. The answer came. However, there is no need for the entire process of drafting the CED report on one or several chapters of the CED report, which has been cancelled in the 2009/7 General, and you can ignore CED reports in many places. Well, that's your idea of the environment, I'm afraid. 92 percent of our land is in the earthquake belt, valued MPs. The urban transformation has, unfortunately, turned into a ranta, especially in big cities. With Law 6306, not in the danger of earthquakes, Ranta-based areas were declared a risky area and reserve area, while both people living in those areas were victimised and those areas were sacrificed in Ranta. A few examples from Istanbul: Sulukule, Tarlbaş, urban transformation, Esenyurt, Fiklatepe and Kirazlıtepe. You destroyed the area of the earthquake in Istanbul. You have built malls, residences, and skyscrapers in 416 of 493 districts. Your current powers were not enough, so you took the authority from local governments to build plans for pro-government capital groups and gave them to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, the President of the Privatisation Administration and TOKI. The question has just been answered: the authority of the institutions within themselves is not important; the important thing is to take this authority from the local to the ministry, to the general ministry. Now, it is not enough, that you want to give municipalities the power to transfer resources to the mayor to build major projects by the pre-election party president, so that they can be able to give funds to the AKP municipalities in peace and quiet. In short, your 16-year-old AKP ruling Turkey has no environmental or urbanism left. Do you have any idea what project is going to bring you and the Ministry of Transport to history as an environmental and urban killer if you give permission as a ministry? The channel is the Istanbul Project. Dear MPs, the Republic of Turkey was founded as a modern, democratic law state. But as we come to this day, at the point of justice, for the past 16 years, we have been transformed into a country that has strayed from its goals. In good, right, and fair countries, crime doesn't grow, it decreases. It's possible to see this in the developed democracy, the rule of law, and the judiciary of independent countries. You brag about reducing the prison count and modernizing it, but you increase its capacity, and you don't say that. In your time, 60 thousand prisoners in 2002, the number of prisoners has increased to 240 thousand today. The goal, however, is to reduce the crime, to reform the criminal, and to reduce the trend in crime, to run the justice mechanism for everyone. Dear MPs, we are number two in the European Convention on Human Rights in 2017, following Russia's number of violations. Turkey's sentences against the European Court of Human Rights have increased 13 times in the last five years. The amount of $3.9m in 2012 increased to 52m TL in 2017 with a record increase.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0408par0502	Here, complete it, Mr. Emecan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0407par0503	And we haven't had a judge in two years who fits the criteria of the European Court of Human Rights. The third list presented by the Republic of Turkey has been rejected on the grounds that candidates are not qualified. This is another disgrace for your administration. Even there, seeking a judge who is close to power is an indication of the power's efforts to intervene in justice even in the ECHR. We should not be surprised, though, that despite the open ban on the Constitutional Article 138, I do not know the decisions of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, as I put an end to my words, I wish that our ruling lawmakers, one day, would not regret the right to a fair trial if they needed it, and at least today, to keep the interests of the country above all interests, I offer my regards. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0409par0507	Thank you, Mr. Emecan. In order to speak, Ankara MP Murat Emir. Here you go, Mr. Emir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0410par0512	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're talking about the Justice Department's budget in Turkey, where there is no justice, where the courts don't distribute rights, and when the judiciary has to deal with heavy issues. There's no trust in justice. Not a single person in Turkey can argue that justice, judicial independence and courts have made fair decisions, but the Justice Department is unfortunately at a point where, while crime is booming and the judiciary is under heavy issues, instead of solving judicial problems, it prides itself on opening prisons and increasing the number of prisons, and it's a very sad situation, dear friends. The problem is actually very simple: the problem is that the judiciary is not independent. Why isn't he independent? Because, of course, in Turkey, we've had a long-standing issue of judicial independence, but in your time, the court was completely tied to the court when you tied the judiciary to the palace with an illegitimate constitution. What do the judges think of the palace now, before they look at the file on their bench? What decision would the court like if I made it? Whatever decision I make, I'll be banished, or one night I'll be taken away from the court, the case, and they'll have to look at it. You may find my view to be exaggerated, but I would like to share it with you as much as I can with small examples. For example, there's a Man Island case. You come in here, you brag, we sentence Kemal Kilicdaroğlu to compensation. You say, "We've got three courts on this, three cases on this, and you've changed all three cases in one night." And then you say, "Our courts have judged and condemned you." Don't count on it, all those decisions will come back from the European Court of Human Rights, and everyone knows that. For example, there's an Enis Berberoglu case. Look, he made a decision that the court didn't like. As soon as the Court of Disputes broke that verdict, you and his committee dismissed that severe criminal judge, and then, after that, that trial continued to march on a minor that the court wanted. For example, there is one, who is very close to the palace; who owns the Time Journal, who served Fetullah Gulen. I was in the service. They have confessions. He complains, he goes to the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor says, "No, you're not a writer." Ya, there's a complaint. He's going to another prosecutor on appeal. The prosecutor is looking. Yes, this needs to be investigated. So, what are we going to do? They're taking that prosecutor on leave that day, the prosecutor who replaced him says, "No, no, no need to investigate, this can't be Fetullah. Look, there's a Roof case, there's a Roof case in Ankara; there's a judge's decision there; let's look at this person, let's investigate this person. But what does the prosecutor say? No, since it's in Antalya -- because he's a famous tourist, very close to the President -- there's no need to be investigated. He says it happened in Antalya. Can you imagine? So, who's the lawyer on this trial? Mr. President's attorney. Instead, you see, for example, one of the judges appointed to replace the current judges in the Man Island case, the President's brother, the president's brother, the rabia markings from someone's social media account. In this case, the Turkish judiciary is friends. Now, when the judiciary is in this situation, to cover your guilt psychosis, guilt, to cover your crime with Fetullah, no one will notice your cooperation with Fetollah, you'll be looking for a person from the Speaker's newspaper, the Republican newspaper, Emin Desertasaşan, the Right Way, the Gezi, five and a half years ago, who's already closed, who's afraid that you're already looking for something that your political power has already raised by co-exploring, but you're afraid that you're getting independent judgment in your nails, and you're not actually doing anything. For example, there's a Roof case, all the defendants are out, 72 defendants, 65 defendants on the run abroad. Look, you've silenced scientists, opponents, you've fired them, you've even banned them from leaving the country, but you've watched 65 Roof Case defendants walk out of the country. That's why your struggle with ▪ is a lie. Over 4,300 judges, prosecutors you've discharged, you're bragging about it, but I'd like to ask the question, who put these prosecutors in charge? Whose signature is on those D.A.'s orders? Who's the accomplice here? Of course, the accomplices of this, the ones who brought them there, the ones who submitted the judiciary, you and Mr. President, in the first place, have to go through a legal process based on a sincere self-criticism and even in its place. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0411par0524	Complete, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0410par0525	Let me talk to you about this 299. Look, I'm a politician. Is the President a politician? Yeah. You're already calling it the great politician. Its size is debatable, but there's no question he's a politician. Then why a special bodyguard? Why would something like this be done? You're allowed to insult my president, but you're not allowed to say anything to the President. Look, I'm ashamed to say what Mr. Nobleman said to the President General, and I'm sure you'll be ashamed. The prosecutor who didn't count them as a criminal, such as the lender, the loan shark, and sent a statement to the Constitutional Commission. Therefore, the President may want to do politics. May he be cleansed of those armors. If he talks like the party's leader here, or he's doing election rallies everywhere, then he should be protected as any politician, and he should compete on equal terms. That's what courage and courage require. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0412par0529	Thank you, Mr. Emir. In order, the Corum MP is in the Flood Köse. Here you go, Mr. Köse. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0413par0534	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your General Assembly. To our citizens who died in the train crash today, I wish you God's mercy and my condolences to your relatives. Of course, it was inevitable that such an accident would take place here, after the AKP and DP MPs rejected the proposal to investigate. Again, we have a martyr in Afrin, and I cherish him here. My dear friends, thirty-eight years ago, at the age of 17, Erdal Eren had hanged September 12th justice. Erdal Eren had hanged September 12th justice, but we see today's justice -- except for the first six months of September 12th -- is more biased and more enjoyable. Erdal Eren was hanged by September 12th justice after a fight for a fully independent, human and right-shared Turkey. I remember him from here, with respect, love, and longing, in the deep shame of not being able to build a fully independent, humane, and right-sharing Turkey. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] My dear friends, I said that September 12th passed justice, that the order of justice today was more biased and arbitrary. Yesterday, we went to visit Emin Desertabaş, Necati True, and other writers of the Speaker newspaper. Indeed, some of our proper lawyers, our proper lawyer, who lived through September 12th, said today's order of justice was worse, except for the first six months. Every speaker who comes out here, Mr. Minister, you speak in the mouth of the Fetulists in the social media accounts. He criticizes, responds, but we have seen that even Ertugrul Ozkok knows that he has no sympathy and even that Emin Desertabaşaşan hates him, but he says that his claim to being a ▪-manager will not go away. So the mentality that actually dilutes the case is, perhaps, right now -- the Minister of Justice may not have the knowledge -- is a strong focus of power in the Ministry of Justice. This needs a lot of attention. My dear friends, there is no justice in our country now. Look, in the past few days, after July 15th, we've taken the written note of a 70-year-old exam to make judges of AKP's attorneys, the mayor of the AKP, the mayor of the district and the manager of the AKP. Forty-five seconds of interviews led by AKP lawyers and executive lawyers. Look, right now, there are judges who can't write an acquittal verdict -- the easiest decision is to get an acquittal. Well, is it possible to expect justice from such an institution? So the justice of the Justice and Development Party, unfortunately, is not in our country. There's no justice in the state, the integrity system is down. There's no justice in the election, the dam is, the use of public resources in the election. There's no justice for a living, the revenue distribution is extremely corrupt, the income distribution of the world is one of the most corrupt countries. In a system like this, there is a picture of a prison resident that has increased by about 400 percent. See, the number of prisoners and prisoners, around 60,000 in the period 31 of 2002, increased to 260,000 on 20 November 2018. The most growing prison population in Europe is our country, I'm afraid. Good luck; they call it a little bit of a rich budget, but there's a huge investment in the AKP. What is this huge investment? The Justice Department is opening new prisons this year with a total of about 4,150,000 square feet of facial measurement. There was already a construction rate and a prison rate. All obstacles to prison construction have been lifted under a decree of law enforcement. We don't need grants or investment programs. However, we're still 120 percent capable of using the prison. Now, what you're going to say is that 120 percent of both prisoners are lying on top of each other and you're opposed to a new prison; isn't there a contradiction here? There's no contradiction here, fellas. If you don't change this corrupt order, you can't reduce the number of prisoners by building a new prison. New prisons give birth to new prisons. However, with the changes you've made in supervised liberalisation and execution arrangements, more than 500,000, 600,000 people are out there today when they should be in prison, although the capacity of prisons is 120 per cent. Of course, I said it's a broken order. I wish, on March 31st, the first signs will come, and one day, we will surely, surely change the order of justice that shames this country, or rather the order of injustice.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0414par0544	Complete, Mr. Köse. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0413par0546	We promise our people to change this order. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0414par0549	Thank you, Mr. Köse. In turn, Istanbul MP Zeynel Emre. Here you go, Mr. Emre. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0415par0554	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, the last year, when I made a promise here on the budget again, I said we couldn't agree on a fundamental issue. Turkey has major problems, but when we look at how these problems were born, it's basically education. As we were talking here the previous year, there was a table in the current education arrangement -- which can now be measured at an international level -- that goes back every year, and if we want to fix this painting, we have to invest in it outside inflation in the budget, but it didn't agree at the time, and so did this period. Now, we're talking about the Justice Department budget. We are at a time when trust in justice is down to 20 per cent in Turkey, when the history of the Republic of Turkey may be at its lowest. The budget from the budget of 960 billion euros to justice is $18 billion, not even 2 per cent of the budget. Well, dear friends, I've looked at how it works in the world, and I've looked at other countries' budgets, law, democracy, developed countries, and I've looked at the gaps, and I've looked at the revenue distribution, and I've seen that countries are richer, and even if we come up with a proportional number, they're spending five or six times as much money on justice as we are. And from that point of view, we can't correct the judgment until we get the point of view. Well, if anyone hears my speech, especially our constituents, who suffer too much from the judiciary, then maybe they'll say, "Well, that's a lot of money for this judgment." In two topics, we can only correct this issue: First, we need to raise a very healthy education system, a very proper legal system, people who will discuss the matter from a very healthy point of view, improve vocational education, improve the quality of the judge, unfortunately, all of this doesn't exist. And it's not going to get any better. Because neither we can produce high-end products, nor we can export them, and in the coming years, our children, unfortunately, will be able to pay our pensions, that's the image. Dear friends, now, I ask all MPs present at the General Assembly to put their hands on their consciences and answer these questions: Is there a fair legal order in Turkey today? Is there social justice in Turkey today? Is tax policy fair in Turkey today? Are we fair when we hire in public? Are public contracts being distributed fairly, or are they being delivered to the address? So when a country has changed the Public Contracts Act 186 times in 16 years, is it fair that the tenders in that country look like this? Dear friends, in this country, can you tell me, does the state stand fair against different beliefs and sects, and do the rulers approach in a fair way? Can people, workers, civil servants, pensioners express their thoughts freely, without any concern? There's law security. Can we say that if I say this, this will happen to me. Does he have anxiety or does he not carry it? Are they able to carry out their rights to organized, protest, demonstration rights, and their rights to universal law in the Constitution? When you're alone with your consciences and you answer these questions, I'm sure you'll all say that none of this ever happened. Dear friends, look, for 16 years Turkey has ruled the AK PARTI, and when you jointly evaluate the last election and referendum of forces, which have been heavy in the last few years, Mr. Erdoğan is the only one in Turkey, just like the chosen king; he has the law, he has the administration, he has the judiciary, he has the universities, he has the media, he has the media, right? Is he not responsible and responsible for bringing peace, peace, prosperity to this country in such an environment? Is he responsible for the current situation in the country, and can you question it? Look, you guys need to be able to do these interrogations so that Turkey can get out in the open. Every time an opposition voice opens its mouth, you've invented a terrorist group down there, a terrorist group from above, an enemy from the right, something like that, an onion garlic terrorist organization. Stop it!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0416par0562	Complete, Mr. Emre, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0415par0563	I mean, there's no way Turkey can get better with that perspective. When you've opened three basic titles, when you're demanding power, we'll fight poverty. You said, "We'll fight the law." You said, "We'll fight corruption." You said, "We'll fight corruption." Didn't you? Isn't there a serious increase in Turkey in all three of these topics, friends? Has corruption gone down or has it gone up? Has poverty gone up or down?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0417par0566	It's gone down, it's gone down.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0415par0567	All of this can be measured, we see. If the poverty limit is explained at 6,000 liras, if 83 percent of a country earns less than $3,200, did poverty increase or decrease? Prohibitions; there's almost nothing forbidden, dear friends. Look, while all this was going on, the Speaker's indictment came out. Frankly, I said, "No way! I've read that indictment." I've been reading all the recent indictments line by line, and I strongly recommend that the MPs read them. No one with a little legal knowledge will judge the names mentioned in those indictments by membership in a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0418par0570	Let's open it. Put him through, please, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0415par0571	So in a system in which law and justice have been wiped out, you and every member of this House have no legal security in any way, not in a healthy way, not in politics, not in a good way, not in the community. So I think it's helpful to consider the budget from all of these angles in a holistic approach. With these thoughts, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0418par0574	Thank you, Mr. Emre. Ankara MP Tekin Bingley is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0419par0579	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give you all my regards. All of my fellow lawmakers today expressed their thoughts about the train crash this morning. This is actually more than just an accident. As you all know, the basis for human rights is the right to live. This morning's and previous accidents are all violations of human rights, which are the basis of human rights, which is murder for him. Now, authorities and governments are trying to fabricate a cover for this accident. Some say it's a signalization error, some say it's an error in conventional tape, some say it's the fault of the 3 personnel. Among those who have lost their lives are our brother, the engineer, and I'm afraid that after a while, you'll be able to pin this accident on that engineer and get rid of it. My dear friends, when there is no democracy in a country, when there is no rule of law in a country, there is no mention of human rights or freedoms. Look, December is a very important month, a very important month for human rights, because the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted on December 10, 1948, and only five months later, Turkey signed the declaration, not too long, but only five months later. In many of the countries that signed that declaration, agreed to that declaration, democracy settled with all its rules, its institutions. Freedoms were never limited in those countries; in those countries, the rule of law, the fair trial was fully implemented. So, what did this declaration, signed by Turkey in five months or so, bring to Turkey? Unfortunately, like other countries, it's impossible to say anything clear because there have been dark times in Turkey, long periods of Turkey have been busy with coups; unsolved murders, attacks, massacres followed one another. And finally, after September 12th, a human rights ministry was established in Turkey, and we were very happy; at least our citizens had found a position where they could address their problems, seek solutions. The Justice and Development Party shut down this ministry after it came to power. Because AKP had no problem with human rights because AKP had no problem with freedom, because AKP had no problem with fair judgment and the rule of law. (CHEERING) What happened when it was turned off? Turkey has conceived much darker days than those dark times I was just talking about. Look, my dear friends, who have lost a child, are searching for his funeral, and he says: "If I find my child's bone, I'll carry it in my lap. " This mother has been treated like a terrorist. For years they've been symbolic of their mothers on Saturdays just to learn the fate of their relatives and children, sitting in front of Galatasaray High School every weekend for just a few hours, trying to send a message with pictures of their children. So, what happened? The government's baton landed on its back, exposed to state gas, treated them like terrorists. That's how the Justice and Development Party sees human rights. More than 50,000 rights to live in this country in 16 years have been violated. 3,432 prisoners and prisoners died in prisons in this country. Some of our friends on the stand are expressing the facts of the prison, but the minister and the interested object immediately: there is no problem. The problem is the mountain in prisons. This will not happen if you take care of the problems of the prison instead of raising words here, and you will rest on your conscience. But what do you do when 14,000 women are raped or murdered in a country?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0420par0586	Complete it, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0419par0587	And if that's insensitive, that's what the Justice and Development Party's justice is measured by. Look, my dear friends, in this country, there have been 20,000 crime murders in 16 years. These people worked under those difficult conditions for the sake of their bread alone. Even worse, an army was created much larger than the Armed Forces; it has an unemployed army of 6,300,000 people. How will these problems be resolved? As long as democracy and humanity do not have a sense of freedom and justice, never, ever will human rights be put into place in Turkey, nor will these pictures, which are the shame of Parliament, are carried from here. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] We have a brother, Eren. Our brother Eren is guilty of one crime. The opposition has fulfilled the need to become a deputy. He came out here and warned me, suggested it, and only opposed it. Now we're prisoners, now we're prisoners. (HPP) This is the shame of Parliament.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0421par0593	Mr. Bingöl, please put him through. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0419par0595	Thank you. Everyone was sympatheticly listening to him when he took the stand. So, what happened? In the process of resolving the secret, he was in the Dolmabah, and he was sent to Kandil. By whom? By the government. Well, where is it? He's in prison. That's a shame about this Parliament, my dear friends. It says here that authority is a unconditional nation. If this Parliament does not respect the will of the nation, who will? (Applause from CHP and HDP rows) Those who take office by choice leave by choice. This Parliament has eliminated its order. They held those who came with the election captive, troubled, and put them in prison. It's this period when lawmakers are most under arrest. This is the shame of all of us, dear friends. There's only one way to erase this shame, one way to rule democracy in Turkey with all its rules and institutions. If we can do this, if we can do this, believe me, human rights will fall into place. We have a President of Human Rights and Equality, who has made such a definition that it's mind-boggling. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A definition that human rights activists haven't thought of for a hundred years, even human rights experts, and you know what Mr. Chairman of the Institution says: there are domestic problems at the root of human rights. It's unbelievable. You deal with family problems, people's poverty, unemployment, education. The human rights problem is a mental problem, a problem of understanding. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0422par0603	Thank you, Mr. Bingöl. In turn, Istanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0423par0608	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. There are mechanisms for protecting human rights and preventing human rights violations. We can collect those mechanisms under six headings: 5) International mechanisms and institutions These are key mechanisms for protecting human rights and preventing human rights violations. When I compare the 1990s to these years -- I mean the 1990s, when you were so victimized -- it turns out that in 16 years, you defused these mechanisms, neutralized them and completely defunctioned them. You systematically turned Turkey into an environment that violated human rights. 1) The Parliament we are in is not pluralist, so it may be MPs and parties, but it's not pluralist because you don't listen to the voice of the opposition and you test the opposition with prison. You've appointed the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor as his guardian to the entire Parliament. Every conversation we have here and outside is under the supervision of that guardianship office, every conversation we have. I can give you a lot of examples, Mr. Secretary. 2) Unlike the 1990s, commissions were set up here, and those commissions were very effective. Reports from the Unsubstantiated Murders Research Commission, the Evacuated Villages Research Commission, are still referenced today. But even the questions we wrote in torture today are being rejected. So there's no Parliament. 3) Judgement: Right now, like a branch of the executive body, is not neutral and independent, but completely, completely under the control of the executive body and the palace. There are many examples, many examples. I told you the other day, Mr. Secretary. Go to the Falls Courthouse, look. How are these cases 37? He falls to the High Criminal Court, how does he fall? I just took a look at yesterday's case, the case against the Speaker's newspaper, which is 37. He went to the High Criminal Court. 37. High Criminal Court, 26. It was the High Criminal Court. 26. The High Criminal Court has fastly punished Demirtaş and Sırrı Sırrı Süzyya Önder, fast and fast, fined him in four months, five months, ignored the defence, sent the tapes, punished him at the beginning of September. Look, and then what happened? 37, who evacuated the President and members of the Association of Modern Lawyers. The members of the High Criminal Court have been disbanded, although they have recovered the evacuation, 26. The High Criminal Court was the 37th High Criminal Court. I can give you a lot of examples that the court committee has been replaced. How do you change the jurisdiction inside the courthouse, how do you change it? You'll take it to court within the year, put it on trial according to the type of cases and defendants. There are five committees within a court, committees based on the defendant and the type of crime that are being formed in the courts. You've dismissed the verdict, Mr. Secretary. 4) Media: More than 150 media members are currently in prison. You confiscated all the media. In the 1990s, there was media that could have reported eating feces, in the 1980s, in the 1990s, but now there's not a media body that could write rights violations, there's social media, and you've got it. Civil society, you've completely neutralized them, they're all in jail or they're closed. But the NGOs in the 1990s were at least creating a sensitivity to human rights violations, but now you've also seized civil society, you've confiscated it all, and you've completely neutralized human rights violations. International mechanisms, European Court of Human Rights, other institutions... There was a government environment that was ashamed of the European Court of Human Rights decisions. But now, I don't fulfill this decision and I don't know it. There's a government environment and there's a judiciary that fits. I'm just giving you one homework assignment, Mr. Secretary, homework: Check the District Court of Justice's Office to see if there are any other files that have been approved in three weeks, except for the file of Denizhattin Demirtaş, which has been approved within three weeks. I'm giving you another homework assignment.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0424par0626	No one can give us homework.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0423par0627	I'm also telling you: Is there any other prisoner, any other citizen, who has been sentenced to four years and eight months in the first place by the Selahattin Demirtaş? They've calculated it, they've written it down, no matter how much time he's been in, no matter how much time we give him, there's no way he's getting out. Therefore, there is no international mechanism and no law enforcement body that is ashamed of them.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0425par0629	Complete it, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0423par0630	In the 1990s, academic environments used to study their sensitivity to prevent human rights violations, but now, peace academics who wanted to do so are in prison. There are judges standing them up in court, not sitting them down. Look, it's forbidden for me to wear out armbands at the beginning of interrogation methods. My own testimony: No, you have the presidents of the criminal court who say, "He can't sit, he can't stand, he'll listen." You have presidents of the criminal court who humiliate them, play with their honors, and there's an academia in this environment that can't work on human rights. So what are you going to do? You'll be looking at your reports, no human rights violations, Turkey's a rose. There is no other ministry during your time, Mr. Secretary of Justice, where human rights violations were systematically violated during your time -- during the Justice and Development Party administration. So you will come, you will look forward to your future, but this will remain your legacy, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0425par0632	Let's tie him up, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0423par0633	Let me put this to you for the last time.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0425par0634	Here, put him through, over.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0423par0635	Finally, I say: "Look, all this will pass, but at least in the 1990s there were no so-called human rights MPs under the roof of this Parliament." (Applause from HDP rows) Do you remember from your first year as a student or as a student?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0426par0636	Mr. Godkulu, address the General Assembly. You're dealing with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0423par0637	To whom were the so - called human rights referred, and to whom were they told? But here now, lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party call the people who advocate human rights, the so-called human rights. Yeah, how much do you look like? How much do you look like?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0427par0638	You look so much alike.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0423par0639	Look, really, consider this a constructive criticism. Consider it not even a severe criticism, but a constructive criticism. Pull yourself together, there's a road ahead. Thank you very much, my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0428par0642	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0429par0643	Mr. President, that tone is truly unacceptable.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0428par0644	Mr. Commissioner, they'll answer now.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0430par0645	Mr. President, I have a request to make.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0428par0646	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0430par0649	Mr. President, thank you. We are ourselves, Mr. Godkulu. Everyone here is perfectly sane as well as monitoring the negotiations here and what's going on in Turkey. You spoke about human rights. Human rights are the most fundamental rights, of course, and we're sensitive to anything to say about it, but Mr. Godkulu will confirm me, the most basic human right is the right to live, life. (EC PARTY) Now that Mr. Godkulu says so, I'm giving him homework: Let him work, and let him come, and give a speech defending his most basic human rights to terrorism in this country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one other thing: Friends are talking now, and we actually have something to say after each conversation, but I'd like to make a few things clear, so that we don't interfere with the flow too much.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0431par0655	Of course.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0430par0656	Now, our dear friend, the Chosen King Erdogan, said. I don't know that kings come by choice, I've never read anything like that. I've never read that the chosen are kings.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0432par0658	Hitler came with an election!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0430par0659	The people choose, the people and the people in this country, the people in this country can always call back what they choose, the way is clear. Fuck it, call it, brother, fuck it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There is no state of law. Our friends say so. When the President criticizes the court's decisions, the same friends say, "Be respectful to the law."
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0433par0663	Put him through, Mr. Bostanci, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0430par0664	But when they come up with a decision that will be criticised by law, they suddenly say, "Yamama, execution, justice one." They say, "Mr. Erdoğan has ordered it." Decide, which one? Which one?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0434par0666	When we say it, the courts don't decide.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0430par0667	Crimes against women have increased. Who's in charge? ▪AK PARTY.▪ Have mercy. Legal employees go legally to punish and prevent crimes against women during the reign of AK PARTY, see what they're doing, friends, in order to prevent such matters.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0435par0669	Ismet Pasha is guilty?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0430par0670	I mean, it's not right, it's not right, it's not right, it's not right. Also, the issue of immunity... look, this Parliament has lifted immunity. Let's lift, lift, lift, raise everyone here. Let's say that at different times...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0436par0673	Put him through, Mr. Bostanci, please. For the last time, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0430par0675	And here, this country's elected Parliament has lifted it, Parliament. So while I'm considering all of this, I think it would require a careful language against Parliament and against its decision. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0436par0678	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0437par0679	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0436par0680	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0437par0682	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, of course, my teacher sometimes talks as everyone understands and sometimes he doesn't, and so do we.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0438par0683	It is, unfortunately, it is!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0439par0684	It's a matter of capacity.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0437par0685	Sometimes the words match, sometimes they're not related, but we respect him. Now, he talks about life's rights, he talks about basic human rights; if life is being extinguished today in Turkey, there is only one criminal if there really are no basic human rights, the AKP government with Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan in charge. There's a fundamental reason why this happened, because those who sat at the table for peace wouldn't have let terrorists through the border crossing in this dorm with their guns in their hands, if they really meant to make peace. Those who sat at the table for peace would not order the governors to ignore the terrorists digging the moats.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0440par0687	No, I don't.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0437par0688	Those who sat at the table for peace did not order that they should not touch those who put bombs in the vents when they were being put in the vents. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who issued this order, called the Turkish nation: "Yes, while we are conducting the peace process, the PKK has been strengthened and organised in Turkey." He is responsible only for this, his name is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and his government is called Justice and Development Party. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear President, if we have to act together against terrorist organizations, we have spoken in a court of law to remove the political feet of the Fetullahist terrorist organization from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The political feet of the fetullahist terrorist organization are the political foothold of whoever generalized the Fetullahist terrorist organization today and appointed the brother of the general who made the attempt as ambassador; it is called the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0441par0693	Let's put him through, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0437par0694	If we want to fight against terrorist organizations, the mentality of this country's chief of staff who fought the Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer cases is Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Justice and Development Party, which brought the Fetollah generals into office. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If we're going to talk about women's crimes, sexual abuse, if we're going to talk about the elections, you sent your minister to us before the public hearing of sexual harassment cases, and you said, "Come along about this sexual abuse and child abuse, and let's all sit down together. We all sat at the table, including our president. The elections came in, the law didn't come out, the minister didn't make a sound, your party didn't. If today there is sexual abuse in Turkey, if drugs enter children's primary school, there is only one criminal, the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0442par0698	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0443par0699	Dear God, I promise you your place.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0442par0700	Mr. President, there's been a very obvious taunt, so I'd like it off the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0443par0701	What words are you basing ridicule on?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0442par0702	Mr. Sezgin Godkulu, let him come and teach a lesson. He said something about right to live violations.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0444par0703	Not him. He said next time, come after work.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0443par0704	I'll tell you this, I promise you, please explain.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0442par0705	Mr. President, he's obviously been picking on you, and there's a very obvious bullying going on there, so there's a lot of bullying going on.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0443par0706	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0442par0711	Mr. Hodja, you have to take this as a lesson, as a criticism, but since you have no tolerance for criticism, you have no patience to say it here, and as a matter of fact, you're trying to draw it to another point to make it polemic. I don't come to those traps. Your ministers know what I do for a living before you get involved in politics. In Diyarbakir, I've had many -- many -- but -- talks with them about protecting human rights, protecting the right to live -- even lectured on them. You can ask your former ministers. So you should know that this is the last group to test me on human rights, to prevent human rights violations, to protect the right to live. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Secondly, let me tell you this: Look, Mr. Secretary, you are the president of the HSYK. It's not as bad a trial as this semester, so learn a lesson from them. Take what we say as criticism. Just look at the court essays that have changed in lawmakers' trial. He's released, the court's been disbanded. He made a determination about ByLock, Gaziantep BAM was distributed, Antalya BAM distributed. It's new, it's new. I'm talking about the Society of Modern Lawyers. He's got an eviction order, he's got it backwards, he's been arrested again, and he's been disbanded. He went to a consumer court, went to an executive court. Why did all this go away?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0445par0715	He'll go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0442par0716	Here's your decision, Demirtaş. Look, take this as criticism, Mr. Secretary. Look, governments, governments don't read decisions from where they're not being violated, they read from where they're being violated; where there's a violation, they read from that point. Now, you don't have any violations here, there's no violations here. Look, he didn't say that Turkey had never been in violation of Article 18 in exfilting, unsolved, forced loss, torture cases, these were done for political reasons...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0446par0718	Please make your commitments.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0442par0719	But with countries that were not even members of the Council of Europe for the first time, not members of the European Union, Turkey was convicted of it, and it happened during your time. Now, there's a court-ordered judicial climate of neutrality and independence. Well, you're there, you're not saying anything. Look, it'll be written to you. That's what I'm trying to say. Consider this as a law worker. That's not true. Look, was it the right thing to do back then? Didn't you drop the lawsuits from the NUYAP? He's going somewhere, he says. Wasn't it you who said it wasn't now or wasn't in the past? So now they're doing the same thing. They're doing the same thing. You're going up to the 5th floor of the Falls Courthouse, 25th floor. A hundred for heavy punishment. They tell the High Criminal Court that there is no delegation here, leave to the 10th floor, to the 7th floor, there is another delegation. I have just said, I have been an active lawyer for at least 25 years; I have not seen it in any period in Turkey. According to the defendant and the type of case, it's not going to happen, and it's happening in your time. Look, not with the reports you received...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0447par0722	It's over by heart...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0442par0723	You can't do it on notice, but send your inspectors to see the courts, how people are crushed. Write these down as constructive criticism. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0448par0726	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0449par0730	Mr. President, I'm afraid the device is no longer functioning. Thank you. Now, Naci Hodja said that the immovables were lifted. But that didn't happen. So we're still behind the proposal from the commission that you're involved in regarding the removal of immunity. We still support the removal of immunity from prosecution, corruption, abuse, embezzlement, irrefutable, immunity to cover all of this, outside the scope of freedom of expression. And despite that judgment, we say it very clearly. But it wasn't lifting immunity. Had it been so, the Constitutional Court would not have recently stated that its case had been lost or unreachable because of its decision regarding the train crash that the bureaucrat in charge of that period was now a member of parliament. Which means immunity hasn't been lifted. On December 17th and 25th, this Parliament set a will not to judge the ministers. There's no way we're running from judgment. We're behind our words. But there's a very clear double standard here. Only a special, additional 20 clause has been implemented against lawmakers of a party, and no one else has been tried for it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0450par0736	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0449par0737	Within two or three months, almost all of our representatives were sent to dozens of trials as if they had come out of the machine. Now, you committed the crime in 2013, you committed it in 2014, but all the proceedings came within two months. Why haven't the prosecutors prepared a statement until then? Apparently, a request has gone out, and the request has been fulfilled. There was so much work being done in such a hurry that... look, it was written about me, and then, interestingly, the precious MPs disappeared into a trial. Three trials came, and one of them disappeared. Do you know what that one said? The prosecutor's own statement, I quote, says: "To speak in the hall where the picture of the Kurdish public leader, Ocalan. " That's exactly the expression. I realized in a hurry that the cut was prepared to copy. And then I shared it with the press, and I said, "There's nothing in the context of my speech, but the testimony in the trial itself is the subject of trial." Dear friends, then that prosecutor was dismissed, but he's the prosecutor, and the judge on the other cases also turned out to be the police who filed the reports. Mr. President, I won't extend it, but I'll give you two more examples. Look, Dilan Suryet Taşdemir is now our MP. In one case, he was tried and acquitted for a speech in Antalya.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0451par0742	Complete it, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0449par0743	The prosecution approved the acquittal. Then the prosecutor made the case to retrial -- it's going to be a subject of law history, it's going to be a subject of course -- and he said he couldn't reach his address -- twice, he asked the CMK for a lawyer -- he didn't send it to his home address, he didn't want a lawyer from CMK -- and he issued a warrant to arrest Dilan Diryet Taşdemir because he didn't show up for the two hearings. Dear friends, how does a prosecutor get a retrial for a case where the bill ends in acquittal, and how does he continue to retrial without a trial? At the moment, the lawmakers have decided to stop the trial, and then within a month, the same court has decided to resume the trial. Now, we're going to think about how these courts make decisions that are independent, neutral, fair, equal. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0451par0745	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0452par0748	Mr. President, thank you. At the entrance of Mr. Ayhan Bilgen's speech, we are in favor of removing the immunity. He stated that their attitude towards removing immunity in general has continued. I also see it as a trust in the judiciary. Because if he had believed the criticism he was saying immediately after those words, then I don't think he would have made such a request for the removal of immunity. I thank him in that way, first of all. That matter, of course, is also negotiable. My dear friend, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Engin Ozkoc, I believe, has expressed criticisms outside of the scale, because he was a little offended by my speech, that he is very extravagant, beyond the bounds of illness, that he is the subject of abuse against women, children, and that he is the author of the EC PARTI. He knows his acquish, his knowledge, what processes these things are in, and the common sensitivity to these matters in the House, and he knows the work being done.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0453par0752	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0452par0753	Besides, this matter, I assure you, has been discussed a lot in this Parliament, has been discussed a lot. I don't find it very helpful to argue on a similar route, but our people are taking a political note of everything, what's been done, what's been said, their attitude, their attitude, their engagements, everything. I see the notes that have been given so far, in this frame, as notes of the public's justice and knowledge on this subject. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit05spe0454par0756	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0454par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 The commission is in place. We stayed in talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. The line belongs to Adana MP Ayhan Gunitan. Here you go, Mr. Gunpowder. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0455par0056	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We are gathered here today to discuss the budgets of the Agricultural and Forestry Ministry and its institutions. During the AKP administrations, six ministers ruled the Ministry of Agriculture; none of these ministers, except one, are professional experts in agriculture. There are economists among ministers, architects, Islamic institute graduates, general surgeons, business graduates, but unfortunately there are no agricultural engineers, food engineers, water products engineers. However, let's face it, he was a vet who did the longest Ministry of Agriculture in the AKP era. In 2012, the French Ministry of Agriculture saw a success we hadn't seen, and he was given the Knight Liyat Order at the Farm in Paris. Why did France give this award to the Turkish Minister? The answer, my friends, is because of his support for the French farmer. Why else would another country's Minister of Agriculture receive such a reward? So we shouldn't be surprised at the point of agriculture and animalism in our country as a result of this kind of agricultural policy. Members of parliament, the real truth that shows AKP's view of agriculture is the part of the budget that is separated. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs were merged into the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The central budget of the 2 ministries combined last year is $36.4 billion. The budget now reserved for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is 33.7 billion TL. Starting with the presidential budget in this parliament, the budgets of all ministries have been increased, while the Ministry of Agriculture and Forest should be given a natural increase over 36.4 billion, while the budget of last year has been significantly reduced by 7.41 per cent, which is 2.7 billion. I would like to point out to this budget that Mr. Secretary should remain silent. Minister, if you're there to protect and protect the farmer's rights, if you can't save your budget yet, how will you protect the farmer? This is how AKP cares about agriculture, forests, farmers, producers, agricultural industry. The producers who did not make money because of AKP's agricultural policies quickly moved away from production and agriculture. Our country's agriculture has been finished while our farmers have been sunk by rising production costs. Our country has been made a clear importer of agriculture. In 2002, the GDP was reduced to 5.9 per cent in the first half of 2018. 2.8 million farmers were reduced to 2.1 million farmers in 2017. In 2002, farmers' debts increased to 4.5 billion euros, while farmers' debt today rose to 109 billion TL. Moreover, the price of diesel, fertilizer, pharmaceuticals continued to rise, while cotton prices were reduced from $4.5 to $3, the support was insufficient, and the narciatrist went down from $1.5.2 to 60. In addition, these products we export to countries like Russia, Ukraine are being shipped back to our country by ships due to political crises. Hence, citrus manufacturers are looking for new markets. Farm troops in Adana, producers, ask for DFI support, incentives, low interest loan support, and expect support from the Ministry for opening up to Far East countries, particularly the People's Republic of China. Members of parliament, the 21st Article of the Agriculture Law, issued in 2006, should not be less than 1 per cent of the support given to the farmer. It is said that 1 per cent has never been given. At this time, the farmer was not given support, but an obstacle. The total farmer will receive 154 billion 850 million. Valuable lawmakers are agricultural engineers, food and water products engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians and technicians who are the cornerstones of the agricultural sector, which AKP has ignored for years. There is no appointment for technical staff in this budget without the Minister as an agricultural engineer.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0456par0065	Here, finish up, Mr. Gunpowder.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0455par0066	It's not a burden on the budget, but our young colleagues send hundreds, thousands of SMS and e-mails each day for their appointment. They're stuck with the good news that's coming out of here all day long, and they're waiting. If these very difficult trade groups are not going to be in the budget, when and where are they going to be? Isn't the statement of Mr. Fakibaba (the AKP) who promised to appoint 10,551, the word of Mr. Fakibaba (the AKP), and the word of Mr. Fakibaba (the State) at the same time? When will you fulfill the Minister's promise? We want dates and numbers. And as an agricultural engineer, I want you to know that I will continue to pursue this matter. Congressmans, with this budget, import dependency will never end, with this budget, food safety and food sovereignty will never be restored. This budget will not provide a solution to the problems of the agricultural sector, nor will it make the debt-ridden farmer smile. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0457par0070	Okay, put him through, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0455par0071	Because of all these reasons and facts, we call this budget no. I thank you all with respect.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0457par0074	Thank you, Mr. Gunpowder. Now it's time for Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Gaytancioğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0458par0079	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were not supported by farmers in the 16-year AKP administration; they have about 150 billion liras, due to the law, due to the Agricultural Law. The farmer was borrowed, as well as mortgaged loans began during the AKP administration. You discovered the import runt. You've made the peasant unprovoked. You didn't protect nature. You ransacked the parades. Wherever there's first-class farmland, you've built and plundered thermal plants. You've handed over the domestic sector to global capital. You sold sugar factories like fathers. You've always fooled the farmer. I'll give you half the Mazot. You said, you didn't. We're locals, we're nationals. You said you imported everything. You've never followed the liakate. Most importantly, you have offended the villager whom Ataturk has called him, and you have emigrated him. So, what happened with you and Turkish agriculture? This is the first time we've ever been Turkish people eating anthrax meat. We're talking about a Turkish person who feeds on genetically modified organisms. We're talking about a Turkish person sentenced to starch-based sugar. Thanks to you, a first in the history of the Republic, the price of bait has exceeded the price of milk, and you've succeeded. Agricultural ministers who don't understand agriculture have been appointed in your time again. Since 2008, this farmer has sold wheat for 80 to 90 cents, unable to sell wheat for $1, but you have managed to buy the same wheat from Russia for 1.5 lira. You sold the sugar mills, and condemned the master of the city to the suburbs. Dry beans, chickpeas, lentils, which used to be poor food, are now from Canada. Potatoes, you caused the onion crisis. It is your time to buy back the potatoes we sold to Russia. You've only paid for sunflowers, soy, wheat, corn, live animals, as much as we pay for red meat. Yes, that's what you've accomplished, but you'll go, the Republican People's Party will lead the Turkish agriculture. What are we gonna do? There's no need to criticize you anymore, you're leaving. Look how the Republican People's Party will run this country. We will not import, we will not import, we will not import all the products produced in Turkey. We're not going to import corn, soy, tobacco, cotton, any of it, we're going to make it for our farmer. Don't we have land? We've got land, 40 million acres of land. We're going to do production planning around here, where we're going to build modern villages, where agriculture engineers, food engineers, veterinarians, water products engineers will work. You've shut down 17,000 village schools, we'll open them all, we'll bring the villagers to light. We're going to lower the prices of all entries, especially the price of diesel, and we're going to give the farmer the diesel at $3. There will be government intervention in product prices. No, leaving the farmer to market conditions will now be the farmer's black-day friend again, just like the days he was founded. We'll erase the interest of the farmer's debt, and we'll divide the rest of the principal money into four years and comfort the farmer. We're going to make the manufacturers' organizations their successors. For show, we have reserved some space for you. We see the manufacturer, not the maker, and we see him as the master of the nation. We're going to employ agricultural engineers, vets, villages, counties, farms, stables. Because we think that the village of Ataturk is the master, the master of the village that produces it; if we want a country that produces it, we have to do it. Otherwise, Turkey will be an imported paradise.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0459par0083	Complete it, Mr. Gaytancioğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0458par0085	If we don't do this, look, I'm going to make a big deal out of it, and the Minister will say, "No, you're lying." Why is Turkey facing famine next year, and why? You gave the fertilizer a 100 percent increase, then you gave it a 10% discount, like it was farmer's blood. Again, I don't know if you followed him a few days ago, but most of the fields couldn't use fertilizer. So how are we going to make bread, how are we going to make wheat, how are we going to make flour, how are we going to feed, how are we going to make bread, how are we going to make flour? You're going to import. You're always applying for imports. But in Turkey, production will drop by 20 percent. Imports are inevitable in a wheat farm that doesn't use fertilizer at the base, and efficiency is inescapable. You couldn't see it. You've made the farmer unable to produce by lending him more, but in return, the consumer will be in a difficult position. I'm telling you now, this is a warning, take your precautions seriously. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0459par0088	Thank you, Mr. Gaytancioğlu. Now it's time for Manisa MP Bekir Başevirgen. Here you are, Mr. Prime Minister. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0460par0093	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Agriculture budget for the 2019 Central Management Budget Law and the Constitution of the 2017 Central Management Act. I salute the General Assembly. First, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the train crash in Ankara today, his condolences to their relatives, and immediate healings to our wounded. In 2018, you set aside a budget of only 23 billion 700 million dollars for the Ministry of Agriculture, which had 36 billion budgets. Which means you're not going to take every step you didn't take to benefit the farmer last year, you're not going to make the investments you didn't make, you're not going to pay for any incentives you didn't pay. So no more investments in agriculture. With this budget, there's no way we can take the right steps towards farming and production. Mr. Secretary, you have an agricultural policy that chooses not to produce rather than produce and supports imports. Unfortunately, with this policy, we even have to import products that we can grow in our own geography. The European Union still supports agriculture with 40 per cent of its budget, while our agricultural budget is about 2.5 per cent this year. Until 16 years ago, we have seen how to destroy agriculture from a country known as the country of agriculture, which was studied in textbooks as one of the five self-contained countries. Dear lawmakers, Article 21 of the Agricultural Law states that the budgetary funding for agricultural support programmes can't be less than 1 percent of the non-employee. • Despite the change you've made, the proportion has not reached 1 percent of the AKP government at any time. 154 billion, 850 million liras from 2006 to 2019, which farmers will receive from AKP governments. You owe a lot more to the farmer than the Ministry budget we're talking about right now. Mr. Secretary, I'm speaking to you from here, as well as fertilizer, diesel and seed, the support paid to the farmer every year by your Ministry has not been paid this year, and there is no telling when it will be paid. According to a statement issued in September by State Water Affairs, the already inadequate state support will be cut off, and the watering, business and maintenance fee will be collected from the Ministry of Agriculture, which they cannot afford to pay the farmers who will receive agricultural support. The ministry will drop the farmer's debt before the amount it must pay, then pay. You don't pay support for most agricultural products, and when you pay it, you pay it out of the farmer's debt. You're really putting the farmer on the spot. Mr. Secretary, the supplemented product pens aren't enough either. For example, you support olive oil, but you don't give it to olives. Of the 900 million olive trees in the world, 170 million, one of the six olive trees is found in Turkey. Our country produces 16 per cent of world production in the olive table and about 20 per cent in olive oil, but for the first time, oil was imported during the AKP government. It's a betrayal of the country and of the farmer. Then grapes... the livelihood of our farmers, the bread gate, the indispensable economy, the grape maker, the victim, the cost is rising, the labor can't be compensated. Honourable lawmakers, the fertilizer has become so expensive that the farmer now sows without fertilizer. Increased currency was made as an excuse, but the price didn't go down, the price didn't go down. It can't be sprayed against disease and pests. In this case, the amount of products will drop, which will reflect on the labels, and the consumer will consume agricultural products at great cost. According to a statement published in the Official Gazette, some agricultural products were required to import exports. Agricultural industries, which bring billions of dollars to the country from abroad, will now be able to export raw materials as much as it imports from abroad. This practice is going to hit the economy and the export revenue of billions of dollars in agricultural industry, which provides life water for employment during this economically difficult time of our country. This will only increase the wealth of a handful of import lobbys while impacting our local manufacturer's production and the national economy. Members of parliament, the strong economy is with modern agriculture and skilled engineers rapidly developing. The appointment of 10,551 people during the ministry of Mr. Fakıbaba was still not fulfilled. Employment policies are not the ministers' initiative. Agriculture engineers, technicians and technicians, food engineers, forest engineers, veterinary physicians have been waiting two years with hope for a single word from you. Employment policies are not the ministry's initiative.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0461par0105	Complete it, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0460par0106	Look, there are cases of mass poisoning that we see all the time. For reliable food, food engineer employment is necessary in the public, agricultural engineers are essential for efficient agricultural production, vets are essential for healthy animalism. Agricultural policies are one thing; until you reach the table of a citizen from field and pasture, you need people who are competent at every level. Now I'm asking you: which of these should we repair with this budget, which one should we improve, which one should we restructure? Is that possible? Absolutely not, but there's only one thing we know and we have to do, and that's to get the farmer back on his back and the agricultural sector back on its feet, which is our engine industry. I thank you all, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0461par0109	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Next is the speech of Mersin MP Genghis Gökçel. Here you go, Mr. Gökcal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0462par0114	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. First of all, I'm going to draw you a picture: the farmer did not benefit from production during the AKP period. Go to Mersin, it's a breeder, sold to a citrus for 50 to 60 cents. What's the cost? 60 cents. In the past years, Narencide export support has been 150 dollars in government over the past year, friends, you've reset it. Seeds, fertilizers, medicines, diesels, they're all import pens. The prices are so high that the farmer can't buy fertilizer and plant his land anymore, he can't drug his garden. The farmer ends economically, directly affected by the courtship surge. The farmer was cut off from agriculture during the AKP period, angry at production. The farmer who didn't make it from the crew was shrugged. 500,000 registered farmers in the AKP's government have been cut off from the ground. Three million acres have come out of agriculture. Do you know why this happened? It was because of the agricultural support the AKP did not provide. Half of the Mazoth is from you, half of us. You said, "You have destroyed it all to the farmer." What does the Agricultural Law say? The support must be about 1 percent of the illegitimate national enemy, he says. How much was the national product in 2017? $851 billion. How much were you supposed to split? $8.5 billion. What did you separate? $3.5 billion. Where's the $5 billion the farmer deserves? You have not done according to the Law of Agriculture; you have done the farmer's rights, and you have pursued the partisans, and you have created import barons. Mr. Secretary, when you don't support the law, the farmer is in debt. Over the past five years, our farmers have borrowed an extra $1.1 billion each month. Agricultural loans -- $40 billion at the beginning of 2014 -- reached 110 billion. Every time you spoke, after 2002, we gave this much support, this much support. You said, "You stopped." The farmer's stuck in debt, it's an act. Since 2006, the farmer has received 154 billion liras from you. If you give that money to the farmer, there's no $110 billion in debt, and the $44 billion you spend on the farmer goes to the Department of Agriculture budget, which means there's nothing wrong with the farmer. Dear friends, farmers who couldn't turn back their debt have finally found a way to take their own life. In October -- three farmers every two weeks -- committed suicide because they couldn't pay their debts. You were busy raiding the onion warehouse, by the way. From Aydin, to Kırşehir, to Tekirdağ, from Kayseri, to Tekirdağ, to kill farmers all over the land. You're not implementing structural reform in agriculture. Suicide rates are going to go up. Hal's Law won't be a cure, I'm afraid. I condemn your power, which does not give the small farmer the support they deserve - to keep them in production. The plague of those who take their own lives is upon you. Mr. President, what happens when the high-value lawmakers pull out of farming? Every product is imported from grain to grain, from meat to milk, and unscheduled. You imported more than enough and destroyed the market. You've offended the local manufacturer. You couldn't sell 20,000 tons of meat you imported, so it's in storage. The Institute for Meat and Milk thinks, "Where am I going to put them?" You can't find a country to sell the 300,000 head of cattle you import. I'm asking you in particular which of your allies is benefiting from animal imports. Come to the Turkish manufacturer waiting to cut off his animal three months later. These animals are alive, every day they stay in the barn, plus the farmer's cost, causing trouble to the farmer. It's not over, it's going to be a harvest of plant products, the farmer's waiting for the prices to clear, he's waiting for a guarantee of purchase. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, it's very important, I want to finish.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0463par0122	Go ahead, Mr. Gökcal, complete.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0462par0123	The Ministry says I'm going to import the product. Wait a minute, let our own farmer win, import if need be. No one says, "If need be." Let him repent of what he has planted, what he has planted." That's your agricultural policy, make you regret it. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs merged. The two were worth 36 billion, 400 million last year. For 2019, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry requires a budget of 33 billion $743 million. There's almost $3 billion missing. Where is he? They were tightening a belt. First, tighten your seatbelt, end the waste; and do not cut down the poor farmer, the peasant. The entire agricultural budget does not even amount to one percent of the non-employee. In this case, the budget is salt to the wound, not ointment to the farmer's wound. Dear Minister, here, to the Bank of Agriculture in particular... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, this is very important.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0464par0128	Yes, but put him through, this is the last time. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0462par0130	Mr. Secretary, Agriculture Bank is doing this practice: Farmers are in debt, they need a loan again, they're going to the bank for this loan, and you know what the bank's officials say to the farmer: we'll build the loans, OK, very well, let's build them, but we'll build them with the current interest. If the farmer wins, we'll pay the debt on time. You stick to the farmer's throat because we have the opportunity to give him a better opportunity. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, you can't lead, not a farmer or a peasant sheep. He's got a right to the farmer now; he's got a representative, he's got a Republican People's Party to defend him. I salute and salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0465par0135	Thank you, Mr. Gökcal. On behalf of the CHP Group, the last word belongs to Özirdağ MP İstı Özcan Aygun. Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Aygun. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You look like you're going to be on the stand for a long time.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0466par0141	Yeah. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Central Management Budget Bill of 2018, Agriculture and Forestry Ministry. I salute your high council and our esteemed citizens who are watching us on their screens with love and respect. I'd like to start by saying how sorry and rebellious I am for the train crash today. While we waited for the executive to declare national mourning today, we did not declare national mourning again, and we did not do the national mourning that we did not today when we lost 25 lives in the July 8th train crash. Hopefully, as soon as the execution accepts our wish from here and declares a national mourning. May God have mercy on those who have lost their lives and speedy healing for the wounded. If there is another train accident today in Ankara, five months after the Edirne-Clark train crashed on July 8th, it is clear that the government of State Railways has failed to run a train. In the administration based on signalization, coordination and scientific data, our railways remained in the classroom, converted to the path of death by the AKP's hand. After the accident, an investigation is launched, almost identical witnesses are selected in all courts. This is the July 8th train accident; this is the train crash at Yenimahalle in Ankara today. Members of the board of companies involved in rail transport tenders, yes, and professors consulting with State Railways and Transport are selected to be experts and the administration is cleared each time. In short, we're billing a few poor people. I wonder what the ministers and officials would do if it were in another country in the world. Yes, again, we have Ergene River, which passes through Tekirdağ Province; Minister, we have Ergene River. Mr. Minister and three deputy ministers arrived in Tekirdağ in three months in a row, but in Thrace, our Ergene is still spreading poison. The minister of the period, he, like us, had Operation Dawn, which was announced in 2011, and yes, we were going to fish in Ergene. But let alone fish for three hundred percent of poison. It was not the dawn of the young man, but the darkness of the night. I expect our Minister of Environment and the Ministry to address the matter immediately. Yes, valuable lawmakers, when we get to the budget, it's the budget, unfortunately, to finish agriculture, to get the farmer out of production, to increase food inflation. I'm sorry to say that the budget is a series of national qualities that will raise agriculture, raise farmers, provide cheap and reliable food for our nation. Our nation is concerned with bread, as they say on the ground. Looks like we're gonna need some bread, too. Bread is abundant. No culture has a saying about bread and wheat as much as we do: "Buğday, sheep, and the rest of the game. " When he sells 1 kilo of wheat, he cannot drink a cup of coffee; he must sell at least 10 kilos or 10 kilos to drink a cup of coffee.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0467par0147	Are you drinking coffee at the Hilton?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0466par0148	Our farmers are 50% poorer than last year, miserable, in debt. My guests came to my room last week with slippers on their feet, winter day, waiting for our help. In 2017, yes, you performed on 6,867 farmers in 2017. By 2018, this number is already going to fold. Only a month ago, in Çorum, over a thousand of our farmers used loans from the Acupinar Agriculture Loan Cooperate were pursued. The government must immediately reconsider its ruling in 2018, expanding its scope and delay the debt of our farmers. During the time when large companies go to the concordato, it is incumbent on us to keep our farmers, who are Turkey's general food insurance, in production. Remember, if the farmer goes down, we all go down together, no doubt. Look, gas prices have increased by 23 per cent over the past year, while fertilizer prices have increased by 100 per cent to 130 per cent in the last 11 months. Many of our manufacturers have planted ground fertilizer without plant fertilizer. Feed prices, the most important entry pen in animalism, have increased from 2018 January to 50-60 per cent so far. Farmers and producers have given up now, they've begun to migrate, soon the villages will be ghost villages, Mr. Secretary. The number of farmers is constantly falling.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0468par0153	Here, finish your words, Mr. Aygun.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0466par0154	The number of farmers, 2.8 million in 2003, is now 2.1 million. In 2002, the farmer's debt, which was $4.5 billion, became $109 billion today. Yes, valuable lawmakers, we need to ensure that our forest villagers live in their homes with projects that will increase their income. In the study of relief in the forests, plants must be studied accordingly, considering the vegetation. When the good lawmakers can't make money on what our farmers produce, they start selling their fields. Unfortunately, the Ministry opens the door to projects that open agricultural land. Look, over the last 15 years, 32 million acres of farmland have come out of production. The wheat crops dropped 18 per cent from 2002 to 76m,688,785 per cent from 93 million. The field of barley has decreased by 33 per cent from 36 million to 24m 247,000. But while our population is growing rapidly, the most basic need for wheat production is diminishing.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0469par0158	Brother, what does that fruit do?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0470par0159	What's that red thing, what's that fruit?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0471par0160	Put him through, please. I'll extend one more minute.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0472par0161	Our population, along with the Syrians, has reached 85 million. Our population has increased by 31 per cent compared to 2002, while our wheat crops have decreased by 18 per cent. I wonder how we're gonna eat. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry budget still doesn't have a wheat projection according to the population. Look, we're three times more than European countries, so we're eating 150 kilos of bread per year per person. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that in 2018, the production of wheat will drop in TİK figures. So the price of bread is inevitable. This problem cannot be solved by pressure on the baker. As a matter of fact, when the bakers didn't give him a raise, he found a way to reduce the gram. As a result, the bread was raised in secret. In this year's harvest, the Council of Ministers again struck the farmer, as always, by ordering zero customs imports.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0473par0163	Shut it off, come to the fruit!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0472par0164	In the past, the farmer's land crop office, a black-day friend, brought sunflowers, wheat, corn during the harvest season. Again, the Meat and Milk Association has become more of an import company than a regulator.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0473par0165	Brother, turn it off and tell us about the fruit!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0472par0166	Again, would the mindset of importing the cure be national? Our fathers said, "There is no food that comes from your hand, nor does your wife eat from it."
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0473par0168	Tell me about the inspiration, the fruit!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0474par0169	Yes, Mr. Tanal would like that.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0472par0170	Dear lawmakers, climate change and rising temperatures show that food shortages will occur in the world.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0475par0171	We don't eat them, what does it do? You use it in cocktails?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0476par0172	One minute, President. Mr. President, give me one more minute.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0477par0173	Let's have a taste.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0478par0174	Mr. President, you've given other friends a say, and so do I.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0479par0175	Mr. President, we're curious about that fruit.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0480par0176	I've treated everyone equally, I've given everyone two minutes. Since he's the last speaker, look, this is the last time. From now on, I won't. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0481par0179	Let him speak until morning.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0482par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Friends, the famous Kissinger has a saying. The countries of Petrolle, you control people with food, for no reason. Our government is trying to destroy Turkish agriculture. So why aren't vets, food and agricultural engineers appointed the key to food safety? I'm asking when the promised 10,551 will be appointed. Again, our valued lawmakers were left in 2018, with 3 million,697 hectares.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0483par0184	Tell me about him.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0482par0185	If all this land was kept in agriculture with alternative product policy instead of nadas, it wouldn't have rented land from Sudan. You've privatized TIGAM land; it's not enough, now you've made the Dalaman Institute of Agricultural Research a tourist site. It wasn't enough again, your TIGEM...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0483par0186	Tell me about the fruit, the fruit, the fruit.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0482par0187	Guys, wait, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0484par0188	What are we waiting for?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0482par0189	You've sent 15,000 cows to the slaughter by TIGEM... to receive the transfer of embryos to provide for their breeding needs in Turkey. Well, my friends, the high-value lawmakers, we're becoming dependent on the outside of agriculture every day. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] According to our estimate of 2018, wheat production is estimated to be 7.7% from the previous year, 11.7 per cent in cooking beans; 20 per cent in lentils and 5.2% in potatoes. Unless power from production is activated, the farmer will not be able to prevent increased food prices unless supported.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0485par0193	Tell me about the fruit, the fruit.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0482par0194	While you're eating dragon fruit that's not in the market, you're drinking white tea, and you're seeing Turkish coffee for the Turkish farmer.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0485par0196	Where is it used, where is it? How do you beat it?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0482par0197	They, on the other hand, only want to drink Turkish coffee after the harvest, along with natural sugary Turkish marshmallows from sugar beets.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0485par0198	Where do you eat this dragon? How do you eat it?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0486par0199	Yes, Mr. Aygun, please finish. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0487par0201	As I end my words here, I salute the High Council with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0486par0203	Thank you, Mr. Aygun.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0488par0204	Mr. President, while we're talking about this fruit, Mr. Mahmut Tanal has asked a lot of questions, I'd like to introduce it to him.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0486par0206	Thank you, Mr. Aygun.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0489par0207	Mr. President, I want a word on this fruit.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0486par0208	I'll make a promise, but first Mr. Bilgen has a request for a word.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0490par0209	But he'll talk about this fruit if they let him.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0486par0210	If that's what this is about, I'll make you a little promise. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0491par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. On the first day of the budget, Mr. President, President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu gave a speech about dragon fruit. Today, the precious orator presented the dragon's fruit from the bench to the lawmakers and made a statement about dragon's fruit. Dragon fruit is a useful fruit; it grows in Mersin. We don't appreciate the fact that dragon fruit is a bad thing here. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Sterling farmers complain about it. Please, the Dragon Fruit versus the President of the Agriculture Room. It's one of the rare products where farmers make money, dragon fruit is not a bad thing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Both the Republican People's Party Group and the Good Party on the first day of the budget have shown its fruit as a bad thing. It's a useful product, and farmers make money out of it. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0492par0221	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0493par0222	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0492par0223	I've promised you so much, I've extended it. It doesn't matter, it's understood. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Bilgen had a request for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0494par0227	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers will address the General Assembly shortly, and I've just felt the need to share in the hope that we'll get some healthier information. Today, in the evening hours, after one of the gates of the King's Daughter Dam was opened due to extreme rain, I think it was derailed and completely derailed. Diyarbakır Governor's Office issued a warning concerning the evacuation of settlements on the Tigris River, but the information we just received is that the second cover has been derailed. Of course, we don't know if that's true or not, but at least we need to get some more healthy, accurate information because of the heavy messages we've been getting. From one hatch, 1,600 cubic metres of water per second is said to have been drained. There is also information that the second and third cover is risky. We'd be happy to share information with the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0495par0230	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0496par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0495par0232	If that's an explanation, please come in, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0496par0233	Yeah, an explanation for that. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is not true, but it's not true that the second door has been cut off. At this moment, 1,600 cubic metres of water per second is draining from the dam. We sent all the vehicles to the area, all the vehicles of the DSI. There's a certain amount of rising waterbed going on right now. There's no loss of life, and no loss of goods has reached us at this time. Our governor of Diyarbakır is in charge, and they've established a crisis table. There's no loss of life or property that's reached us right now. The subject has been followed by our side from the very beginning, but it is not true that the second cover has been opened; it is true that 1,600 cubic metres of water has arrived. We're following the subject. We'll explain later if there's anything important, but the governor's in charge. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0497par0238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Izmir MP Yaşar Kırpınar will now speak for himself. Mr. Kharpınar has requested a word in favour of the budget. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time has been five minutes, Mr. Centipede.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0498par0290	Mr. President, I salute all of you with love and respect, the esteemed MPs and our esteemed citizens watching us at the beginning of their screens. I have made a promise in favor of the general budget of our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. First, hundreds of dams, ponds, HES, thousands of irrigation and drinking water projects, wastewater facilities, flood protections, river reforms, animal drinking ponds were offered by the State Waterworks General Directorate after the 2000s. Because of these revolutionary services, I thank our ministers, especially Mr. President, to all the employees of our State Water Affairs General Directorate, and to offer my respect and love. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Forestry activities set a record for the 2003-2018 period, with a total of 16.3 billion Turkish liras. We're one of the few countries in the world that raises the presence of forests. We're still the world's first in preventing erosion and fighting fire. In fact, the agricultural sector is the easiest to criticize, has no flexibility; it is a strategic sector that needs the most efficient use of scarce resources, and in a way, not to be used in comparisons. As for agriculture and animalism, the biggest support for agriculture and animalism was given during the AK PARTY administrations. With these benefits, we are the world's 7th and Europe's 1st in agricultural revenues. Turkey is an exporter of agriculture, to put it bluntly. Today, more than 800 million people in the world are struggling with hunger, while at the same time 1.3 billion tons of food are thrown away every year, unfortunately, and hundreds of thousands of people are struggling with obesity in this sense. Some comparisons of the past are being made. In fact, I think it would be helpful to go back a little bit to be able to tell you that. Turkey, who missed its industrialisation train at the beginning of the 19th century, continued a modest farming operation with small farms that were not modernised in agriculture. It continued until the end of the 1970s, and then moved from villages to cities, which reached its peak at the end of the 1990s. Turkey also experienced the transition from agriculture to industry in developing countries. I would also like to remind you that this process is the subject of the pre- 2000 process, whether it is planned or not.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0499par0296	Yeah, you haven't ruled in 16 years!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0498par0297	The change in consumption habits during this period of communication and knowledge has also increased food access, consumption and consumption. At this point, I'd like to point out that comparing the 1980s to the present is not the right way. In the 1980s, the population of Turkey was about 43 million. Today, Turkey hosts about 40 million tourists, and our population has doubled. In 2002, however, the agricultural illegal domestic product was 36.9 billion Turkish liras, while in 2017 it rose 411 per cent to 189 billion Turkish liras. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will also show a vision in the presidential government system that will support sustainable development focused on growth and forestry policies. As a summary of the vision of our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the establishment of land collection, continued implementation of the agricultural-based basin system, the development and support of agricultural-based industry, the healthy production of product census, the development of brand products in food and food products, the development and development of products that create value-appropriate and support of agricultural-based organised areas, the spread of water and soil, has made the main issues our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0500par0301	Mr. Centipede, finish your words, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0498par0302	As in all areas, our ultimate goal in agriculture and forestry is to become world leaders. I hereby salute and salute your delegation with respect and love that the first budget of the Presidential government's first budget of Agriculture and the Forestry Ministry should be blessed.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0500par0305	Thank you, Mr. Centipede. On this tour, I will meet the request of three members of parliament who have asked for their seats again. First of all, Mr. Ozkan Yım.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0501par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of Justice, on behalf of all my friends, you know, our esteemed congressman, Eren Erdem, has been held in Silivri Prison for about five or six months. We have applied to your position and to your assistants five, six, seven times to visit our dear friend. Unfortunately, I can tell you that all our friends get the same treatment, and they all say the same thing. Why, before that, when we want to visit our friend, our request for a visit at once is approved, and now we ask for five, six times? I'd like an explanation for that. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0502par0313	Thank you. Mr. Huda Kaya...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0503par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, I'd like to make a brief statement regarding the agenda of 19 women who were detained in the raid on HDP province building, which has also been re-opened by our Deputy Jahangir Islam. These 19 women, all of them were open, all of them closed, and in Batman's Police Department, the anti-terrorism unit, despite all the objections and resistance, all the heads of these women are open for 24 hours completely, and they are insulted by these women, the unbelievers, the non-believers, the sexist, and the sexist, they are in very harsh blasphemy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want to say something. I'll finish right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0504par0321	I'm sorry we can't turn the mic on at the request for a say-so.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0503par0322	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0504par0323	Thank you. Mr. Enginyurt...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0505par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I ask for the mercy of our citizens who died in the train crash in Ankara today, and I pray for immediate healing for the wounded, and patience for the families of those who have received mercy. I'd like to remind Mr. Minister of Agriculture that the President is complaining about interest, high interest. Farmer's interest in agricultural loans exceeds 30 per cent, reaching 40 per cent when default falls. Mr. Secretary, will you be working on lowering those interest rates in agricultural loans? I think it should be because our farmer is miserable. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0506par0331	Thank you. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Ladies and gentlemen of the law, he's in line now. The first word for the executive is for Justice Minister Abdulhamit Gül. Here you go, Mr. Rose. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0507par0384	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to present the budget of our ministry in 2019. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly, all of our MPs. At the beginning of my words, I pray for God's mercy to our citizens who died in a train accident in Ankara this morning, and to the wounded for immediate healing. As a result of both judicial and administrative investigations, both the way the incident took place and the perpetrators, intentional, neglect or whatever the cause, will be investigated by our government until the end, and there will be all kinds of measures to ensure that accidents never occur again. Our Ministry of Transport is continuing all kinds of work on this subject, and, again, it will be shared with the public. I repeat, I pray for immediate healing to all our citizens, and I pray for God's mercy to those who have lost their lives. Dear MPs, to all those who strive to preserve and keep an ideal, an ideal of justice at the center of our minds and hearts, to keep and to keep the ideal of justice alive, from their bailiff to their judge, from their prosecutor to their clerks, to all our judicial staff, to all our judicial members, to all our employees who have worked hard, to all our dedicated employees, I wish them all the best. The greatest guarantee of law, democratic order, security, rights and freedoms is that all of us will be protected and kept alive. The Constitution defines the division of forces as a business department, and in accordance with that understanding of cooperation, we have a duty and responsibility to ensure that our citizens reach the services of justice under better conditions, both as law and executive bodies, under better conditions. In 16 years, under the leadership of our President, we have taken important steps in judicial reform packages, in legal matters, healing and developmental steps. We all share the common goal of solving incompatibility, of course, with the work that we're going to do in the future, with the speed and the justice that we're going to do, and we've all come across this as a target. With the renewed legislation study, with infrastructure investments, with the structural and technological transformation of our institutions, with the increasing number of judicial members and staff, with a continuous education perspective, we are still going through a major transformation with the stronger courts' organization, insisting on a quality that we follow. Mr. President, we're not talking about justice, judicial authorities, courts, of course, an administrative agency, the administrative center of a ministry, city administrations, the organisation of the countryside in a hierarchical order. We, as part of the execution, are not judges, prosecutors, and the judges are not our officers. In terms of all the statements spoken here since this morning, we are not talking about savings, judges' changes in placement, appointments and other judicial activities, Turkey is a state of law, the legal system is a state within itself, and when there's a flaw in it and there's a flaw in it, we're not talking about a structure that was immediately removed from duty or instructed by a hierarchical structure, as examples have been seen in ancient times. Judiciary authorities do their duty independently and objectively, within the space drawn to them. It's up to us to develop institutional capacity, to be technological, open to new transformations, to prepare legislation... of course, the improvements of life and governance here are common to all of us, of course, and we'll all do that together. It's not just one person or a group, it's a common responsibility for all of us. Of course, when considering judicial and justice services in Turkey, it is more important to consider the very special experience that we have gone through, rather than the active performance. This experience taught the Turkish judiciary the value of independence and neutrality, the importance of commitment to law and conscience, the value of reason and judgment at a very high price. On July 15th, we all saw it very alive that those who devalued reason and substituted ideological dedication in place brought our country to the brink of disaster. After all, members of the Party, who receive instructions from their organization, whose destination is not law nor conscience, are ultimately paying the price for this betrayal in front of the law. The person who mediated the mechanism of justice has also done the worst harm to the judicial system, the hope of our nation's justice and trust in justice. Of course, after July 15th, Turkey, especially our judicial system, has launched a decisive struggle and cleansing process to get rid of this organised structure within the state. With all of the government's institutions and institutions, we are determined to complete this cleansing process successfully. On the 15th of July, those who betrayed us all that night in the Veteran Assembly, the Omar Halisdemirs, the martyrs of their heroic sons, answer before the great Turkish judiciary today. The cases of coupters who participated in the attempted treason on July 15th are on the path of final judgment. In 236 cases, the first-degree court has made its decisions, and in 53 cases, trials continue. We appreciate the efforts of our jurisprudence to find the truth, to achieve the right results, to separate the right from the wrong, to separate the guilty from the innocent. We have two red lines in this struggle. The first is that the struggle goes on without losing its purpose. Second, never, never compromise the truth, the law and justice. We can never tolerate the punishment of one criminal and the injustice of one innocent. The separation of age and drought is, of course, the basic duty of judgment. We also see that investigations and prosecutions continue to be sensitive, that unrelated names and social areas are not hurt during this process, that this struggle is indispensable to social legitimacy and success. We all know it's not easy to fight an atypical terrorist organization, ▪ Even the experience of the Purple Brain alone is a lesson in how to be careful. And it is the will of our judges, our government's determination, and the institutions of our entire state and its rulers that have uncovered this plot. The dissolution of this most complex network of betrayals that our history has ever seen will, of course, continue our support for the justice of criminals, and it will be decided by our judicial authorities, of course. Seven separate extradition requests have been issued for the head of the organisation, and each new information and document remains available to the United States. Those whose address is specific are requested from that country, and those whose address is unknown are again required by our judicial authorities to request a red bulletin. 96 members of the organization were brought to our country by deportation. Dear lawmakers, this treacherous organization, using the judiciary and law as a weapon, has, of course, done a great deal of damage to the judicial system and the functioning of the system in our country. Therefore, we all know that it is imperative that a reconstruction process be accompanied by the current struggle and decontamination process. The fight against ▪ is also a struggle for independence and respectability of the Turkish judiciary. In terms of trust in the judiciary in Turkey, the issue of polemics is essentially said that even the president of the high judiciary has landed at 20 to 30 per cent. Yes, these statements used in the 2016s are the result of a perception of how the government politicalizes the judiciary, making it ideological, turning it into its own organization's purpose. However, in the process of decontamination, important steps have been taken to resolve the lack of confidence in the judiciary with each passing day. Dear friends, let us not forget the practice of judgment in our country when we make cruel criticisms of the judiciary in this country. Those who were put to death by saying: "From one side to the left," and were executed by saying: "From one side to the chosen Prime Minister of this country," the will to bring you here to this country's beloved Menderes, wants you to be punished." We have all seen how the judiciary has become political. We've all seen the judgment that legitimizes the coup in this country. In February 28th trials in this country, we've all seen how the conservatives were wrongfully tried on February 28th, again by conspiracies, again by frauds, again by gathering some illegal evidence, and again by the hand of this trial, how certain people were taken into custody in the morning, at night, by producing evidence, and brought to trial. But I find it a very serious standard in this country to not criticize those who stood up in front of the coupgers in the February 28th briefing, who greeted the elected President of this country, who criticised the rise of the new candidate judge, the candidate of the prosecutor, who stood up in front of those coupgers that day, that the judges stood up and buttoned up in front of them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, judges never, ever, ever take orders from any institution, from anyone. I'm telling you where Turkey is coming from. In this country, yes, I have received judges, prosecutors. What was I supposed to do, take the Welfare Party, the National Movement Party?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0508par0404	You didn't put in an AKP attorney, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0507par0405	Those who did not speak to those ministers of justice that day, my brother, weren't the children of this country, the Prosperity Party, the children of this country, the members of the National Movement Party?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0508par0407	You didn't leave a lawyer in your agencies, you made them judges, prosecutors. You didn't leave a lawyer in the courthouse halls, they all became judges, prosecutors, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0509par0409	Haven't you made judgment into the palace's backyard?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0507par0410	When the son of this country went to law school in the National Movement Party, did he not finish in four years, and as the son of this country, the judge deserved to be a prosecutor, the Welfare Party deserved to be a prosecutor? Yeah, we've seen all this. And on that day...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0509par0411	Don't Republican People's Party deserve it?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0510par0412	Do only AKP people deserve it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0507par0413	Why do you bother here, I didn't give you a name? Where's the address going, guys? Why do you bother? I'm just saying in general.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0511par0414	And tell them of Ergenekon, Ergenekon.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0507par0415	No matter who does it, no matter what mentality you're in today, the son of this country, the Anatolian man, has the right to be a first-class citizen in any test, any kind of staffing, any first-class citizen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0512par0416	Who lifted the 70-point dam in the judge's office, the D.A.'s exam?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0507par0417	We've seen these. In this country, recently, when the decision is in its favor, there are judges, prosecutors from Namus, and when they don't come out, we can never agree to separate the judges from the Turkish judges by dividing them. There are 20,000 judges, prosecutors; 20,000 are the honorable son of the honorable Turkish judiciary; no one can say a word. 20,000 judges, of course, could have been wronged by the prosecutor, could have been incomplete, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0513par0418	How did the drug lord evacuate, Mr. Secretary? The state's sensitivities have been called "evacuation," so tell me, could the drug lord be released?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0514par0420	Relax, relax; don't get excited.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0515par0421	Congressmans, please let the Minister speak.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0513par0422	Is he on duty or not, Mr. Secretary? A member of the AK PARTY called the drug lord. Give me your answer.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0516par0423	Tell me about the daughter of the Chief Prosecutor, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0515par0424	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0517par0425	We need to...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0518par0426	How did the drug lord get out?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0519par0427	Listen!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0520par0428	Learn to listen.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0521par0429	Congressmans, please, let the Minister speak. Please, let's not interrupt by shouting at us.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0522par0430	Come on, Mr. Secretary, come in, how did the drug lord get released?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0523par0431	Listen! Why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0524par0432	Tell me about the priest, the priest!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0525par0433	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0526par0435	In this country, we grew up with the Istiklal Anthem in this country, with the persecution that was recited to our ears. Our faith...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0527par0437	How did we grow up, Mr. Secretary? How did we grow up?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0528par0438	That's how we grew up.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0529par0439	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0530par0440	Mr. President, why don't you step in and let them listen?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0529par0441	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0531par0443	You were afraid of our oath. You lifted it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0529par0444	Please let the Minister speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0446	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this country, east and west, all the sons of this country, no matter what mentality, no matter what belief, all 81 million are children of this country that are raised in the mind of justice. My daughter Fatima, if she is wrong, I will cut off her arm. We are a nation of believers who believe in faith.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0533par0448	He says he's growing up with the sound of meat. I didn't grow up with a prayer voice, don't I have a right?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0449	Nobody makes us do anything wrong on purpose. About the evacuations you mentioned... [[Noises]] Mr. Sezgin, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0534par0452	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0535par0453	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you do so, Mr. Secretary will not be able to answer your questions. Please, let's hear it calmly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0454	Mr. President, I'm running out of time.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0535par0455	I'll add it, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0457	The HSK has immediately launched an investigation into the issues you're talking about in this country -- those evacuations. Wherever he goes, we don't allow anyone to reduce his faith in justice, which he considers to be bread like 81 million, which is a saint like water. Wrong to the end...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0536par0458	What's the result?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0459	The inspection continues.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0536par0461	Mr. Secretary, what's the outcome? The result, the result...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0462	No matter who he goes to, no matter where he goes, H.S.K.'s doing an inspection. We'll follow it together, we'll share it with the public. My dear brothers and sisters, very valuable MPs, in this country...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0537par0465	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please let's not talk mutually, and let's not disrupt the General Assembly's order. Mr. Secretary is on the stand, making his statement, so let's hear it calmly. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0467	Arrest the traitors who bombed the Parliament on the night of July 15th of July from a trial that legitimized the coups in Turkey. You can't leave the Turkish judiciary, which says, "Armer Halisdemir has killed 251 of our citizens who have attacked the Republic's Chamber."
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0538par0469	You're quitting, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0539par0470	Mr. Secretary, you are the Minister of Justice, but there is no justice in your words.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0471	The Turkish judiciary, which has hailed the coup in the past, is now judging the coupgers.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0540par0472	You handed the verdict over to the court.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0473	Of course, if there are 20,000 people missing, making mistakes, the HSK is here, the Inspection Board is here. Maybe tens of judges a day, because the prosecutor's export came for approval -- and politically speaking, the relevant agencies decide -- I never know those apartments, the judges that you're talking about, because the Committee elected by the House, the elected President, the agency, will save its own. But the system works, so of course we'll all work together to not let anything go wrong here. My dear friends, there's a Turkish judiciary here today that is fighting terror, terror, PKK, and DEAŞ. If there is a mistake, the prosecutor will go to court, if there is something wrong with him; if there is wrong with the court, it will improve in the court; if there is wrong with it, it will improve in the Supreme Court; if there is, the Constitutional Court will go to the ECHM, if there is one, and all these systems were made in Turkey's legal system.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0541par0475	But you don't know the ECHR. You don't know the latest ECHR.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0542par0476	You don't accept the ECHM, Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0477	But if you're going to make the trial, do you want to lift up the courts, judge the newspapers, judge the media, judge the law, judge the administration? In Turkey, the judiciary is independent, and the judiciary is doing so within its own system. Of course, there may be mistakes where human beings are, and there are wrong, incomplete decisions that we're not pleased with, but the legal system itself will fix that. My dear friends, my dear lawmakers, we are very concerned about the Judicial Reform Strategy Document, which we continue to prepare for. If this reform is to be implemented for 81 million, we say the view of 81 million should reflect the view of both the east and the west and the south, and we say it should reflect the view of each section, and it is determined as a reassuring justice system.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0543par0479	Oh, my God! The reform again...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0480	While the Justice Department budget is being discussed here, I've tried not to interfere in any way, and I offer this matter to your appreciation, but in short, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to present your proposals for this reform. With the largest turnout, we're trying to build this document, and we're particularly focused on law training because we've done our courts in Turkey, we've increased our quantity, we've increased our staff numbers, but now we're talking about quality...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0544par0482	You've done more prisons than courts, tell me about prisons.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0483	We're doing our work on grown-up, qualified lawmen. We know what's missing. What we've come to the point of understanding is that people who have graduated from the faculty before entering the law profession, the judge's office, the prosecution's attorney's office, the notary profession, are subject to a vocational exam, an exam, a central exam. So we think the quality will be increased. We've brought up the deputy judge/public prosecutor's office again, and we're discussing it. So, the judge/lawyer assistants will see the whole application, and then, after that, they'll take the stand after the experience. So he'll be able to empathize, get to know the psychology of the parties, justice, criminal justice, and then take the stand. We plan to continue by improving the practice of the Academy of Justice. We're thinking of improving his internship, increasing his theory and practice. I'm passing through here in general because I'm running out of time on our agenda to strengthen the practice of law enforcement. Of course, we care deeply about the compromise and mediation system to eliminate the excess of workloads. As you know, by the will of the Supreme Assembly, the mediation of trade cases will also begin as of 1 January, and in 2017, there were 231,080 lawsuits in the main trade courts, highly valued MPs. 231,080 cases will go to the negotiator first, then come to court. So we believe we're going to make a more qualified trial, and we think it's going to be an important development. Mr. President, we've enforced the right to remain unstained as an important step. However, we've also seen some very important stories about abstract, baseless reports, complaints, and their trial being diluted. I personally think that everyone has an argument that they use when they're not. So let me complain about my relationship with my mother-in-law. I have an open relationship with him, and I'll complain about it. Therefore, the anonymous, abstract allegations about the obvious issues -- the right to avoid corruption -- are not subject to the investigation when the prosecutor puts them in front of the prosecutor. I think it's a very important development in this regard, and I think it's an important development in terms of the fight. But of course, this is not limited to this issue, but the security function of this country must apply to everyone involved in the investigation process. The secrecy of the investigation, the fact that the transfers to the courthouse can't be translated into a march like they're going to a podium under exploding flashes, not being turned into a show, not preventing assassinations of reputations, it's never acceptable to have them published in the papers before the trials have come out. These are the issues that must be considered under the right to abide by the rules of procedure again and not be tainted. With the precision of the requirements of a fair trial and the right, proper, and moderate execution of judgment measures, it is only successful. In order to remove the word from our vocabulary, we feel it is necessary to weigh and hold the scales of justice in the measures that limit fundamental rights and freedoms, such as detention and arrest. In these 16 years we've left behind, there have been very important reforms. It was our government that put the arrest on pretty tight terms as a precaution. We're the ones who made forensic control an alternative to a real arrest. However, its implementation is as important as its implementation. Any shortcomings, app errors? Yes, I do. That's what we want the year 2019 to be. That's how we care about judicial reform. That's why we'd like to discuss our issues more jointly. That's why we care about a central exam in practice, so let's keep the internship broader. It's not really our judges or our prosecutors' fault in that sense. There was a process of recovery, construction, and now we're trying to do so. If there really are those whose hearts are burning about it, we say we're open to all these suggestions because justice is all of us. We're here today, there's others tomorrow, but as long as there's justice in the sky above us, it'll be for everyone. And to protect this together, no political party, no engagement, no ideological bond, no ethnicity, no region, no age distinction, and of course, we all share the common duty of... You've been in power for 16 years. We've done so much important work. That's why there are choices. We asked for a vote to do more. Our nation trusted and gave. Now we say the process of building. We're aware of what we're missing, 2019 miles, and I'll finish what we're missing. A saint as much as bread, a saint as water, even if there's justice, you'll find bread, you'll find water. We want to build it together. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] A lengthy investigation, lengthy imprisonment, endless trial, of course, is not acceptable. As judges, prosecutors, lawyers, citizens, none of us want that. We want the judicial system to solve these problems, so let's see if we can get target time to...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0545par0495	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0496	When both the criminal and legal investigation and trial are launched, the court will begin to process the hourglass of justice, where there is delay in the system, where there is a blockage, where it will take sides to end an investigation by now; if there is a delay, of course not to participate in judicial activity, but where are there obstructions, in the legislation, in the practice, in that court, or the staff, or the lack of perspective, or the lack of education; we will see them together, friends. So, in this regard, really, we'll be implementing this app with the best hope that we'll be able to start from January 1st.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0546par0497	The concrete case, Osman Kavala, Mr. Secretary, is a concrete case. Osman Kavala is a solid case.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0498	Coroner's chambers, again, were, of course, a very important development of the victims, and we're going to improve that. Again, the number of indictments related to the number of judges and indictments... we have 11 indictments. Again, in the coming period, we aim to accelerate the trials by opening up four more sites. Again, in the coming period, the European Convention on Human Rights has also launched the process of updating and renovating the Action Plan Against Avoiding Violations. The increase in prisons has also been expressed here by our valued lawmakers. We don't brag about opening prisons, no government boasts about opening them.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0547par0502	You have a congressman who's been texting you with good news.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0503	Prisons were 524 in 2002, while the number of prisons in 2018 was 389; 166 new prisons were built; 301 prisons were closed. I'm going to sum up the reasons for the number increases in prisons because my time is short. Dear friends, a seven-year sentence for sexual assault has been reduced to twelve years. Four years for drugs, ten years for drug use. Look, as far as the number of people in execution agencies, a person before drugs, 2005, a criminal, was in prison for two years, now serving seven and a half years, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0547par0505	Can you tell me who's guilty of what crime?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0506	He was serving three years before the sexual assault, now serving nine years; our government increased it by the will of our Parliament. I mean, by the way, why are the prisons crowded when they're gonna come four or five times? 57,674 of the drugs are in prison. So if we're saying we shouldn't take these... the courts are bringing them in, the capacity for that is being increased, it's being done. 19,066 people of sex crimes, 44,690 people of terrorism... who had previously committed these crimes, killing, dear friends, killing, were serving nine years before 2005, today serving twenty-four years. He's been in and out for nine years, so if you want him to go nine years, we'll clear out the prisons. It's in the hands of the House, give it to us today, our friends who criticize it, these numbers go right out of prison. So I'm saying a reality here. Nine years for manslaughter, now twenty-four. These are all the times we set together. There have been exceptions, there have been a hundred and ten days in the indictments, and the average time is finalized before going to the Supreme Court by 70 per cent.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0548par0509	Here, complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0549par0510	Count the others, Mr. Secretary. Count the others.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0511	Our lawmakers can go to prisons without permission, so they don't have to ask permission. If he's a member of a terrorist organization, the Ministry has permission to do so.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0550par0512	What do you mean, no? We ask six times, Mr. Secretary, six times, seven times.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0513	Don't shout, I'll tell you, Mr. Ozkan, it's okay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0551par0514	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0532par0515	Our friend who asks the question doesn't listen. Our Deputy Minister is here. All demands are being met, the conditions of the prison, the situation of our staff, the capacity of the institution concerned, and there is great effort. The shortcomings have been expressed today, and so has our Deputy Minister, but when I've been contacted by our group's vice presidents at any moment, of course, it's the most natural right of our MPs, and we'll give our support as much as we can, so why don't we give our MPs that opportunity? There's nothing wrong with the prisons -- where there's a human being -- we can't say that. We're working with people who made mistakes, but today, they just called it a prison, a police station. And according to my information about the police station, they were given caps in terms of their safety. I've been informed by the Home Office that there is no such thing against their beliefs. Of course he'll be briefed on that, but whatever violations there are in prison in that sense...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0552par0519	Tripoli Prison, Tripoli Cradle.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0553par0520	Complete it, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0554par0522	Tell me today, wherever there's a breach, I'll press charges in the first place.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0555par0523	What do you do? What does the government do?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0554par0524	See, that's what they're always saying here, but when I meet them, our warden-General, our Deputy Secretary-General, when he meets with our warden-General, all of our deputies say thank you and leave if there's 10 problems, but here comes something different.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0556par0525	We have a report from the Van Bar, Tripoli Cradle, waiting for an answer.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0554par0526	Of course, we can listen again. The Human Rights Commission, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, can oversee all prisons at any moment, all parties, MPs. All institutions from Europe are overseeing, and if there is a deficit, we will not allow it in the first place, we will conduct our necessary inspection. Wherever it is, it's expressed, of course.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0556par0527	Make a statement about the Trebzon Cradle. Van Bar's done an inspection, make a statement.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0554par0528	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0557par0529	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0556par0530	Make a statement about Tripoli, Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0554par0531	Dear friends, the final issue of the trial of lawmakers is that the judiciary looks at lawmakers ideologically and judges them.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0556par0532	Of course you're silent about things you can't answer!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0558par0533	Will you listen to me? Wait a minute! Wait a minute, listen!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0556par0534	We asked a question, we're waiting for an answer. He was responding to everything.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0558par0535	Listen and find out what he says!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0556par0536	You're not gonna teach me, so watch where you're going! We're not asking you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0559par0537	Dear friends, Ayşe Hanım from HDP has spoken to our Deputy Minister when she came to talk about the violations from HDP MPs, and the relevant MP has thanked us, and said, "They have misled us." She said, "Don't make us talk here. At one to one, you thank me, and when you get here, you're a hawk!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0560par0540	Let's complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0559par0541	Whoever is in prison is entrusted to the state; no violations of rights, no human rights violations. That's how the ECHR accepts it, and if you don't accept it, it's your own problem. The issue of the trial of the MPs is that the Turkish judiciary is not in such a state, but should the immunity of its MPs be lifted today in the Supreme Parliament? We said, "Yes, rise." We said, "Yes, rise." He said, "The vote was not enough, since the HDP opposed us, so it was 367 with the votes of the CHP and came before the Turkish judiciary. Why are we blaming the Turkish judiciary? The Turkish judiciary has made a decision on what comes next.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0561par0543	Mr. Secretary... Mr. Secretary, look...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0559par0544	The Turkish judiciary is independent, so don't expect us to interfere with the Turkish judiciary, we won't. We're not judges, we're not prosecutors; judge, leave the prosecutors alone.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0561par0546	Mr. Secretary, look at the committees that have changed in the Eren Erdem case.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0562par0547	There's no decision for that, there's no decision for that.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0559par0548	While I'm packing up my words...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0561par0549	Look at the committees that have changed in the Eren Erdem case, just look at this, Mr. Secretary, look at the changing delegations.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0559par0550	Mr. Sezgin, let's have a cup of tea, and we'll talk about it all together without yelling.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0563par0551	Layla, there is no decision made for Trust.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0561par0552	Look, look at the changing committees, Mr. Secretary. Why are the committees changing?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0559par0553	We'll all talk together -- you've been president -- we'll all do it together. But as a lawyer...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0561par0554	Why are the committees changing?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0564par0555	Dear Godkulu, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0559par0556	A Minister of Justice doesn't make those decisions. We're part of the administration, and the judiciary makes its decisions independently. It's our duty, together, to clear up the loose ends of these issues. And in the coming period, we're going to do this judicial reform.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0564par0558	Yes, I'll turn on the microphone one last time, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0559par0560	With these feelings, I'm already getting all these valuable ideas for all their opinions and suggestions, and we're getting the criticism to make it even more accurate, of course. And I hope to do better with the support of all of you. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0564par0563	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0565par0564	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0564par0565	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0565par0566	Sir, during his speech, Mr. Secretary has accused the CHP of unfairly hiring staff by repeating it once or twice. I want to talk to you about teasing me about this.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0564par0567	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0565par0572	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, one of the things I'm most sorry about is that when we're all sitting here in the Republic of Turkey, there's an abolition of God to everyone with faith in our hearts. Among so many people and so many Muslims, the minister says: "We have grown up to be recited in our ears. " Ours too was recited, and our foreheads were prostrating. Who the hell are you? Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0566par0574	Why are you asking the minister, ask your father.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0565par0575	My father is a man who has fought his honor and passed away, but ask both your parents about yourself. Son of a bitch!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0567par0577	You're being rude.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0568par0578	That's an ugly way to say it. Mr. President, this is outrageous.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0569par0580	That's no way to go about it!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0570par0581	Please, no teasing, no reciprocity. You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0571par0583	Dear friends, fair orphan Fetullah is the number one defendant of the laughing congregation. Where is the righteous orphan, who has kidnapped the righteous orphan? What government is the government that kidnapped the righteous Orphan? It's the Justice and Development Party. Who kidnapped Zechariah Oz, who said, "This is my prosecutor." Who kidnapped him from Turkey? President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0572par0585	Oh, man!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0573par0586	Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0571par0587	They tell me: "Can't you throw out the honorable sons of the MPP (MHP) as judges and prosecutors?) You can also make the honorable sons of the UMP to the Republic of Turkey and the President, but the mentality that put Engin Alan Pasha in prison cannot say that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You will take the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Turkey, you will put him in prison, you will bring the generals who have struck the Republic of Turkey, you will be the great power of the great Turkey. You are the shameful power of the great Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0574par0592	You'll go from the heart, from the heart.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0575par0593	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0576par0594	Don't shout... watch your heart.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0574par0595	You're going through the heart.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0577par0596	Complete it, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0578par0597	Thank you, thank you. We have not removed immunity to arrest lawmakers, journalists, innocents, victims. We said, "Put your ministers in prison, the politicians who steal, the shameless, the dishonest." (Cheers and applause) When judging innocent people and lawmakers over and over again, this must be acquitted. The judge, who said, "This must be acquitted." He has executed the law in the Republic of Turkey, who will remove the prosecutor from office that night and then punish the prosecutor. He's not the prosecutor and judge of Turkey, he's the terrorist organization, and you own him.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0579par0601	Get over there. You're the terrorist organization, you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0578par0602	I'm picking it up. In cases such as the sledgehammer and Ergenekon, you set up a similar court of Hitler in Silivri.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0579par0604	Learn to talk first.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0578par0605	The ones you tried and put in prison, the ones who committed suicide, the ones who died, the honor, this flag, and Turkey, but the ones you fed, the terrorist organization, killed 250 people. The more terrorists they are, the more terrorists you are.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0580par0607	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0581par0608	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0580par0609	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0582par0610	You're the terrorist!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0580par0611	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Ozkoch, please take your seat.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0583par0613	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0580par0614	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0584par0615	Watch your fucking foot! Shame on you! Watch your tongue, damn it! Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0585par0616	You'll learn to speak properly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0586par0617	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0587par0618	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0585par0619	It's a shame!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0588par0620	Woe to you! Keep your hands and feet. Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0587par0622	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please remain calm, please take our seats.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0588par0623	Shame on you! And you're a band vice president! Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0589par0624	You don't know how to talk like a group vice president.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0587par0625	Mr. Group Vice President has asked for a word. Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0589par0627	It's a shame.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0590par0628	Shame on you. You're being rude! He's being rude, what's with the hand-and-foot movement? Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0591par0630	Dear lawmakers, the group's deputy president is on the stand and will make his speech. Please be quiet.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0592par0631	Are you going to do that?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit06spe0591par0633	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0591par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 31st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Commission? He's in position. Dear lawmakers, before taking a break from the merger, Deputy President of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Özlem Rich, asked for a word, and I promised him. Now I'd like to invite him back to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Rich. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0593par0058	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I think the reason I'm on the stand is because of all the information you're prepared for. I'm terribly sorry, I think our group is upset, and the speakers are upset, but I would like to speak calmly and calmly. Yelling is of no use to anyone, to any of us. And it's no use to accuse each other of being in the middle of something. The issue here is to punish whoever really is. When it's looked at from here...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0594par0061	You say that every day.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0595par0063	Disrespectful human being!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0596par0064	Dear friends, please... please... Dear MPs, please, let's hear it quietly. Here you go, Mr. Rich. Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0597par0067	When it's looked from here, I'd like to say this one time before my friend, who came to the bench, is having a very interesting conversation. Go, look at the past of your parents! There's a lot of heavy language. I don't think we, any of us, have the right to say these things about each other. I listened to the Minister's speech. Mr. Secretary stated that in the past, there have been great injustices when judicial members have been determined in this country. There's no need to go far, I bear witness with my life. When I was a college student, I applied for a judge's exam, a judge's exam. I was an outstanding student who graduated from college with excellent grades. I didn't get the test. I didn't even have the right to take the exam, my papers were returned. Why? Just the photo I gave you. What the Minister is saying is that if anyone in this country believes that they were born a Muslim, if their family believes that they were born a Muslim -- even his family, he doesn't have his consent -- read it in his ear. What the Minister meant was read to us, not that it wasn't read to you. We're the people who define ourselves by this. You guys may be describing it, but just because we're saying our own definition doesn't mean we're leaving you out of it. But our life is, unfortunately, just...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0598par0072	Let's complete it, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0597par0073	Our lives have been spent getting beaten up just because we're trying to be who we are. Why can't I take the judge's exam when I'm a young person, just because I'm a headscarf? I don't even have the right to be tested. Aren't we going to say that around here today? Mr. Minister says: "No matter what your religion, whatever your faith, you can take this test. You can't take this test because there's no Kurdish for anyone in Turkey, because there's no Alevi. (There's..... from the HDP rows.) I'm talking about the exam, the exam, the exam.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0599par0074	Where are the Kurds?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0598par0075	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0600par0076	Deputy, I'm one of those who grows up with the voice of persecution.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0601par0077	So when we talk on these platforms, we need to save some words, and no one has the right to call each other terrorists.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0602par0078	But you say it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0600par0079	What do you say every day? You say that every day.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0603par0080	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0604par0081	No one who talks here can say, or say, "terrorist" to the AK PARTY, and we expect an apology for that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's move on, let's move on. Now, sir, you say: "We are far away from them." And who were these clappers in front of the Zaman newspaper? Who were the people who protected people in the time paper, who were the people who looked out for them?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0605par0085	You're the ones who handed out the time paper.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0606par0087	Mr. Rich, finish up. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0607par0089	I want one last word. Just yesterday, your president went to Germany, where he was at the meeting of Ercan Karakoyun, Germany's most important spokesman.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0608par0091	Oh, for God's sake! Don't! We'll come and talk. It's an oxymoron with what you just talked about, but this is all of it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0607par0092	Yes, I will. Wherever you go, contact the GERPs, meet with their outside ends, and when you come in, we have no contact. Yesterday, his advisor, his professor, was convicted of this. When you look like that, please, don't go into innocence. Here's what we're doing. [[Noises from CHP rows]] We're doing this: we know that once I've expressed in my speech today, he's targeted all political parties, he's targeted all political parties, he's targeted all of them, he's targeted them all, we need to see this. Instead of blaming each other, let's go after the real people. And we expect an apology from this bench to the AK PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Plus, I'm going to say one last thing, especially to my boyfriends, I'm asking you to come out with a tremendous dominant male tongue. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Where? What if he's out there?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0609par0101	Thank you, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0607par0102	I'll say one more sentence: it's about making a fight on the table, doing it on the council, doing it on the stand. What are you doing out here? Come and fight here.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0609par0104	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0610par0105	What's the matter? Why is he promising?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0609par0106	Let us decide that, dear MPs. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0610par0108	Why don't he explain?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0109	The president gives the word...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0609par0110	Mr. Ozkoch, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0111	I'm gonna ask you and leave?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0612par0112	Yeah, what are you talking about there, go talk to him!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0609par0113	Mr. Ozkoch, you take the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0114	Friend, the Speaker promises, I'll ask you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0613par0115	Okay. Come in, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0609par0116	Mr. Ozkoch, you take the stand, please.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0118	Mr. President, my dear friends, look who's picking on us. I'm the one who's done everything in my work at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- your group knows it very well -- I'm the one who's done everything in my power to make sure that this Assembly can walk through a truly appropriate diplomacy. If you say that now, I'll have to tell you what you are.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0614par0120	It's still going on, look in the mirror!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0121	Not if you come at me like this.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0615par0122	Mr. Ozkoch... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0124	We're in the back talking to your group of vice presidents, so that we don't really say things that make the House nervous when we get up there. Now, didn't your group vice president just say something that would make us nervous until our president? Are we going to answer them or not?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0616par0126	Come on, you're saying terrorist.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0617par0127	You're calling us terrorists! You're the terrorists!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0128	Friends, the Republican People's Party has two red dots: one religion, the other terror. If you say anything about it, you'll get what you say, whatever you say.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0618par0131	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch. Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0132	Mr. President, I'd like to say something to another person -- because I love you so much -- that I love you very much, and that I'm a Besiktasian.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0619par0133	I'm from the Turkish national team.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0134	Wait a minute... Now, look, we have friends here from football, we see you as everyone's sweetheart in our dreams, people we all love.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0620par0136	It still is!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0137	We don't see you as partying in our heads, in our minds, whatever row you're sitting in, but in this struggle, it hurts all of us to have you in the way that we don't fit in. So, I'm asking you specifically, and I'm asking you specifically, the last time we had a president, you had the same attitude, and now you're doing the same thing.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0621par0140	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0141	So I'm asking you, as a brother, to stay here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as everyone's lover.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0622par0142	You apologize!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0623par0143	Apologize! Apologize!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0144	Guys, I don't think any congressman under this roof is involved with a terrorist organization. [[Why did you say the AK PARTY?]] Well, friend...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0624par0147	Mr. Ozkoc, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0148	I don't think he's connected to a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0624par0149	Hold on a minute, Mr. Ozkoch. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0611par0150	Here he is a member of this terrorist organization, where he judges the law and says no one is a member of the terrorist organization; everyone is a member of parliament and everyone is here in a respectable manner. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0624par0153	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0625par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0624par0156	I promise, Mr. Özalan, in a moment.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0625par0157	Sir, I want word on 69.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0624par0159	I can't hear you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0625par0160	My name came up, there was teasing...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0624par0161	Mr. Özalan, I didn't hear what you said.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0625par0162	Sir, my name is mentioned, my name is mentioned, he's taunted, I want to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0624par0163	I promise you, according to 60, speak from your place. [[Noises]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0626par0166	Mr. President, we'd be honored to hear him speak from the stand because he really is someone Turkey loves.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0624par0167	Yes, Mr. Özalan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0627par0170	Now, of course, my speech was tomorrow, and I was preparing myself for it, but today's the day. Now, let me tell you, Mr. Vice President, I wasn't in a fight, I was on the separate side, you misunderstood, you saw wrong. That's one. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Second, I am the only athlete in Turkey with the International Olympic Committee's fair play award.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0628par0175	Bravo! Take it from here and here.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0627par0176	Like great works, great thoughts don't need loud talk, sir. So, my advice to you is that in cooperation here, to move our country forward, to become a greater country, together, to be in the force is my greatest goal. And I'm proud of that, sir, as a guardian of the AK PARTY government and the AK PARTY. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0629par0179	Thank you, Mr. Özalan. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0630par0181	Albay, why didn't you pick on me? I should have talked to him.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0631par0182	No, he didn't.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0632par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0633par0184	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0632par0187	Mr. President, thank you. We thank Mr. Engin Ozkovic, our MP, Alpay Bey, for the praise of his words in both criticism and praise. We're all in love with you. I'd like to say for all of our representatives here in Parliament that we don't expect any of our deputies to be in the way of this Parliament, no doubt. It's not just an attitude that's expected of Alpay, it's expected of everyone, and people here can argue, debate, argue about words, but as a result, it's not appropriate for any of us to do the kind of behavior that we don't accept, which is expected of Albany. I believe Mr. Engin will agree. Second, there are tensions here from time to time. In those tensions, perhaps speakers can use words that they themselves would not, would not or would not accept, but virtue and wisdom are...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0634par0191	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0632par0192	...who is not worthy of him and who is certainly not in the House's negotiating language, let him come and make a statement against such statements. I also see Mr. Ozkoc's speech in this context. It's not just the words he's expressed here, but when I look at the report, there's a phrase here that I think is being told about in the chaos, chaos, and debate, and there's a pattern that we've seen here from time to time, and I'm not going to repeat it. For him, I'll also take his words, certainly as that gentleman, and as a result of that expression that doesn't suit the constructive style of Mr. Engin Ozkoc. I think it would be helpful for all of us to contribute to the negotiating climate in the House. Because it's a place where the issues of the country...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0634par0193	Complete it, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0632par0194	...not on the ground of discussion and fighting, but on the ground of reason, where useful ideas will emerge for this country. We'll all certainly contribute to that. We will do so, not with words of anger, but with words of wisdom and wisdom. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0634par0196	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0635par0199	Mr. President, I don't want to go any further at this time of night, but I think we've all felt once again that we all need to be careful and careful not to use one word, one definition for another, which we don't want to hear about ourselves. It's a famous example, you know, that we all have a responsibility, a responsibility, for this country being like this, so that the first stone that doesn't commit this sin can be thrown away. Therefore, I think we all need to speak with care when we speak. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0634par0201	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Mr. Ozkoch, do you have a request? Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0636par0205	I'm telling you about what Mr. AK PARTY Group President said last time. Indeed, when there are discussions about the speaker on the stand, sometimes people are able to blurt out certain words that they shouldn't say. It would be sad and sad for me. His word is true, and he is correct in it. I don't take any of my friends for an account of the promise I made. Every friend of ours is valuable here, and he is our friends, who, for us, will decide the fate of the Republic of Turkey here. So, we'll work together in unity and unity, with respect to our own feelings, and we'll work together here to resolve the issues of our country from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0634par0207	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0637par0208	Mr. President, I've asked for 60, but if it's possible...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0634par0209	Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0637par0211	Mr. President, thank you. Guys, we've been getting tired here for days. At this hour of the night, even in this tension, when it came to my brother, how much sports is a uniter, how much it's in the rules of fair play, it brought us all together at once. So, I guess you're gonna have to get me and Albany to talk a little bit more when there's tension.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0634par0214	You need to take your word for it, Mr. Sandzak, we'll give it to you if you want.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0637par0215	Now, of course, there's something wrong with Albany and me. We played football, Mr. President. A football is close to a pound. We've been head-butting for 20 years on a one-pound object that's going 70 to 80 kilometers. Please excuse us for our little mistakes. [[Laughter and applause]] And thank you for your promise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0634par0218	You're welcome. Thank you, Mr. Sandzak. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I have much to say about these conversations, but I think there's only one point that everyone has noticed here -- and I'm just going to say, just to underline it, to make sure that these tensions are taken into consideration again: yes, these kinds of tensions are normal in parliamentary environments, in parliaments. The important thing is that it doesn't turn into a mutual assault, one. Second of all, it's that our anger gets ahead of everything and doesn't turn the weight of our words into sharpness, it's not hurtful. Maybe these conversations were a way for everyone to face each other, a way for them to face themselves. Well, if that's the case, I'd consider today's tension a huge profit. Now, we'll resume the negotiations where we left off. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 The second word for executive is Minister of Environment and Urbanism Murat Kurum. Here you go, Mr. Corporation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0638par0276	Mr. President, I'd like to inform you about the work and goals of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the train accident today in Ankara, and to our wounded citizens with urgent healings. Mr. President, our ministry of environmental protection, construction, urban transformation, treasure transfers, with the new government system, which was established in 2011 as the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and with the re-establishment of the TOKI, the Presidential Bank, the National Real Estates and Local Governments, has taken responsibility and responsibility in areas related to local administrations. With technological innovations growing today, urbanisation and urbanization have led to more waste by diversifying living standards and consumption habits. Our ministry spends a lot of time building an efficient waste management, an efficient, integrated waste system, and a national environmental sector. In this context, we are trying to address the environmental problems of waste, while in our work, we are trying to fund our economy from waste to waste. We took an important step into the waste management administration and the Action Plan, which we prepared for 2016-2023. Thus, our country has had the opportunity to plan and implement waste management in every detail according to waste species. The plan, including capacity, location and time information for the needed facility investments, will also be a guide to overall investment and operating costs. By our ministry, a clean and developed country was launched in 2017 to leave a habitable world for future generations, the Zero Waste Project. With the Zero Waste Project, the Zero Waste Project, which was first implemented in our Ministry, in our Ministry, today in 10,000 state-owned institutions and institutions, which are targeted for separate collections and recovery of waste in the source of waste if the causes of waste are more efficient, reviewing or minimizing the causes of waste formation, if the waste occurs. The installation of the zero waste system will be completed throughout the country by 2023. While this practice is fully operational in 2023, we aim to save $20 billion a year and provide direct employment for 100,000 people. Due to the high cost of waste collection and the lack of budgetary share of local governments' waste management, the lack of separate collection systems from active resources has negative impact on the process of reintegrating recyclable waste into the economy. For this purpose, our law proposal, which includes the creation of an effective waste collection system and the production of economic tools to provide the necessary infrastructure under the Zero Waste Project, was adopted by the General Assembly on 29 November 2018, and was published in the Official Gazette, dated 10 December 2018. Along with this law, it has been arranged for them to be subject to mandatory deposits so that packaging wastes can be collected effectively, especially in the packing of beverages. In institutions entering zero waste implementation, there is also an incentive for effective implementation of the zero waste management system. To reduce the use of plastic bags causing low recovery and environmental pollution, plastic shopping bags have been arranged to be paid to consumers. With the cost of plastic bags, resources are intended to be efficient and to benefit the economy. Our goal in 2023 is to increase the rate of household recycling to at least 35 percent. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we continue our work in our country by increasing every day on solid waste management, storage facilities. The process, which we started with a regular storage slogan from the exploding garbage fields, developed rapidly. We support local governments technically and financially for the establishment of modern waste facilities. In 2002, the number of solid waste regulatory plants reached 88, as of November 2018, when it was only 15 years old. With these facilities, 1,142 municipalities are served by 55 million people, 75 per cent of the population. Instead of just collecting waste in these areas, we're also implementing preprocessing facilities that prioritize my recovery. At the same time, electric energy is produced at 58 storage sites with a capacity of 194 megawatts. In 2023, we aim to turn all our citizens into solid waste management services. It is vital that the wastewaters are purified and given to the buyers, to prevent pollution, and to protect our limited water sources. As a result of efforts to protect the environment in our country and financial and technical support given by our Ministry, there have been significant increases in the number of municipalities that have been served in recent years by the sewer network and the wastewater treatment plant and the population of this service. In 2002, 35 per cent of the municipality's population received a wastewater treatment service, while in 2018 it reached 85.5 per cent. Hopefully, in 2023, the wastewaters are completely refined and are targeted for natural discharge. Our blue flag beach number was 151 in 2002, with 459 in 2018 as a sign of our clean seas. Our goal in this area is the world's 1st place. In 2002, no ports provide waste-taking services from ships, while 296 coastal facilities are now provided with waste-taking services from ships. Environmental impact assessment is an important process for measuring the environmental impacts of investments and taking necessary measures. The CED regulations have been fully adapted to the European Union's integration work and to the needs of our country, except for the issues that exceed the borders. The Air Quality Watch Network, which began with 36 stations in 2005, was expanded to 339 stations in the 81 district centre. We've been monitoring wastewater treatment facilities 24/7 with capacity above 10,000 cubic metres. As of today, the number of facilities that have been integrated in continuous wastewater monitoring, which began with 30 facilities in 2012, reached 256. The seasonal monitoring of water quality in the basin is performed at 111 locations in 6 basins, including Ergene, Little Menderes, Gediz, North Aegean, Sakarya and Susurlik basins. 353 points are observed in our seas under our national legislation and international contracts. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, all planning and implementation of natural sites and private environmental protection zones, the detection of protected areas, registration, protection, and development are run by our Ministry. Ecological-based scientific research has been completed and reports have been prepared, covering four seasons in all natural sites and potential new areas for the identification and protection of our country's natural values. According to the reports prepared, natural status areas are being determined according to the new protection categories and continue to work. The study of the Mogan Lake Dip Mud Cleaning Project was launched under protocol signed by the Transport and Infrastructure Ministry in 2016. The project has been meticulously designed to ensure that the natural balance remains intact in the process of cleaning the bottom mud, the protection of the environment and public health, and visual pollution does not occur. At the base of Lake Mogan, 2,700,000 cubic metres of bottom mud has been completed and the project continues. Climate change is one of the most important problems facing humanity on the international agenda. As Turkey, we do our responsibilities to be part of the solution on a global scale. As a matter of fact, on April 21, 2016, we signed the Paris Agreement. In 2030, we reported to the United Nations Climate Change Secretaria that we could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 21 percent. As the ministry, both our international responsibilities are being met and our country's technical and administrative capacity for fighting climate change is expanded as part of efforts to combat climate change and protect the ozone layer. Finally, we were able to participate in the United Nations Conference on Climate Change Participants, which was held in Katowice, Poland, where representatives of the 195 countries began on 3 December. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the destruction of our country's earthquakes, the stockpile of unsanitary structures has caused great loss of lives and goods. This demonstrates with full clarity the damage caused by unsupervised settlement and construction, and shows how important building control is. Under the amendment, a structure control system has been created that will perform the audit duties of institutions free of any pressure or abuse, as the building control agencies assigned to control the structures as of January 1, 2019. Again, pilot studies have been launched to track samples from concrete productions of concrete to follow our concrete quality and to track concrete test results through the chip system, and to instantly remove them from the lab environment. According to our ministry, the housing of families whose seats have been nationalized due to different projects under the 555-43 housing Act. The housing demands for the rightful owners are met by consideration of the local property. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our ministry is working for cities that are well-identified, healthy and environmentally friendly with its structure, which guides local governments, which guides planning. We move our city culture from our apocalypse to the future, protecting its unique artifacts and riches. In this sense, one of the best examples of our effort is our City Project. We build national gardens to transform our cities into greener and fresher habitats, to improve the quality of our cities' lives and environments, and to create identified cities. People are the big green areas that meet the gardens, the people, and the needs for recreation, rest, and socialization. In our first 100 - day Action Plan, we began working in the 33 - nation garden. In November, our five national gardens -- Istanbul Kayaşehir, Başakşehir, Baruthane, Whipster and Hoşdere -- were inaugurated by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We continue to work for the spread of the nation's gardens in 81 provinces. Hopefully, we want to build at least one nation garden in each of our provinces. With the completion of the planned nation's gardens in Istanbul and Ankara, the amount of green per capita will be increased by 10 per cent in Istanbul and 6 per cent in Ankara. The local plan is a plan that is designed across the country and in areas where it is needed, by linking its strategies with the location with social, economic and environmental policies. It has been approved across the country to ensure the spatial organisation of socioeconomic policies and to harmonise investments one-on-one on the country scale. The ground strategy plan to direct existing spatial plans, including the 5,000-scale environmental layout, must be prepared with a new approach. In this framework, studies on Turkey's Placement Strategy Plan, which would pave the way for the need for land and foreign investments, one of our ministry's goals. Mr. President, valued MPs, 71 per cent of our country's population, 66 per cent of our land are in the first and second-degree earthquake zones. There have been 56 earthquakes in our country over the last hundred years, and it has cost the lives and property of 80,000 of our citizens. We have left behind six years of implementation under the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster No. 6306 to create health and safety environments. We are renovating 522,000 homes and businesses across the country to risky construction status. The destruction of 444,000 independent divisions has been carried out, and construction is under way. With all these urban transformations, it was originally intended that our cities would be resistant to disaster risk, but it was intended to create projects that would focus on the social structure of our cities, on the culture of our cities, on horizontal architecture, on planning and design-oriented, to add value to the city. Under Law 6306 across the country, 8 billion dollars were used for $734 million. It was also published in the Official Gazette, December 10, 2018, with a proposal to resolve and accelerate the problems of Law Act 6306. The regulation provides new applications to open and speed up the transformation, especially with building completion insurance. I'd also like to mention the work our government and our Ministry have done in our areas affected by terrorism. In the southeastern Anatolian region of the separatist terrorist organization, near 70,000 independent parts of our district have been damaged, including some 25,000 of them, in Diyarbakir's southeastern Anatolian district, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern southeastern Turkey district, in Şırnak, in Şırnak, in Central Cizre, Silopi and Idil. Our damaged citizens have been compensated, new housing has been built, infrastructure has been restored, new recreation sites have been made in the region, and our cities have had a new face with street health projects. The region's reconstruction and care work continues at full speed. In this area, nearly 25,000 new dwellings and trade houses have been built, and studies have been carried out, considering the social and cultural structure of the region. In particular, the work of Diyarbakır Surici, which has historical value, is carried out with great precision. Recovering damage to every region of Surici is being carried out, as well as many productions, regulations, and restorations aimed at uncovering the historical fabric of the field, as well as the value of Surici. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been granted 748 thousand rights as part of the sale of 2/B properties. The sales price of 511,000 in sales is 11 billion Turkish liras, and so far 7 billion 800 million euros have been collected. In the sale of the treasury's farmland, 57,000 owners have achieved their rights. In order for our farmers to benefit from contractual rights, such as the support of agricultural productions, and to address conflicts stemming from non-contact use, we have implemented the arrangement to rent treasured farmland directly to its users over half of its pricing cost. We've achieved 82% success in the application. We began to evaluate the applications and completed the rental procedures of 3,000 of our citizens with the necessary conditions. In this case, 180,000 farmers have applied. We're still working on the rental arrangements. Mr. President, our ministry is taking fast, innovative steps at the point of improving the quality of services for local governments, improving service standards and guiding local governments. In this context, significant gains have been achieved by CYDES and e-belief projects. One of the most comprehensive and important rural development projects in our Republic's history, the CSEDES project has contributed greatly to the meeting of the most basic infrastructure services in the countryside, such as road and drinking water. Between 2005-2018, 12 billion 232 million and 508,000 Turkish dollars were used as a part of this project, and 1.5 billion dollars were earmarked for 2018 were transferred to our respective municipalities. Another of our efforts to contribute to local government services is the e-people project. Our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, which serves 20 million citizens over 9 million a year, continues with an effective and quality service work. As part of the property cadastro activities, in 2017 the treasure received $10 billion 700 million, and in November 2018, about $10 billion,200 million in tuition. The property cadastro information system has been established and all of our country's property information has been transferred to electronic media. The system is set up to apply for an online transaction before citizens go to the title office. By sending the necessary documents related to this system online to the deed managers, it can only be completed by going to the deed manager in the signing process. Ninety-nine percent of cadastro studies across the country have been completed and are now in the process of completion. It will benefit in many areas, such as the registration of the price that we run our studies and the short-determination system, the creation of value maps across the country, the monitoring of value access, for reasons such as earthquakes, terrorism, the taxing of value increases in public investments and regulations, the establishment of a fair property tax system, the ability to contribute to local election analyses for investors. The Public Housing Authority, an entrepreneur and producer institution of our state, performs an important function in the development of housing for our citizens, especially in market conditions. 86% of the dwellings produced by the Turkish People's Witnesses over the past 15 years are social housing.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0639par0307	Here, complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0638par0308	In particular, about 95 percent of the housing we have produced in recent years is a social home. Within 15 years, the number of homes that have been auctioned and produced has reached 833,000. THE ten-year average of building a dwelling is about 55 dollars. These dwellings are primarily given to our citizens at a small and medium income level, and are reserved for disabled, martyr families, disability and pensioners. For pensioners with no property, the number of dwellings we reserve from each project is 25 per cent, which is due for up to two hundred and forty months. The construction of health, education, security, sports and service buildings, built under protocols with housing production, along with ministries and other public institutions, continues simultaneously. I'd like to give you some numbers on this. In 15 years, our public housing administration's presidency has built 1,055 schools with classes of 23,284, 266 hospitals capable of 40,120, 72,000 student-access homes, 933 trade centers, 211 public service buildings, 19 stadiums and lovehouses, many social equipment and rectification sites, including the public education centre, cultural center and community centers. In 2017, TİKİ gave the 2.092 families of martyrs and duty disability, and in 2018 1,364 martyrs and duty-designed families an interest-free mortgage. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as a ministry, we will continue to work with the development of the environment of investment while protecting the environment as well as the creation of living, healthy and safe cities, based on the development of social donuts and green areas. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget of 2019 was good for our country and our nation. I thank the esteemed President and members of the Plan and Budget Commission for their contributions, our deputies, all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0640par0314	Thank you, Mr. Secretary: The last word for the executive is for Agriculture and Forest Minister Bekir Pakdemirli. Here you go, Mr. Pakdemirli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0641par0319	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I am honored to address you under the roof of the High Council. First, of course, in today's case, I ask for the mercy of those who lost their lives in the accident, patience for those who are left behind, and immediate healing for those who are injured. And a thank you to the ministers before me, because I've come to a ministry of two ministries, and it's really been served a lot for 15 years. Beyond these services -- this bar is a high bar -- a service is expected of us. The late Inönu has a saying that the opposition does not approve. It is very true, and it is very natural that the opposition will criticize itself, so that the power will gather itself, and will serve better. There's nothing more natural.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0642par0321	The reporter of Fox TV also wants an apology from you, Mr. Secretary. Let's face it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0643par0322	Dear Yım, please... Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0324	If I ask my esteemed deputies, it's a really limited time, there's a lot I'd like to talk about. Please let them listen to me. I'm going to tell you what vision we're going to try to put here about the Department of Agriculture as much as possible, and I'm going to try to answer the problems that have been talked about, specifically addressed and general throughout the day. A little bit, of course, and the talent is a compliment. I mean, we really came here, and we need a little compliment to be handy. I need the help of all our lawmakers under this roof. Why do you need help? We have really hard homework. We've given her homework all night, we've got it from each other, but agriculture's homework is really hard. We're not in a world of roses, and we're not in a world where we're going to black out the back of the neck, so we need to be aware of that. There are similar problems all over the world. I live with the German Minister of Agriculture. The German Minister of Agriculture says: "What do you do about migration from this village to the city?" So I said to him, "Look, we have a Young Farmer Project. He bought it, took care of it, and maybe talked to me for 25 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0645par0327	Did he stay young in the village and have a project?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0328	Ladies and gentlemen, please listen carefully to this, United Nations data: Turkey is the 1st agricultural product in Europe. There's no point in that. It is also the 7th place in the world. (AK PARTY) More importantly, we are the 17th in the world as a land source. You know what that means? Anyone who knows math understands that we're good at our resources. Oh, would that be better? Sure. We all have to work together for better. Every time I talk, I say, more or less, it's more important than the agricultural defense industry. They say, "Ya, whoop-de-doo." I say it's more important than the defense industry, because you'll have food bread first, and all the others will come. Technology comes in, information comes in, information society comes in, everything comes in, but you'll have bread to eat. Recently, thank God, the Secretary General of the National Security Board paid me a visit. I said to him, "I want to present to the National Security Council." He was very happy, and I told him why. Here's what I said: safety, food safety, food credibility; these issues are very important, we have to present at the National Security Board. I said, "Well, it's really taken care of." Hopefully, let's see, we'll do that later. I'd like to tell you a story about an anecdote I lived in Davos. They said, "There's a company today that hasn't been built in the world yet, and it's going to be the richest in the world, before 2035." It's probably going to be a remote education company. Here, Google, Apple, Apples are being built, and they didn't exist 20 years ago. Before 2035, the richest company in the world will become the remote education company, which is not today, they said. Oops, so you're gonna say, "Why are you telling me, are you the Minister of National Education?" They say the second or third largest firm will be an agricultural and food company. So it's really going to be the leader of the world that feeds the world. I'm on the road to 81. Soon, very soon, when we share it with all the partners -- and of course we'll share it with you because we need your support -- we'll put together our five-year business plan for agriculture. This is really going to be a memorizing project, but we really need to be walking side by side with the living. I know you'll be convinced of that, but with the living, we have to take this together. What's a couple of headlines from here? With the two ministries united, we need to shift this central administration a little lower, and we need to move on to basin-based management. Because he's got DSI, he's got forest, he's got agriculture, we've got to give him our powers from the center a little bit more slowly, so that we can run this thing better. We have some very valuable bureaucrats down at the station, all of them doing good work, but when you centralize a lot of things, you can do some things wrong. As soon as I arrived at the Ministry, I set up a motto to my fellow bureaucrats, saying, "We're going to do this right away. It's impossible. It's going to take some time. We really have work to do right now, and we have structural problems in agriculture. We need to address these structural problems, spread them over time, and expect them to be resolved in time. I demand the support of you worthy members of the High Council. Do you have to be a professional about that? The late Ozal has never hired men from the same discipline, so the Finance Minister from the financier didn't. Isn't agriculture an economy after all? Don't forget that, too. Oh, on the other hand, if I may say so, I'm the one who gave birth to a family of agricultural martyrs, my late father died making farm machines. We've been in agriculture for thirty-five years, we're in family; I'm still in, I'm still a grape farmer, I'm still an olive farmer, I still have chicken coops, I still produce olive oil, I'm in agriculture. What kind of world do we live in, what kind of world are we headed for, if we take a very short tour of the horizon? A population that has reached 10 billion in 20 years is a world that is going 70 percent urban without becoming 55 percent urbanized, 50 percent more food needs, besides desertification and climate change. There's a painting like this in Turkey; it's not going to be 100 million, but we need a population of 98 million, 80 percent urbanization and 50 percent more food growth. We really need to do this homework, we need to increase it by 50% in 20 years. Our ministry has two main tasks. One is to protect the manufacturer. On the other hand, we have to look after the consumer.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0646par0338	You don't do both, you don't protect either, you protect a middleman.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0339	We need to get this balanced, and the manufacturer will make money, and the consumer won't eat too much. A country can import and export, so of course we have to produce all of the strategic products, but remember, Turkey -- if you go into the forest, you'll find a thousand stories, friends, let's not go into the forest -- is a country that gives you $17 billion in exports, $12 billion in net agricultural exports. It's in the net.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0647par0342	Raw materials, raw materials, raw materials, raw materials.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0343	Supports...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0647par0344	You're an importer of 6 to 1. Raw matter... name the raw material. You just said you were a farmer. I'm producing zeytin. You said this, I'm producing this. You said, as a farmer, let's understand how well you know.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0345	Supports...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0647par0346	You're an importer of 6 to 1.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0648par0347	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0348	There are 16 billion in support in 2019. So we could be talking about this all the time, and as soon as I came to the Ministry, I asked: "Friends, let's look at an analysis of the impact. It's not really that easy to look at, but when we look at the impact analysis -- let's do a general perspective -- we can do it in 16 years -- it's eight times more, 20 percent more plant production, 180 percent more animal production, 146 percent more milk production. There's been a general criticism of the support here, about the payment of the remaining support. We'll pay for all the support we have left before New Year's, and we'll report it from here. There are three or five main pencils that we're going to call the address of agriculture: planning... we can plan a little better. If we use optimization here, this 50 percent food increase looks like we can get 20 to 25 percent of our homework from optimization. On the other hand, speculative prices can happen all over the world. I'm in this business, no one tells me a story, the potato that was 20 euros/ton in Europe last year is 340 euros today, my friends. It happens to every country. Shall we plan it better? Let's plan better. Should we protect the consumer or protect the manufacturer from these speculative prices? Let's protect it, but let's all work together. Another area is a scale. So here are 400 acres in France, 950 acres in England, 60 acres in us. We need to be expanding this scale a little bit, we need to be working on it. We have completed six million hectares by massing, and we need to complete another 2.5 million hectares by 2023. On the other hand, we have logistics losses. So we're saying the price is getting very expensive from the field to the table; we have a 10% loss in the field, 20% loss in the field, 10% loss in the market, 10% loss in the house. Here's the state law, retail law... we've been touching Hal's law a lot, we've been talking about it a lot lately. Let's hope we make it the best. The precious House will bring it. But I think we need to talk about retail law. The retail law says... [[Noises from CHP rows]] If you'll just listen to this. ...you will sell 1 percent local product or geographically marked product. I say 20 to 25 percent. If the national market is selling some of the produce in the back field in front of it, then we've solved maybe 80 percent of the logistical problems. Because today the state law addresses 30 per cent of the total tonage, 70 per cent is now in what we call the modern channel. Which is why we need to take the retail law slowly. On the other hand, civil society must, of course, develop, this condition for democracy, and I think the importance of the troops in agriculture is too important, and I think the troops should create a value. But as of today, we have 14,200 cooperatives and troops. In the early days of the ministry, I did a very well-meaning calculation, so I thought I'd make an appointment for each of them, listen to them for half an hour. I'm supposed to give them an appointment for two and a half years. Fortunately, there are 14,200 of them, rather than facing 80 million, but we need to make them worth something. We always call it co-op, we really need to run the co-op, we need to run the troops. We need to get the manufacturer and the consumer to join them. Watering is very important. I'm really asking our great Parliament for help with the irrigation. There's a very simple account, and you're all going to the voters, on the one side of your mind: we spend about 40,000 liras to water a hectare, but it pays itself back in five years.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0649par0358	We'll take care of it at 20,000, don't give it to the contractors, we'll take care of it, no need to make the followers rich.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0359	Yeah, well, if we carry out our plans for irrigation, we're up 31 percent agricultural revenue. We just said 20 to 25 percent of optimization, 31 percent. Yes, the agricultural sector is one of the most affected sectors, unfortunately due to commodity prices, and the agricultural sector is one of the most affected by the increase in agricultural foreign currency, but don't think we're asleep. How do we increase support to minimize its impact on the villagers, how do we minimize the impact, look at these, and check the rising costs, maybe we've disturbed the market from time to time, but we've looked at ways to control the increasing costs. We've given discounts on 15 percent possible bait, 15 percent fertilizer. We raised the support of wheat and barley from five cents to ten cents, and we raised the fertilizer support from $4 to $8. Now, there's one more thing in general: you have to give the support of 1 percent of the non-national. Look, when we put DSI's investments, subvanse loans in the support, it's almost two percent closer. Whether there's more to the heart, we can give more to our peasants.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0650par0362	Read the relevant article again, Mr. Secretary, it says 1 per cent of direct support, read that law again.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0363	Anthrax... look, I'm talking about something very important, and this is the last time I'm going to be talking about anthrax, and I'm going to be talking about anthrax for the first and last time in the House. Look, anthrax is a skin disease, it can pass by on antibiotics and infect people from animals.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0651par0365	It's lung disease, lungs, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0366	There have not been any recent cases of death in Turkey, and last year, the year before that, the year before that, the year before that, the year before that, the year before that, the year before that, the year before that, in Turkey. This is not imported by imported animals because the incubation period is five days when you load an animal from Brazil. An animal with a 30-day transfer period has to die on the road in five days. These very simple things, please, but please keep them in mind. Look, as long as you're talking about anthrax, your babies' schools have unsolicitedly produced meat from their menus, needless to say, meat consumption in Turkey has dropped.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0652par0367	Two and a half million people are dying in the world, Mr. Minister. Can you say there's no Turkey?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0368	Now, if you're telling us today, you've been importing too much meat. No, meat consumption has fallen in Turkey. This should no longer be an issue in Turkey. No minister, regardless of what he thinks, will knowingly feed an evil product to a citizen of the government, my friends.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0653par0370	The mad cow is coming from Poland!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0644par0371	Now, here's what you're saying: there's milk coming from America, isn't there? We imported four kilos of imported milk from America. Please, if you're going to criticize, if you can't find something to criticize, come to me, and I'll give you some material, but don't come up with a story like that.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0654par0372	Did 270 thousand tons of milk powder come or not? The Minister has an answer! The Minister of Agriculture told me that you imported 270 thousand tons of milk powder, your minister said that!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0655par0373	Mr. Gürer, please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0654par0375	Mr. President, their own ministers are saying it, and we're not.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0655par0376	Mr. Gürer, please, let the Minister make his speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0656par0378	Bravo, thank you all for importing four kilograms of dairy from the U.S., so you can criticize the entire Department of Agriculture, bravo, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0657par0379	270 thousand tons of milk powder! I'll give you the answer. The minister of 270,000 tons of milk powder has given me the written answer, and I'll give you the answer.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0656par0380	One more thing, Sudan. It's a very critical issue, but I really think that politicians in their cocoons should look outside. If we, as Turkey, are going to farm in Turkey, we will look at the horizon, friends, we can't farm without looking at the horizon. The land assigned to us in Sudan is 10 percent of our land, including waterable today in all Turkey, and free of charge. We'll assign it to the Turkish farmer.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0657par0381	How do we do that?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0656par0382	Tomorrow could be famine, could be something else. Why don't we just buy a free land and use it? (CHP rows) America uses it, China uses it, France uses it, England uses it; why, why, why? Get out of your cocoon! Get out of your cocoon, get out of your cocoon!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0658par0384	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please let's not interfere so verbally. Please, dear MPs... You go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0656par0386	I really do have a congrats, but this is really a congratulations. There's been a question about the woods, and I can't remember which one of our friends. It's a very good math question, and I'm asking my friends at the Ministry of the Forest: What about my brother, he's not keeping an account, see what that is? I mean, we built so many billions, what happened? In general, they told me that they convinced me that once, the saplings stand small. He stands very often because he's small, so there's a lot of saplings in very few areas, and then they open them up, but the short estimate is: 4,2 million hectares of 4 billion 200,000 saplings are planted, 808 in one hectare. If you don't believe me, count it.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0659par0388	That's it!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0660par0389	I mean, you're very sympathetic, Mr. Secretary, very sympathetic, yes!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0656par0390	We're the 1st in the world in forest fires.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0660par0391	You've got to be kidding me!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0656par0392	Friends, there's no name; we're the first in the world in forest fires. And our 15 minutes of intervention has been down to 13 minutes since my Ministry, when friends are motivated, and I've been walking around in fires with them all summer. I'm hoping for ten minutes of performance from my friends. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Hopefully, we will continue our struggle until one tree in Turkey is burned.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0661par0394	You're putting it out with a flying palace?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0662par0395	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0663par0396	We know exactly how it burns.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0662par0397	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Please, if we talk so heavily about our position, we won't be able to establish the meeting order of the General Assembly. Please, please... You guys keep talking.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0401	Outlying areas of agriculture...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0665par0402	What about the assignments?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0403	That's a real criticism. So I looked at these. Between 1989 and 2005, 120,000 hectares a year went out of agriculture. There was a law in 2005...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0666par0404	In 2012...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0405	...and we're down to 60,000 hectares by 2016. In 2017, we dropped to 39,000 hectares. I think I'm trying a little too hard, and we're getting a lot of demand, but we're at 17,500 acres in 2018, guys. There's a successful performance here, and hopefully it'll get better.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0667par0407	You didn't let go. There's a bunch of poplar trees left.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0408	The dams... 276 dams were 541 dams, 105 HES 534 dams. God bless whoever nails this country, especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Why?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0668par0409	But you sold the nails that got nailed. What about the guys who sell nails that get nailed down?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0410	They said that until 2002, we arrived at the 28,410 megawatts in 2018, with the capacity of the HES 33 megawatts established by our own people.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0669par0412	What about the assignments, the engineering assignments?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0413	I'll come to that, too, if you'll just... I'll come to that. We're from the hay...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0670par0416	You imported the hay, thanks to you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0671par0417	You need the hay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0418	Sure, it's hay, isn't it, yes?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0670par0419	Thanks to you, we've seen the imports.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0420	Turkey's crude need for bait has been imported at 66 million tonnes, only 10,000 tonnes of hay. 10,000 tons imported in 66 million tons.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0670par0421	Shame on you, shame on the country, shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0422	Please come to me with numbers when you come to me. Don't tell stories, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0672par0424	You're mixing straw with straw, that's not true. The stem is separate, the hay is separate, the corn is separate!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0425	The appointees... they're really curious about this, but remember, friends, many of our ministers, many of my predecessors, may have made promises. Look, one of the promised ministries is the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, and the other is the Department of Forestry. The two ministries met. I want to be able to employ some of our really unemployed young people in our Ministry. Of course, the government isn't the only business gate, and we have to remember that, but at least let's get some of it out of the way. In the early days of my Ministry, I immediately -- one of my findings -- I went to our Minister of Education, saying that in the first 15 years, we need to get our children to meet the land. So we said we'd reopen these agricultural high schools, and in 2019, we'll start to see the first examples. So I went up and I said, "How do we make agricultural engineering, veterinary, water products, forest engineering more valuable again?" We need to make these more valuable. What I'm going to say about these appointments is...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0673par0428	Let's wrap this up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0429	Our two ministries have merged. We're doing the norm staff work right now. Norm, I'm guessing the staff work will be done in a few months. After that, we'll sit down and come up with a need plan, and after we apply to our proper ministries, we'll renew our request for the appointment. The demands for the appointment of our ministers in the past are now in the Treasury and Finance Ministry, but after we've finally removed the norm staff, I think if we need something to do with it, we'll take the necessary steps to make the necessary assignments. Something was said about the citrus, about China. Believe me, we worked hard to get to China. So far, we've had a success with cherries in selling goods to China. Hopefully, we're expecting an appointment with the Chinese Minister of Agriculture as soon as possible to make the citrus. The day we make the appointment, we have our bag, and we're going there because we need to diversify our market, and we can't just do it with the Russian market. The issue of GMO... Turkey is a free country, my friends. Our acolyte in Turkey is beyond the acquish of the European Union, and it actually means that we're getting a little more expensive product than the next market. In regard to GDO, there are no GMO products in Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0674par0432	There's GMO bait, there's GMO bait.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0675par0433	You didn't save the sugar mills.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0434	There are 35 genes in the feed industry that we approve of in corn and soy, 120 genes approved by the European Union, my friends.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0675par0436	Mr. Secretary, we want two words about sugar factories.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0676par0437	You didn't say anything about beets, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0438	Turkey is a cleaner country than Europe. I went to Azerbaijan the other day, and I said, "You can have all of Turkey's products. We don't have cotton, we don't have fruits, we don't have vegetables, we don't have GMO, we don't have GMO, we don't have GMO.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0677par0440	Here, complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0664par0441	Yeah, I had a lot to say, but I wish our 2019 budget was a blessing. I'd like to thank our group, your valued deputies, our Plan and Budget Commission, and most of all our esteemed President. I respect all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0677par0444	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0678par0445	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0677par0446	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0678par0449	We listened very carefully to the Minister, he has a funny way of saying it, so he often made our friends laugh, and we thank him. As I listened to him, I remembered a joke: The boxer always gets beaten up and his trainer says, "You're very good, my son." The boxer came to the corner of Perperishan and the coach said you're still very good. The boxer asked, "Who is beating me if I am so good?"
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0679par0452	People are beating you up.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0678par0453	I'm asking the Minister, who beats our nation if you're really -- the condition of our nation -- if you're so good, why is our nation so miserable, why is it so poor? When you look at your disguise, your clothes, your shape, you look like a very nice person, but go out into the fields, talk to the farmers, get out of your room, see what our farmer looks like, you'll understand. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary thanked the former ministers during his speech. I couldn't figure out why. The previous ministers needed Turkey's hay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0679par0455	It's either that or the hay.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0678par0456	If he's saying he's gonna make it better than this, just don't let him depend on us for those in need of this straw. He says he rents land abroad in Sudan, saying that America, China, etc. I don't know what the land of America or China is, but...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0680par0459	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0678par0460	I don't know how much land the U.S. needs, China needs, but Turkey has given us enough land, enough water, and we have enough people, and we don't need anyone, as long as you don't keep building your policies that will make us needy. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0680par0463	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0681par0466	I thank you for the comments, but we're talking about what we're talking about again. I gave you the numbers on the hay. These are small numbers that can't be taken to any castles, only 9,000 tons.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0682par0467	It's $25 million!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0681par0468	9,000 tons of friends, 9,000 tons against 66 million tons. The best scales are people's scales. People are giving you your dues, so don't worry. This land is enough, but it won't be enough in 50 years. If you come back 50 years later, maybe the AK PARTY has done well, it's a good thing he rented land from Sudan.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0683par0471	Get elected first. An appointed minister is taunting the chosen. There's no world like this! Choose first, choose first!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0684par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0685par0473	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0684par0474	Just for the record. When the ministers are stuck, when they can't answer their own questions, they say the people know the best. They don't seem to know what's good in people, they're really victims, they're really very victims.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0686par0476	Do you despise the people, or do you despise the people?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0687par0477	You're insulting people! You're insulting people! You're telling people they don't know!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0684par0478	My advice to the Minister is not to make the nation needy by doing his duty well. The farmer doesn't know himself, the agriculture industry doesn't know him.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0687par0479	He knows, he knows.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0684par0480	But the people who know him aren't out there right now either. So let him think for himself.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0688par0481	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 C) BUILDING PRODUCTIONS WITH CEZA AND UNIVERSE PRODUCTIONS [[Continue]] 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account "I") ORMAN GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Dear lawmakers, on behalf of the individuals, I now pledge to Aydın MP Suleiman Julbül, who has asked for a word against you. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0689par0532	What's that? What's that?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0533	Earth, earth...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0688par0534	Mr. Nightingale, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0535	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Unfortunately, we're not dealing with the public budget, we're dealing with an insatiable court budget, and I'm saying it's clear. This budget is the budget of the financial interest lobby and of the import lobby in agriculture. Dear lawmakers, the term "importal agricultural product" is the biggest betrayal in agriculture. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, you're from Manisa, you're from Manisa, you know the Aegean, you know the plain of Gediz in the Aegean, the plains of the Great Menderes, the plains of Little Menderes, the fertile lands, do you know that? Mr. Minister of Environment, do you know that, again, in the Aegean, there are geothermal thermal plants in these fertile farmlands, JES©s, and many plants that have been established? See, I came here to talk about agriculture, and I brought this land from Aydın. I was going to open this land and tell the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Environment: Do you know the state of women in Kızılçaköy who seek the rights of JES (for self-defense) to fight but eat pepper spray but are dragged to the ground? (Applause from CHP rows) Mr. ministers, Minister of Environment and Minister of Agriculture, come to Aydın, stay under the acidic rain pouring out of the chimneys of those JES©s; come on, let's open the window, let's smell that rotten egg; then come out, and respect the struggle of those Redville women; there's nothing else to say, my friends. (CHP cheers) Or this land, earth, earth...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0691par0541	No, no!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0542	Mr. President of the Group, I'm not going to throw the land away, and I'm going to say, not even this land will accept you, my ministers.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0692par0544	You fall to the ground, you fall to the ground, and you spill the earth to the ground.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0693par0545	What do you care if he accepts land or not?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0546	Dear friends, I'm giving up my budget speech on agriculture, I'm a lawyer, we've tried to get an agrarian out of a lawyer, I'm going to law school. Mr. Justice Minister, what I'm about to say here is a link between the past and today, and this is the land of that farmer, the oppressed farmer, the poor farmer's land, my friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Minister, when I was president of the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0694par0550	Which county is it, which district is it, which district is it?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0551	...in that Constitutional vote held on September 12, 2010, we will remove custody of the court. Wasn't it the AKP who handed over the judiciary to those who said, "We will bring independence of the judge, we will bring his neutrality?"
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0694par0552	Which county, where, which district?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0553	Minister, I'm sorry to say... I'm very sorry today, and I'm sorry to say that we expected a speech from Mr. Secretary who responded to the reviews of the budget, and we expected an embrace of all parties from the Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0695par0554	You haven't studied.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0696par0555	That's what he did.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0556	Mr. Secretary, under the 138th Amendment of the Constitution, we would expect judges, judges, judges, judges, not to be segregating, and their decisions not to speak impressively. We would expect Mr. Secretary to stand equal distance from all parties, from the MPP to the HDP, from the AKP to the GOOD PARTY, to the right to a fair trial in Turkey. As a representative of the justice department, we would expect his speech to be in the constitutional framework, waiting for him to tell us about worldly events. We would expect the Minister to step up the principle of righteousness under Article 70 of the Constitution. We'd expect the Minister to consider the events of the past to date objectively. See, friends, if you're going to criticize the 1990s, if you're going to criticize judges, prosecutors in 1990, if you're going to criticize the appointments, you're going to criticize today, you're going to be objective. Let's go back a little bit, back to the recent past, what was there in the recent past? Minister, on the judge's exam, you've narrowed the base score down from what? Why did you drop it, then take it upstairs? That's my first question.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0697par0565	Complete, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0698par0566	You didn't tell me where you were district president, but you answer the question!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0567	How many people did you judge who served in the AKP after this download? That's my second question. Look, friends, the judges are worried, the judges are worried, and after the decision we make, they're worried that something's going to happen to us. The lawyers are worried that we'll end up in jail after our defenses. You know Omar Kavili, you know other lawyers, and we all know how many judges and judges have changed their decisions in our president's case. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We didn't forget the President of the Constitutional Court's greeting at the reception on August 30th. We haven't forgotten that you're looking for a button to button up the head of the court. We have never forgotten that at the court's 150th-year reception, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan would come out and say, "There is no justice in the land if there is a cry for justice in a country."
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0699par0571	Remember the judges on February 28th?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0572	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0700par0574	Well, let's wrap it up, Mr. Nightingale. Last speech, one minute, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0690par0575	Law is like land, friends, law is like land.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0701par0576	And where did you get that land?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0702par0577	Pot soil?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0701par0578	He brought her from the military greenhouses. They call you!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0703par0579	If you feed the soil well, you get good products, but if you're not objective, if you're objective, if you're not independent, you get bad fruit. I salute you all. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0704par0582	Thank you, Mr. Nightingale. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the third round of speeches is complete. Now we're going to question-answer. We have a total of 20 minutes to process this. We spend ten minutes of this time on questions, ten minutes on answers. Now, according to the order of entry into the system, I'm going to give my word to the valued lawmakers. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0705par0588	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded, for our citizens who died in a high-speed train crash that caused us all a great deal of grief in Ankara. My first question will be to our Minister of Environment and Urbanism. Does our Ministry have any work to do with the adoption of non-registered areas into the economy? My second question is to our Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. The Director General of the Forest is an organization that has devoted its forestry activities to difficult terrain. An average of 2,500km of forest roads are constructed each year for basic forestry activities, fighting erosion, fighting forest fires, producing and so on. He buys the business machines he needs when he conducts these successful studies. Is there any interest in buying these business machines as domestic and national by the Department of Forestry? What are the studies on this subject? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0706par0593	Mr. Self-Subject...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0707par0594	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the train crash, and to their relatives, and to our nation, and to the wounded, and to the health of the sick. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, there are problems with deforestation in the region of Şanlıurfa, Harran, Akchakale and Suruç. While the project of drainage channels should continue with the collectiveisation law, the construction of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has led to a waste of time and the victimization of our farmers. In order to end these sacrifices, the areas that are missing in massing must be completed and the drainage system must be completed as soon as possible. Otherwise, the land in these areas will be inoperable and the national capital will be wasted. My second question: land distribution parcels can be paid by the owners for the first four years without paying, ten instalments per year. We have 31 years of villages over the distribution of land, and there are parcels of disbursement debt. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In these parcels, there is no transfer and sale except the inheritance provisions. The loans requested from the Agriculture Bank for the liquid funds for agricultural activity are not available to the owners or farmers due to the mortgage barrier. After the death of the right farmers, the heirs of the existing land have changed hands from generation to generation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0708par0600	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0709par0601	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General, for the record, I'd like to ask you one more time. What is the latest situation regarding the courthouse, which is scheduled to be held in my constituency of the election district, and when will it come to life? That's what I want to ask you. Is there any study of green passports for lawyers? Young lawyers, particularly, need to improve their working conditions, have problems with CMK and legal aid practices. Is there going to be any improvement? My second question is to the Minister of Environment. In Dilova, coal miners pose a serious problem with the OSB. I asked about it in Plan and Budget, but unfortunately the Minister of Environment didn't answer. The mayor also visited. What did you talk about during the mayor's visit? Are these Charcoalists going to be removed from the OSB? The lungs of Izmit (Izmit) want to build a garbage factory in a single forest area. The Izmitians are seriously against it. Are you determined to build this garbage factory at the expense of poisoning people? In Gebze, the districts of Hurriyet and Yavuz Selim have property problems. Are you going to solve these problems?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0710par0608	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0711par0609	Thank you, Mr. President. The perfect painting that the Minister of Agriculture presented in his presentation, unfortunately, today the agricultural sector, which the opposition has all day, is the problem of farmers and because of their far-off responses, attitude and style, I withdraw my question to him. And since we have a genius nation gardens at the end of a power killing the environment and nature, I don't have any questions for the Minister of Environment, but I would like to point out, Mr. Minister of Justice, that the Reform and Action Group Meeting should be held after three years, but there will be no concrete steps unless taken. In this sense, what concrete steps will you take in the context of fair trial, long imprisonment without indictments, freedom of the press, independence of the judiciary, the disregard of AID decisions, that will have a direct impact on everyday life, especially in the international and European Union, and in the context of democraticisation and freedoms that will be welcomed? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0712par0612	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0713par0613	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, when are you going to pay the farmers 1 per cent of the budget according to the Agricultural Law, Article 21? When are you going to give the villagers back the trades that were taken to the municipalities by the Metropolitan Law again? Third, Mr. Minister of Environment, do you have any work on victims of urban transformation? Again, thousands of homes were built in the Country, Nation, and Victory neighborhoods, and they were declared a site of the SCE because of the flood zone. Residents are victims. There's been a step towards this, what's the latest? Mr. Minister of Justice, the legalists are left without judges in the rebellion, and those who exist are deciding according to political will, not according to law. The rights violation files are piling up over and over again, and you keep setting up settlement commissions to pass these files over. The teachers are now talking about the pointlessness of teaching law in college, but unfortunately, I've seen from your earlier speech that you have no intention of seeing these problems or solving them. I'm not asking either. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0714par0620	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0715par0621	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question is to the Minister of Justice: In the courts, the general management of bailiffs, who are responsible for almost every transaction of the pen, including the archives, mail, paperwork, and documents, must be taken into the general management service class. It is unfair to impose so much responsibility on them and subject their rights and salaries to the assistant service class. Do you plan to put bailiffs working at the courthouses on the staff of general administration services to deal with this injustice? My second question is to the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry: A blow to animal manufacturers who have lost value and priority in importing and production costs is hit when they apply for the slaughter. Today, the feeder who applied for the slaughter of his animal is given the day after two or three months. That's why the victims are increasing. Mr. Secretary, when will this sacrifice end? Are you going to make an attempt to resolve this problem? Also, in your speech, you never mentioned beet producers who were victims of privatisation. Will you make any attempt to solve their problems?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0716par0625	Mr. Ilyas Sugar...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0717par0626	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions are for our Minister of Environment and Urbanism. Question number one: Turkey's unfinished cadastro was completed in five years with the AK PARTY. However, the vast majority of the pre-AK PARTI cadastro, which is about 22 million parels of graphics, is also the main module of the geographic information system, which unfortunately cannot be used because it is not connected to the country's coordinate system. In order for the cadastro to be used in the geographical information system, what kind of study is being conducted at the point of digitization of cadastros and correcting their mistakes in places that have not been digitally produced by ancient technology in the past years? How many parcels have you done these studies? When will these studies be completed? My second question: the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate serves over 30 million people a year and performs a deed every second. How do you measure the satisfaction of our citizens in the deed and Kadastro General Directorate?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0718par0630	Mr. Strawberry...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0719par0631	Thank you, Mr. President. On his visit to our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Amasya, he gave us great good news. First of all, on behalf of all my fellow Americans, I want to thank you very, very much. Minister, the work done with TOKI is a great success story. THE TODI (TİKİ) has done 20 times more work during our rule than before, and by the time of our rule, the TOKİ, which produced 40,000 dwellings, along with our power, has reached 840,000 dwellings. WILL the productions in the TOKI (TİKİ) continue during your ministry? That's my first question. The second question is, where will the money from plastic bags be used, and what resources will it be used? That's what he wants to learn from you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0720par0635	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0721par0636	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the ministers. The pollution of Aksu and Ceyhan Rivers continues at Kahramanmarash. How are you going to stop the establishment of industrial enterprises outside the OSB from polluting our streams? How will you prevent thermal plants, especially the Afshin-Elbistan thermal plant, from polluting the air and water? Do you plan to employ environmental health technicians and technicians in your ministry for environmental health inspection? The bottom price of sugar beets, released in 2018, is 235 Turkish liras. Entrance costs are up 50%, so do you plan to increase the sugar beets base price? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0722par0641	Dear Ali Sugar...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0723par0642	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, what we lost in the train crash today, I ask for God's mercy, and I pray for immediate healing for the wounded. The most secure transportation in the world, the railroad transport, has been turned into a life market thanks to you. In this age, you build a palace for billions of dollars, you build a dinosaur park, and because you don't spend money for signalization right next to it, people die in plain sight. It's not a hermit. After this accident, are we going to see zero resignations again, no one's going to take responsibility? When we make a motion to investigate this matter, will you say no here again? I have a question for the Minister of Environment. Do you plan on using the money in earthquake funds to help people live in safe houses? Mr. Minister of Agriculture just said that the song has an incubation period of up to five days. Anthrax has an incubation period of one to twelve days, but it lasts up to twenty-one days.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0724par0647	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Now it's the answer part. Mr. Ministers, I want you to decide how to divide the ten-minute period between you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0725par0650	There's been an accusation that our presidential coven is a fugitive. It was approved on 17 June 2011, with the Ankara Council for the Protection of Culture and Natural Beings' Decision dated 3 June 2011. The building license for the community's estate was issued on 17 July 2012, while the main building's residence license was issued on 23/10/2014. Licenses and residences are here. Studies have been launched within the framework of our ministry's first hundred-day plan of action at the point of registering non-registered areas and bringing these areas into the economy. In this area, 24 million square metres of treasure land is registered, and these lands are being worked to be brought into the economy. We're planning an urban transformation strategy in the district of Kopeeli. In this strategy plan, all the areas that we need in the OSB, Dilovai, and Alexandria, where we have priority, in this framework, hopefully will be transformed as soon as possible by the AK PARTI power. Are there studies for victims of national transformation? Yes, there is. In the law passed last week from our Parliament on urban transformation and published in the Official Gazette, we have imposed the obligation to provide and complete assurances provided by our Ministry in order that our citizens are not victims. Sources from plastic bags will be used by the Ministry to reassess these resources, to reassess the products that were thrown out. A major breakthrough has been made in many sectors, starting in 2002, from transport to industry, economic to health, defence industry to tourism. We have served our country within the scope of these breakthroughs. No one knows, except God, whether the earth will accept it or not. There are problems with geothermal plants in the Aegean region. In this area, geothermal plants are monitored regularly. In the last three years, 208 inspections have been conducted, 1 million 735,000 fines have been issued. New environmental projects related to the region are also being developed. In our country about cadastro studies -- our Elias Candy Regent asked -- there are updates on the renovation of these maps in places that have not been digitally produced by ancient technology, as a result of cadastro studies from the past. In this case, updates have been completed in 10.3 million parcels from 2010 to today. We need an update in 22 million parcels across the country. The strategic plan, designed by the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate, aims to complete the work within five years.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0726par0659	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0727par0660	Mr. President, why did you drop Mr. Nightingale's test scores? How many AK PARTIES did you take? The questions are... we look at the judges who were taken as members of the Turkish independent judiciary as qualified judges, prosecutors who wear the robe. We don't know anything about it because it's not covered by its political heritage. Such a reflex was the reflex of old Turkey, but without such a habit, the independent commission decides. (EA/DG) Therefore, a law degree and a structure capable of addressing Turkey's 81 million is being looked at. So I don't have any information about it. The commission makes an independent decision. Why did you lower the level of law enforcement? (Especially because of the need in the judiciary, it is an arrangement made in 2016, but we have recently made a statement on this issue, and it will be in our reform document; we have an effort to get this score back on the 70-band and to be more qualified. So we're rethinking 70 points. Mr. Hurriyet had a question about the Supreme Court of Justice Project. In this case, our deputies are keeping a close eye on it. The advance project part is complete, and the relevant municipal reviews are under way. Again, the implementation projects will be drawn up after the department reviews our ministry. We're already reviewing green passports and interns for our lawyers and their financial rights with all the partners within the RSS, the reform document. We've also spoken to our Home Office Secretary. It's a matter of our profession, of our agenda. Again, there was a question about our bailiffs, which we had already brought up. I welcome our bailiffs -- the lawyers know -- our friends who swallow the dust of the judge's pen, our judicial workers from here. We've brought up that problem, and we've been talking to our ministers who are interested in solving the problem. Of course, we'll do all the work they deserve in this matter together. In the Reform Strategy Document of Mr. Özdemir, he had a question about the gathering of the Reform Action Group and an assessment in that sense. REG, at the Reform Action Group meeting, we recently met again with our concerned ministers, and we have demonstrated that will. In particular, we try to create this document with both university teachers and barrooms and appliances, many different segments of society. Again, these days at the Justice Commission, we're going to work on this document with representatives of all parties. As I just said, since this document will be applied to all Turkey, we are thinking of taking all the evaluations in the framework we desire. There are headlines that we are working on both imprisonment and fair trial on this issue, which we are working on during reasonable time, and we are also doing this work to assess whether or not it is in the legislation or the application. Again, our work is still on the agenda about the CMK, legal aid, the financial rights of lawyers, the rights of public defenders that they need. Friends of our Finance Ministry also attended study group meetings. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0728par0669	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0729par0670	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Ali Cumhur Taşkın, AK PARTY MP: Are the business purchases of a business machine taken care of by the General Directorate of the Forest to be domestic and national? We are being sensitive about it as a ministry. According to our General Directorate, 28 tractor TIMOSANs in 2018 were taken from local companies, including 29 excavator-label MIT Hydromeks, 59 exclavators MST Hydromek, 44 greyder Hydromeks. MHP Kahramanmarash MP Sefer Aycan: do you intend to increase the price of the Pancar? (As of today, the price of the beet is $235, and the farmer's price -- the price of the property -- is around $185. As of today, there's no change in that, of course, for the new season, there's going to be a separate price.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0730par0672	Are you going to drop the quota?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0729par0673	When it comes to farmers who are victims of privatisation, sugar beets, it's called snow or something, but all the time, even in the state, the private sector, they're still planning to buy until January. Sometimes in the private sector, it's a little bit more... you know, they might be thinking about the financials, but as the Candy Department, we're really following this very closely, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0730par0674	Mr. Secretary, that's not how many people used to rip their beets off the side of the road, that's after the privatisation.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0729par0675	It's also about anthrax... there's no way that an animal with a 30-day transfer time could have been imported abroad to Turkey. Anthrax is a germ that lives in our geography and can hide in our mera for fifty-six years. Let's not talk about this again and again, guys. It's not a threat to public health. As for the criticism of the Mera... we're not giving the municipalities anything. It's reserved only for livestock. Private sectors are never assigned to people. In some special cases, it is possible to allocate mera to the public.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0730par0677	You didn't leave anything unrentured for forty-nine years.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0729par0678	Drenage works are performed by the DSI in the region of Şanlıurfa, Harran, Suruç and Akchakale. We also continue to work on the distribution of land to the rightful owners in Şanlıurfa. [[Noises from CHP rows]] I mean, be a hugger. You're saying you don't let them. How are we supposed to be huggers?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0731par0681	Don't hug us!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0732par0682	Mr. Secretary, you go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0733par0683	Mr. Secretary, take this cost out of an eight-polar beets, and tell me what it's worth to $235, and we'll know you're an agricultural man.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0734par0684	Yeah, let's work it out, let's get it out.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0733par0685	How much does the nine-polar sugar beets manufacturer have in his pocket?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0734par0686	Let's work, Congressman, let's work.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0733par0687	You don't have to work, you know.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0734par0688	But let him talk! Let him talk!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0735par0689	Go to the front of a sugar factory and listen to that beet maker.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0736par0690	Mr. Rootsal, Mr. Saribal, please...
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0737par0691	$140 for 9 polars, 140. You call it costing 180, 40 cents. Are you fooling people?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0738par0692	Look, you make a lot of noise, but you've condemned Turkey, here, look, these. You've condemned him to the queues. That's your Turkey!
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0737par0694	You did, you did.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0739par0695	You guys go ahead, get in front of the privatized sugar mills, listen to the beets makers.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0740par0696	You feed people pork, horse meat, donkey meat.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0741par0697	Thank you. Mr. Institution, I'll give you a short notice, and you can complete your statement in a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0742par0699	The question regarding asbestos pipes by our Nüğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer Beyin... has changed the drinking water pipes of Bor City with its own means, and has not made any demands from the Provinces Bank.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0743par0700	I asked about Kemerhisar and Red, and I didn't ask about Bor.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0742par0701	The Kemerhisar City's drinking water has been launched by the IIBANK for the exchange of asbestos pipes, and funding is under way. The asbestos pipe has not been used since 2000. 75% of asbestos pipelines have also been changed. Pollution in the teenager's basin: Yes, we will, hopefully, fish out there. For this fish, the largest environmental project launched by our President in 2011 was launched, with five wastewater treatment facilities and infrastructure access to the sea from these waste water treatment facilities and started construction. Three wastewater treatment facilities have been completed under this construction, and two of them are under construction. This will also clear the rivers of Tekirdağ, Kırklareli, Edirne, and Ergene, which have been polluted by municipalities in that region.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0744par0705	Mr. Secretary, two to three months after the application for the slaughter of the animals is scheduled. You didn't answer that question.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0745par0706	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear lawmakers, the question-answer part of the talks is also complete.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0744par0708	What are you going to do with dry lakes? What about the lakes in the lakes?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0745par0709	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let us proceed with the voting process. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now hand over the budgets of public administrations, which are now in the third round, to your votes separately, and to their budgets and final accounts: I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 27) EARLIER AND GOVERNMENT 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2019 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 2,573,286,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's central management budget was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's final account of central administration in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 5,474,229,256,67 Budget Expenses 5.080.750.535.38 Cancelled Grant 171,748,888,40 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 221,729,832,89 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Administration account of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate be transferred to the central management budget in 2019: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 27.75) CAPU AND KADASTRO GENIOR PRODUCTION 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 1,113,861.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate of 2017 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total Payment 1,172.940.019.80 Budget Expenses 937.197.999.71 Canceled Fund 80,971,435,94 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 154,770,584,15 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Departures of the central management account of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Justice will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Ministry of Justice 2019 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 18,035,989.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Justice was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Department of Justice's Central Management account of 2017 will be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Justice Ministry Central Management Terms for 2017 Total allowance 13.296.119.300.00 Budget Expenses 13.171.963.056.19 The grant goes to 65,216,77 Canceled Fund 124.221.460.58 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Administration account of the Ministry of Justice in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Department of Corrections and Executions and the Employment of Prisons shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.41) PRODUCTION OF CONTRACTIONS WITH PRISON AND UNIVORCE PRODUCTIONS 1) The Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 986.824,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0746par0770	How are these people going to live with this money?
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0747par0771	PKK people enter, fuckers enter, abusers enter.
tbmm-2018-12-13sit07spe0745par0772	I'm reading the sum of the income ruler: TOPLAM 986.824,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association of Prisons was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Account of the Criminal and Execution Institutions of Prisons and the Association of Businesses in 2017: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Criminal and Execution Institutions and Prisons Employment Institution 2017 Central Management Term Total allowance 4.090.709.000.00 Budget Expenses 3,699,258,269,31 Cancelled Grant 391,450,730,69 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 1.075.795,000.00 Collection 3.973.660.169,16 Ret and Returns 1,716.597.70 Net Collection 3.971.943.571,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Penal and Execution Institutions and the Employment Association of Prisons were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Academy of Justice in 2017 will be transferred to sections of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.10) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 24,328,500,00 Budget Expenses 18,329,431,98 Canceled Fund 5.999.068.02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 22.244,000.00 Collection 17.734.34,57 Denied and Returned 1,005,92 Net Collection 17.733.338.65 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of Turkey's Justice Academy's central management account in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.61) THE RIGHTS AND ACTIVITY OF TURKEY 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 12.972,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 12.972,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The central management budget of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association's final account of central management in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 6.844,000.00 Budget Expenses 4,135,008,99 Canceled Fund 2,708,991,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 6,844,000.00 Collection 4,563,274,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association's final account of central management in 2017 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the Institute for Protection of Personal Data shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 42.11) PROTECTION OF PERSONAL CONTROL 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 33.770,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 33.770,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the Institute for Protection of Personal Data was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Association for Protection of Personal Data in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 15.020,000.00 Budget Expenses 6.524.539.80 Canceled Fund 8.495.460.20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Collection 15.288.137.68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2017 were adopted by the Association for Protection of Personal Data. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forest should be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 30) THE ARIM AND THE ORMAN'S LOOK 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 33,743,778,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The budget for central management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in 2019 has been approved I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the final account of central management in 2017, will be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 30) GEDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY 1) The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 19,690,528,685,81 Budget Expenses 19,212,268,129,38 Canceled Victim 478,260,556,43 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 243,622,098,36 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting has been approved for the final account of central management in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in 2017 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 33) ORMAN AND WATER WORKING 1) The Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks Appointment Indicative Account for Central Management 2017 Total allowance 14.845.351.085.64 Budget Expenses 14.164.630.431.16 Cancelled Fund 680,720,654,48 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 27,165,915,81 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Administration account of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorship of 2017 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 42.09) STUDENT AND ALCOLPY PRODUCTION 1) Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 155,000,000.00 Budget Expenses 150,528,116,46 Canceled Fund 4,471,883,54 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget Profits estimated 140,000,000.00 Collection 168,620,706,54 Ret and Returns 18,092.590.08 Net Collection 150,528,116,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. A final account of central management of the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution has been approved in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Director-General of the Forest shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 40.17) ORMAN GOVERNMENT 1) Forest General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 3.310,410.000 TOPLAM 3,310,410.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Forest General Directorate was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Forest General Directorate of 2017 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Forest General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 3.373,136,488,62 Budget Expenses 3.266.234.207,91 Cancelled Fund 103,896,800,78 Transferred to the Next Year 3.005,479,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget Profits estimated 3,113,820,000.00 Collection 3.398.625.326.42 Ret and returns 9.867.197.28 Net Collection 3.388.758.129,14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Administration account of the Forest General Directorate were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the State Department of Water should be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.57) ACTIVITY OF SURVOLUTION 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget Gen. TOPLAM 9.206.045,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 9.201.045,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the State Water Affairs Directorate was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the State Water Affairs General Directorate's central management account of 2017 will be transferred to its specific sectors: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 13.606.382.145.95 Budget Expenses 13.581.152.236.56 Canceled Fund 21,071,572,56 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 21,426,784,34 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget revenue estimate 12.881.062,000.00 Collection 14.029.373.173.17 Ret and returns 2,242.483,45 Net Collection 14.027.130.689,72 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2017 of the State Water Affairs General Directorate have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Meteorology will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 30.75) METEOROLOGY GENIFER 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 416,750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the meteorology General Directorate was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the General Directorate of Meteorology in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 330.694.939.67 Budget Expenses 321,597,062.55 Aborted allowance 9.097.877.12 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7,776,656,34 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the meteorology General Directorate in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.58) ENGLISH INSTITUTION 1) Turkey Water Institute 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 3.958,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 3.958,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Water Institute's central management budget was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Water Institute in 2017 will be transferred to sections of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 5.579.000.00 Budget Expenses 4,290,486,81 Cancelled Fund 1,288,513,19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 5,579.000.00 Collection 3.517.712.47 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of Turkey's Water Institute's central management account in 2017 were adopted. Dear MPs, the budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the third round have been approved. I wish them well. This concludes the third round of talks. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Friday (December 14th 2018) to discuss the budgetary final accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
