tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, Mr. Ayalew, Ambassador to Ethiopia, and our chairman of the Turkish-Etiopian Inter-Etiopian Friendship Group, Mr. Hasan Sert, have visited our Assembly, and we welcome them on behalf of our Parliament. [[Applause]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Artvin Uğur Bayraktutan, an Artvin MP who wants to talk about the problems of the district of Yusufeli. Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, I salute you, first and foremost, my fellow citizens who follow us on television, especially in the coffeehouses of Yusufeli, in the workplaces. Due to the construction of a large dam in the District of Yusufeli, the esteemed MPs are underwater. Three years ago, I had a conversation here with a coffin, and I said, "You're burying a county alive," and we're looking at a sad picture. Why? Dear MPs, here's the thing: Look, there's a viaduct study that will connect Yusufeli to the new settlement. There's a problem with this viaduct study, and the public is very victimized about it. Why? Because the work on the new settlement has not been completed, valuable MPs, but a study is being launched by the General Directorate of the Highways, which will connect Yusufeli to the new settlement, link him to the new settlement, cross 200m, and pass over 200m, and will pass through the heart of Yusufeli. If this work begins... because it is not completed with the new settlement, there will be a study right below it, in the heart of Yusufeli, in the heart of the heart, and there will be people, the tradesman, my dear friends, who will face a deep loss. Why is that? Look, the place to do this is the center of the district of Yusufeli. This is Halitpaşa Middle School, where there are 700 students; there are over 20 of my dear friends; there are tradesmen; they will close their businesses; there are about 100, there are about 58 dwellings, but we're dealing with a painting that can't be expressed by these local numbers, that can affect the entire county. Dear lawmakers, if this viaduct study begins before the new settlement is completed, we will bury a county alive. Now, Yusufeli, the tradesman of Yusufeli, the people of Yusufeli, is trying to speak to all Turkey, to speak to the great Parliament, and he says, "Because if you start this work... look, precious deputies, if even a shopkeeper is a victim here, if we empty the dwellings... it is not possible for anyone to find a house in Yusufli. We're making a historical mistake here. The construction of the new settlement is unlikely to be completed for three or four years, but what are we doing? In connection with a construction site that will be completed four years from now, we are trying to make a 200-meter new viaduct with dust and soil in the district of Yusufeli. You know what that means? It's to bury a county alive from the beginning, without anything, without construction. If we make such an arrangement, valuable MPs, we face the fact that a land-dwelling district is a land-dwelling tradesman. Thus, the people of Joseph say: "The decision that our state has made is on our heads. Look, it is not an easy event; they are taking their graves elsewhere; they have places, places where they were born; they have memories; they have dreams; they have childhoods there; their fathers, their grandparents, their graves are there. They don't say anything, but now they're getting up and they're starting today as if nothing happened -- they're going to send the official papers tomorrow -- and they're saying to Yusufellii: "Leave here. " They're trying to prefabically move the biggest school in that county, which has 700 students. Too many to count, 20, maybe more, they're trying to deter the tradesman. What's more important is that we, my dear friends, stick a dagger in a place that's considered a city center in the most metropolitan situation. Therefore, I speak to the government authorities from here: My dear friends, Josepheli, and one of the beautiful counties of Artvin. Beautiful people, they didn't say anything, they didn't say anything, they said if you want to sacrifice Yusufeli for Turkey, it's just above our heads. But they expect the government to say, "Look, this kind of work destroys a county with its memories. Now, without the dam, without the dam, before the dam is finished -- the dam is completed -- before you complete the new settlement, before you open a new settlement, I will place here one dwelling, one business place, and I will put here a 200m-high viaduct four years ago, and the people of Yusufli will be fine. If you say so, you can only express it with optimism, my dear friends. You know, the one saying, "Live man so that the state can live." In Joseph, you bury a man alive and kill him. That's why we say that Joseph's... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, dear parliamentarians, lawmakers, honorable government, hear the voice of Joseph and Josepheli. Look, there's a cry out there: the Chamber of Traders and Artists, political parties, all civil society organizations say: "There's a bleeding wound here." We say, "Come, be a salve to this bleeding wound, and remove the victims of the people of Joseph." I salute your high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Erzurum MP İbrahim Aydemir (Abraham Aydemir) who asked for promises on public support for the fight against terrorism in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia. Mr. Aydemir, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. President, the honorable MPs, the union of our country, the beka of the state, the peace and peace of the nation; let not the flag descend, and let not the oppressor cease. I commend all of you to the mercy of our martyrs, who have broken the law of national integrity and brotherhood, who, in the spirit of Aziziye, Çanakkale, wrote a new history and a new myth in Afrin. May your regaip Kandili be blessed and bless the whole universe. As a nation, we reliving an epic era with the same consciousness and the same spirit. The nation's union, the state's grave, the country's undistributable integrity, the Niyaz have risen from the households from village to village, borough to town, city to city. It's the spirit that gets me to talk. Erzurum Karayat, who calls to honor our President, who fasts for thirty days for the victory of our army, and calls for the victory of Hatice, who prays in the middle of the night, who stops by our Şırnak province, İbrahim Halil Erkan, and we want to fight terrorists alongside our glorious army. Send us to Afrin. The 70-year-old brother and hundreds of precious men, brave men... From Erzurum to Edirne Lalapaşaya, from Hakari Shemdinli to Sinop Boyabat, the prayers were one, the prayers were one, the prayers were one: let our unity and our life be eternal. Let the Lord make our army victorious. Prayers and amen have met on the horizon of our great nation, the conquerors and the Conquest of the Conquests upon us, and they have made a new history in front of Afrin. He did it with the presence of the Çanakkale suspect. Behold, we, the people, said, 'What a people we were!' Akinf said, 'Here we have shown him again in Afrin.' We did so with the hope that the prophet might open his arms, and with the horses, and with the blood, and with the holy veterans. May the Lord bless our conquest, and make our nation a saint. There's also behind the front line behind this myth, which can't be described and described by words: from the Plain of Malazgirt to the Plain of Pagins, from Ağrı to the Plain of Konya, from Teman to Cizre, from Karakocan to the great nation, from Karakocan to the struggle of wealth and strength, prayer to prayer. And the brothers of Yasevi, and the sisters of Anatolia, and Nene Hatun, and the grandkids, sent to the front, and the cupcakes, and the pies, and the calamitous fillings; and the white hands, and the white-handed sisters, they knit berets, and the gloves, and Mehmet. My brother in Diyarbakir Hani has granted his wages, his namesake in Gaziantep Carn, to those who walk on this holy road. He raced from Pervari to Gercush, from Karaçoban to Chad, from Bandirmah to Edremit, from Willow, to Akşehir, to give blood to Akşehir. A mana mana in Erzurum, a high spirit, a mana, has dedicated his life to the temple, and, although his heart was 90 years old, the young and wise man, from the valley of Erzurum, the Niyaz of Erzurum, reached the altar of the Great Mosque of Diyarbakır, Edirne Selimije, and met with the prayer of inspiration and repentance of the nation, the unity of the state. And the front: a representative army of peace, peace, justice, and peace, our saint army, whose focus of compassion, menhus, is to divide, destroy, and destroy their wretched souls, like a pack of demons, who have made it their duty to destroy the realm, the unity, the presence, and the existence. And victory. Many thanks to the one who has survived. In the light of this conquest, it is with gratitude that once again shows our holy nation and our heroic army, which once again swims at these dawns, to praise our martyrs, to our veterans; to honor all our heroes, who have rehabilitated the philosophy of rights and law, to honor and honor a nation and religion in the line of nationality, a high pride and consciousness, to honor and to honor our first commander-in-chief, Mr. President of the Gazi Assembly. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. The third unscheduled statement belongs to İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan, who wants to speak about Alevi society and the Chair of Religious Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0006par0043	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are head of the most controversial institutions in terms of their existence, status, powers, responsibilities and activities throughout the history of the Republic. Padişahs, sadrazams, politicians, even juntaists have never stopped using religion for their own power. That's why they needed an institution to control religion, and it's called the Head of Religious Affairs. That's why the Head of Religious Affairs was born of this need. The history of the presidency goes back to the Muftil Enams, founded by Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror. Later, the office of sheikhism is established; religious work, judgment, and education are linked to this office. 127 sheiküllislam takes office in the Ottoman Empire, and two of them, unfortunately, are executed. On March 3rd, 1924, the title of Chief of Religious Affairs is established on March 3, 1924. The first president of the association was Rifat Bövekçi. Rifat Börekci supports Mustafa Kemal and his friends and plays an important role in the republic's legitimacy by giving the Ankara fetish against the Istanbul government's fetish. As in the Ottoman Republic of Turkey, the state wants to keep control of religion. During the Democratic Party and Menderes, the institution is once again a powerful tool of political power. With the law passed in 1950, the Ministry of Religious Affairs is replaced and upgraded to presidential status. The mosques and mosques, which have been assigned to the foundations, are relocated to Dianet. The May 27 coup takes place, five presidents change in four years. The position of the first president of the Religious Affairs who left the country during this period is terminated by the decision of the Council of Ministers. After the coup of March 12, 1971, the junta administration appoints a colonel as President of the Religious Affairs to control the religious beliefs of the public from the centre. With the February 28th process, the institution is literally the center of politics. With the period of Mehmet Nuri Yilmaz, the bans on headscarfs, imam-hakims and Koran courses take place during this period. Retired Colonel Kalelioğlu Mehmet Nuri Yilmaz is appointed as the adviser of Yılmaz, and the central borders and central preaching practices begin at this time, which means he is taught by order. By the year 2018, the President of Religious Affairs became one of the most important institutions in the state with a budget of 7 billion 774 million. The position of this institution, which has more than the budget of the seven ministries, is in no way acceptable to the Alekis in particular. Dear lawmakers, there are foundations for the President of Religious Affairs, not just a foundation, but a foundation, actually, outside the Foundation for Religion. Friends, there are construction companies in this foundation founded by the Head of Religious Affairs again. I think this Parliament should be looking into where these construction companies are employed, what dimension they've reached. At the same time, I think that the economic level of the State of Religious Affairs and its foundation should demonstrate assimilation against people who have nothing to say but their own belief, because in the secular law state, as in the Western countries, secularism is not the religion of the state if it should be based; the state will only serve as a co-ordinator, to set up institutions to free the beliefs, to free the teachings. But today, the President of Religious Affairs has become a full assimilation institution. Dear MPs, I'd like to give you an example: Now, the President of the Religious Affairs has established a university called the University of May 29. He's taking students to this university, and he's moving on with his education. Again, friends, the Ministry of Religious Affairs grants a scholarship to 240 thousand students, totaling 56 million,645 thousand liras. He gave a scholarship to 23,982 students in 2015 and 2016. I don't think he's ever given a scholarship to an Alevi child, I'm betting, not even a Alevi child has ever been able to benefit from a scholarship from the Foundation for Religious Affairs, not just the Alevis, but the children of the other faith.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0007par0054	They don't even stoop.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0006par0055	So, who's this agency? Doesn't it feed on government budgets? Friends, we are opposed to the intervention of religion and faith of the President of Religious Affairs. We have respect for people whose beliefs, teachings, are unique. Look, it's a holy day, but if you come and convert an institution, the institution of the state, into an assimilation institution, of course we'll be against it.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0008par0057	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0006par0058	You give a fatwa, like the rulers, the representatives of the Emevi State at that time. Like the Marwan of that time, you have no right to treat the West of that period as you did the West of that period, because this state is identified with the state of law. The Republic has significant gains. The Republic's most important insurance -- in terms of secularism, in terms of secularism -- is that the Alevis are in insurance, but the Alevis are now at a point where they've blown the insurance. Because assimilation institutions have come to such a high point that even the seven-year-old child who left his home can no longer control it. Dear MPs, look, it's like that in Bornova, where the Foundation for Religious Affairs has elementary school, secondary school, high school, science high school; a Alevi child can't study there. People from other beliefs, other doctrines can't read there, they're raised in very special conditions. Is that true? Laik, everyone needs to benefit from the educational institutions of the democratic republic. I salute you all. I also submit to your grand delegation that this institution must be reviewed.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish the beginning of the blessed three months and the blessed Regaip Night, whose hearts are filled with spiritual peace, to bring blessings to all the world of Islam and to our beloved nation. I wish for peace, love, and brotherhood to replace any plague that threatens humanity on these blessed days. Again, various events have been held within the framework of World Water Day on March 22nd, to create awareness in the global sense since 1993, to draw attention to the growing water problem, to protect and encourage drinkable water sources.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0010par0067	We're removing the water troops, aren't we? We're having an event!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0009par0068	In particular, important messages for the future of all mankind are being given by events that have been carried out for the sustainable management of fresh water resources and to highlight the importance of fresh water resources.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0011par0069	Fresh water cunning.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0009par0070	In this framework, it is vital that each individual in our country is sensitive for our future and for our future. Because we know our position on water supply...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0011par0071	Canal Istanbul, Sazlibosna Dam; we know.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0009par0072	...and the saving of water is very, very important, and in that sense I say to all our representatives, all our citizens, be saints like water. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0011par0074	Canal İstanbul will consume Istanbul's waters.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0009par0075	Now, I'm going to promise 15 members of parliament who have entered the system in one minute on the basis of the Internal Charter 60. Mr. Gürer, you're back on the list.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0012par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Congratulations on the Regaip Kandili of all our people. I wish for peace and brotherhood to envelop the world on the basis of the kandil. The Republican People's Party visits 14 privatised sugar factories one by one, and the sugar is a country, not to sell it. It continues its campaign. On March 26, 2018, the Republican People's Party delegation will be present at 11:30 p.m. to prevent the sale of the sugar factory in Bor district of Niğde. Because if sugar factories are sold in our country, the farmers, the merchants, the farmers, the farmers, the workers, the workers, the people who benefit greatly from it will be victimised; in Turkey, companies in the United States will be subjected to the consumption of starch-based syrup, or high-intensity sweetener. So we'll have a meeting with our people Monday in front of the sugar factory in Bor County against privatisation at 11:30.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0013par0082	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0014par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament, especially in the last three or four days, the developments in the judiciary have been a concern for all of us. History tells us that as the authorities compare judgment to their own, the judgment is over and the judiciary is lost. I want to remind you of a painful fact: Adnan Menderes retired all judges over a certain age to make the judicial system look like himself, and those who came after this age will retire. He brought a new judicial system, and unfortunately all the judges and prosecutors who judged Adnan Menderes were his appointed judges and prosecutors. History shows that the longer you rule the judiciary, the more you consume yourself, the more you consume society. I'm telling you to stop interfering with the judiciary. The famous word of Nizamülmülmulk is in all our courts, saying that justice is the foundation of property. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is another saying: "The greatest power that protects the province is justice. " No fortress can be higher than justice, and more powerful than justice. I'm saying. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0015par0091	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0016par0093	Dear friends, members of the Pir Sultan Abdal Cultural Association have been detained for disobeying the AKP. If the AKP thinks it will intimidate those who walk in Pir Sultan's path, we will only laugh. The AKP is trying to intimidate Pir Sultan executives with a lie that they've been provocaturing civil war. Those who claim it should be ashamed of their own actions. It is the AKP itself that polarizes our nation and provokes different groups against each other. The Pir Sultan lovers are making an act of not turning out the lights by starting a justice watch in the association buildings. Despite the AKP, the lights will not go out in this country, and the lights will not go out in this country, despite the AKP. In this country, I am first human. Those who say "I am" will continue to defend their right to live and will not allow the people who try to feed on blood to pass.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0015par0095	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0017par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Environment and Urbanism through you: Kirazlıtepe and Yavuzturk neighborhood of our Üsküdar district has property problems, zoning issues, land problems, parking problems, street lights don't turn on at night. I demand that these sacrifices be removed immediately. Second issue: There are signs of bus stops in the city of Chile, Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, but Istanbul Metropolitan buses do not work between Chile and Istanbul, and public buses do. Since public buses are inadequate, our citizens travel in the way of hoarding between Chile and Istanbul. There are no specialists at the Chilean State Hospital. Most of our patients there are sent directly to Istanbul. Our citizens in Chile are victims of this. Again, there's a parking problem inside the freighter, parking should be free. Building...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0018par0103	Mr. Dogan...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0019par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Pir Sultan Abdal Cultural Association Vice President Erol Yet, members Murat Demiray, Doğan Şimşar and Akın Demir have been in custody for eight days. I would like to call upon the Pir Sultan Abdal Cultural Association, which is Turkey's largest and most important organisation in the Alevi community, to stop this illegal exercise and explain the matter immediately.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0018par0107	Instead of Mr. Kayishoglu, Mr. All...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0020par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. The bill, which brought control of the Radio and Television Oversight on the Internet, was adopted yesterday by AKP and MPs from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've also learned that the sale of the Doğan media group to the Demirören group took place at the time of the debate. With the sale of AKP ruling Doğan media, it has added a new media group to the pool media. In a country where journalists have been thrown into prisons, where pool media has become one voice in the country, where social media is banned, freedom of the press has now been completely eliminated. As Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım said yesterday, the July 15 coup attempt was once again successful. No dictatorship has remained in power for many years. Never forget that this pattern of impact will not go like this, and it will soon be destroyed. As Ahmet Şık said, I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0021par0113	Mr. Aydemir is replaced by Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0022par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the Regaip Kandili of all my beloved nation. March 21st, World Forestry, March 22nd, World Water, March 23rd, I wish the Earth's meteorology Days to make a significant contribution to our country at the beginning of spring. We're one of the few countries that has increased forest presence, a government that has attracted the attention of the world in the field of forestry. Our goal is to get our forest area to 30 percent of our country's area in the year of the 100th. By 2023, we will have completed the meeting of 7 billion seedlings to each of the 7 billion people in the world, which our ministry has determined. Thanks to the meteorology infrastructure, today, many countries are getting the right information from us. We've submitted weather forecasts to the service of the industry, which is important for sailing. I want to thank everyone who's worked day and night, and who's worked hard, and who's worked hard, and who's worked hard. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0023par0120	Instead of Mr. Ünal, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0024par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Congratulations on Regaip Night. Forest Week and World Water Day are also the anniversary of the death of Badi Saidi Nursiya, and the war of Uhud. The Regaip is a harbinger of three months and a harbinger of future lamps, a very important, popular night. A land covered with forests is a corner from heaven. The tree is the charity of the thorn. The tree is also the krill of the wood. Whatever there is in the universe is the rain of the rain. In time, Israel is the gateway to poverty, to poverty. You think desire is an idea. Even though the eye of reason is closed, the eye of conscience is open, and the conscience looks out the window of the heart. The battle of Uhud is full of painful consequences of insubordination and the desire to take a share of the spoils.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0025par0128	Mr. White Star instead of Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0026par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm here to present a question that was asked in Sivas, at KYK, on the staff exam of subcontractors, to the knowledge and appreciation of your valued deputies. The question is, how many days does the lamp get cleaned up? It's almost as if it's mocking people's minds. Now, if the intention here is the light bulb of the AKP in the lamp, I assure you, it won't be cleaned even if we bring it zemzem water. Now, no, but if one of the ministers is wondering if there's such a thing, is it true? I'm prepared to give the ministers detailed information on this matter. I give you my compliments. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0027par0135	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0028par0137	Mr. President, first of all, I congratulate all our citizens on Regaip Kandili. Like our religious values, our cultural values, and customs are one of the most important things that connects us to one another, making us a nation. The Parliamentary People's Music Choir, which was established seven years ago under the instructions of former Parliament Speaker Cemil Çiçek, who served under parliament and represented the institution during our important days, has not been able to work for nearly two years because the Turkish People's Music Choir has not been granted the necessary permits. Is the president of the House of Culture uncomfortable being told of our songs, which make us who we are in the House of the nation representing the national will, expressing our sorrows, our joys, or has he not heard of such activity? Mr. President, I'd like to ask you, as acting Speaker of Parliament, to resume the work of the Turkish People's Music Choir with the permissions required to resume the work of the Turkish People's Music Choir. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0029par0141	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0030par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, March 21st, World Forestry Day was celebrated with various events throughout the dorm. From our most renewable resources, our country's lungs have done enormous work in the last 15 years as the AK PARTI power in order to protect, improve and expand our forests. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is our president, has been set for the record with the mobilization campaign launched by our president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In the last 15 years, 49 million, 968 thousand acres have been worked and 4 billion 39 million saplings have been met with land. In the last 15 years, our forests have increased by 15 million acres, and our total forest area has increased from 20.8 million hectares to 22.3 million hectares; hopefully, our goal is to reach 23 million hectares in 2023, which are 30 per cent of the country's territory. On this occasion, I congratulate you on the Regaip Night, which we will understand tonight, and wish to bring peace, happiness, and peace to our beloved nation, the entire Islamic world, and to all mankind, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0031par0146	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0032par0148	Mr. President, while our country is regressing in the field of democracy, law and freedom, the issues that concern us are breaking records. The European prisons statistics of 2016 were recently announced by the Council of Europe and the University of Lausanne. According to the report showing the state of the 47 member states, 244 of every 100,000 people are arrested among Turkey's member states, which ranked second. Turkey, which raised its rate of imprisonment by 162 per cent from 2006-2016, ranks first in this area. Zuhal Olcay is punishing the art of prison. This painting is an embarrassment and concern for our country. The government must take immediate measures to change this painting, to establish peace and security in the country, and avoid conflicting and segregating rhetoric and practices. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0031par0150	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0033par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. We owe it to Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, if we have fought the Liberation War to drive the enemies out of our country and built an independent state. Let God give it to Ataturk, however long I have to live. The Istikllal anthem, written by Mehmet Akif Ersoy, which represents our national independence, is the common anthem of all of us. There's no one who doesn't hum or get emotional or even weepy when the anthem is played. The AKP wants to design a Turkey in its own way. First, they removed the acronym for the Turkish Republic of Turkey from the front of some ministries, institutions. My Turk, my righteousness, and my hard work. They were afraid of their words, and forbade our oath. By sending troubled people to many corners of the country, the authors of the Ataturk and the love of the Republic tried to transform our people. But no matter what you do, you will go away, and in the near future you will go away, and our anthem will remain forever.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0034par0155	Mr. Boyraz...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0035par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. O master of eternity, I want to reach you. Wait, don't close my windows, The concrete is so cold, I'm cold. That's how he told me how he felt. He said, "He couldn't know, nor could anyone else know, that the place to say goodbye to life would be as cold as the poem he wrote 25 years ago." In a sense, the verses written on the broken stones of Mamak Prison were also the lines of Yazıoğlu's destiny. Not on a white page in a black hole, but on the white snows of Berit. His life was filled with endless struggles, a thought, a man of the cause. Whether he shared his view or not, he was a man whose skin was hard - tempered by Anatolia, where everyone appreciated the humanity, the gentry, the dignity of every nation. He lived as one of the thousands of citizens who were raised in the bosom of Asia Minor, and in the evening he was lost in the unknown of his hometown, which he loved as much as his life; and his going and his presence were silent, lordly, in his own way.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0036par0163	Mr. Ozkal...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0037par0165	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, every year we experience the joy, peace and happiness of being reunited with the blessed three months known as a spiritual regeneration season and a mercy climate. Regaip means that they want, they want, they want, they want, and they try to get it. It is a night in which God's forgiveness is poured down upon us, and it is sought after. Regaip Kandili is an effort to direct our desires, desires, to good, to good, to good, to right, and to truth, to make all our works acceptable to him. Our demand should be not only for anything else, but only for him. May it lead to the redemption of mankind and the resurrection of the Islamic world. God bless our Regaip Night.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0036par0167	Mr. Hakver...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0038par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I congratulate you on the lamps of everyone who does not use religious politics and trade. During our visits to Mardin last year, water was not pumped into the fields due to blackouts, even crops burned in the fields. In the course of time, the problem of Mardin was not solved. Yesterday, they called from the village of Kızıltepe Arılı in Mardin and said they hadn't been powered for five days. Because of lack of electricity, schools can't even be trained. I gave a problem to the Minister about a year ago, but he hasn't been around in over a year. I'd like to address the Mardinns from here: Mardin has given two deputies to power. In the next election, don't vote for the AKP's power, which buried Mardin in the middle of the Middle Ages.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0039par0174	Mr. Shield...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0040par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 58th day of Operation Olive Branch, which was launched on January 20th, our Armed Forces and the Free Syrian Army took control of Afrin, with Allah's permission. 3,700 terrorists have been neutralized as part of the operation. The treacherous plans of those who seek to make Afrin a new Kandil have been eliminated by this action. Our fight against terrorism will continue until the terror corridor, which threatens our country, is completely wiped out. Let all the evil centers know that as the Turkish Nation, whatever faith we have fought against in Çanakkale is the same faith and determination today. On this blessed day, I pray for the mercy of God to our beloved martyrs, to our heroic veterans, who gave their lives for the sake of the land, the nation, and the holy.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0039par0179	And finally, Mr. Lion, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0041par0181	Thank you. You know, Hasankeyf wants to be underwater. The new Hasankeyf was supposedly built. The new houses and shops in Hasankeyf are now being asked to leave their former homes before they are delivered. Therefore, the people of Hasankeyf wanted to march in the morning to prevent their homes from being destroyed, to make a statement to the press, to intervene with police pepper spray, and I would like to say that we condemn this intervention from here. Today is the night of the Rebaib Kandili, the night of mercy and forgiveness, but on such a day, it is in three holy months that our people in Hasankeyf are asked to be taken out of their homes. I'd like to point out to the people of Hasankeyf that we are here to support democratic, legitimate, remissive legal actions as well as our greetings and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0042par0185	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the members of the group who entered the system. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0043par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. We've just received a report from the agencies that there are martyrs and wounded from the explosion of a homemade bomb trapped in a building in Afrin. It is said that there are no details yet. May God protect our soldier, our policeman. Of course, that's the thing about terrorism; there's civilians living there, there's civilians coming after that, and they're being set up with bombs in places where they live or live, and then there's literature called "Afrin Peace Island." It's impossible to understand that. We already understand the pain and tears left behind by the day. Yesterday, an Afrinian father, in tears, left neither honor nor children; I had eight children, all of them gone. Our brothers and sisters made a speech that moved all of us, saying, "Let me be a sacrifice to the Turks," and welcomed the Turkish soldier. So Afrin hit the island of peace in the face of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). There was a fire on the roof of the Army State Hospital today. I wish our patients, relatives, and all health workers well. I'd like to take this opportunity to celebrate the Regaip Kandili, of our beloved nation and the Turkish Islamic world. I pray to God that this lamp may bring peace and peace to our unity, our unity, and our geography. We are approaching the 9th anniversary of the death of Muhsin Yazıoğlu, a person who worked for the existence and unity of our nation, who is working for his future, and will be the 9th anniversary of his death on Sunday (March 25th). And We remember him with mercy, and to those who love him, and to our nation I offer my condolences. Blessed are those who give thanks for the bread that they have earned without betraying the people they were born into and grew up in, adding service to their nation for the meaning of their existence.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0044par0195	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0043par0196	Happy is the day he lives, and even after he's gone to the eternal world, that society still remembers you for good. One of those names is Ziya Gökalp. ==Early life==He was born on March 23, 1875 in Diyarbakir. Instead of being insensitive to society's suffering, he put together such an idea that he stitched up the marrow of Turkish history. To know him is to witness the fall of the Ottoman Empire, to know him, to witness the founding of the republic, to understand the foundations of the foundation. Gökalp, one of the first Turkish sociologists, wrote important articles on sociology, systematically systematic the idea of Turkishism and performed in his works. He systematically explained the principles of the Turkish and nationalist movement in his work, The Originals of Turkishism. He sought a solution to the problem with the approach he summing up, Islamism, conundrum, and showed us the goal, saying, "What is Turkey and what is Turkey and what is not Turkey and what is Turkey and what is Turkey and what is a great country of life?"
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0044par0199	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0043par0200	By giving the answer to the question, "Where is the Turkish soldier who has chosen to crush the head of the tyrant, to put out the fire of the oppressor?," he has shown that he will walk to that goal. In difficult times, this society was able to survive with the gems it extracted from its insides. And these things are born today, and they are brought up, and they serve the land with love, and they migrate to the everlasting world; and may Allah have mercy on all of them, and may He be pleased with them all. I'd like to end my words with Gökalp (Azker Prayer): How many rams are there in the square of heaven, They were martyrs for religion and for the land, Smoke the stove, hope it doesn't go out, Do not grieve the martyr, O Lord. Do not take away your seed, O Lord. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0045par0209	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0046par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. When I was a student at Ankara Law School, I wanted to commemorate Prosecutor Doğan Öz, who had died in the morning of his departure from his home on 24 March 1978. On the morning of the day of Prosecutor Doğan Öz's murder, the Security Directorate was called and reported that there were two suspicious persons in Ankara Kızılırmak Street where Doğan Öz's house was located, but the police didn't take the call seriously, saying, "Is there something going on with you?" In those days, the politicians also spoke to the accused, who, thirty years later, as we have seen in the death of dear Hrant Dink, all political murders have been carried out in such a way. The military Supreme Court, in fact, violated its basis in its case, and acquitted the accused, İbrahim Çerçak, despite the court's ruling, and the court was seen as stable by our court that the accused İbrahim Çerçer (Abraham) killed the victim, but the decision of the Military Court of Judiciary Offices is binding on the basis of the majority of the vote. Who is Doğan Öz? Why did this happen to you? He was elected lawyer of the year by the Turkish Law Agency in 1970. He is an administrative prosecutor who signed a petition for the removal of death sentences in the same year.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0047par0216	Let's move on. Here, let's finish.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0046par0218	At the same time, he was a prosecutor who conducted a corruption investigation into Akgün Erbakan, the brother of Necmettin Erbakan. He is a prosecutor who launched a petition against the DGM Foundation Law in 1973, and most important of all, Doğan Öz is the prosecutor who began investigating the contrastilla, which many were afraid to mention his name at the time. We honor him. Unfortunately, justice doesn't hear any other screams, and just as that case still hasn't been concluded, as it did not result in righteousness, yesterday Nevin Yıldırım, who defended his life because he had been sexually assaulted, was given another life sentence, and that judgment is actually encouraged by politics as well. Because we see it in the papers again today, having his girlfriend dragged into the woods and beaten up...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0047par0221	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0046par0222	...and this Mudanya subsidiary is later rewarded and made Governor of the 40s. Indeed, such things actually contain the courage that politics actually gives to the judiciary, or that Zulfikar sword, which, like the Governor of Kırşehir, we will also enter the holy place, which includes those who say, "We will enter Jerusalem." Fortunately, he's retired, he'll dream about it, but in real wars, the poor are dying, so I'd like to remind you once again. Finally, if you'll excuse me, there's an important report from the United Nations, published the day before, by the High Commissioner for Human Rights. And in this report that the effect of the State of Emergency on Turkey in 2017... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0048par0226	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0046par0228	... KHKs during the period of the State of Emergency are said to have violated basic human rights and Turkey's obligations in international law. 152,000 public officials have been fired, some have been detained, more than 4,200 have been dismissed, 570 judges have been arrested, 1,480 judges have been investigated. According to Interior Ministry data, 159,506 people were taken into custody under the State of Emergency, 300 journalists were taken into custody, 166 press organizations were seized. The number of passports cancelled in July 2016 alone exceeded 50,000. There have been 263 detentions in the southeast. It's called torture. This is the United Nations report on our country, I'm afraid. He's about to deliver good reports on brighter days. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0049par0231	Thank you. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0050par0234	Mr. President, I'm celebrating the Regaip Kandili of the entire Islamic world. Once again, I ask for God's mercy on Mr. Dogan Oz. My fellow congressmen, our nation is dying of cancer. What funeral did we go to today? What did he get cancer for? A month ago, he had nothing. Young people die, we give our bright women to the grave. One of the main reasons is that we feed. It's very important what we feed on, how we feed on. While there was a struggle these days, Hande Firat, who, by the way, told us about the cuisine of the Ashland, the palace, what it was cooked, what it was cooked with. In that kitchen -- I won't extend much -- but desserts use honey instead of sugar and flour, and they don't use the flour that we know of, they use almond flour. Of course, it's our government's reputation, our nation's reputation; the President will live in the palace, of course not using sugar, but using honey. He won't use the flour we use, he'll use the almond flour. But don't condemn the people to NBŞ. We say that the sugar factories are being shut down; it's a pity that we've lived, we've lived in TECEL, we've kept them alive; they've been operating, closed for three days; they're condemning our people to starch-based sugar; they're giving our cheap NBS people cancer; they're killing our children; they're killing our children; they're not hearing it, they're not hearing it; we think that we're not passing our voices through the palace walls, because they don't know they don't have sugar in the palace kitchen because they don't have sugar.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0051par0238	Let's finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0050par0239	They'll never know what starch-based sugar is. If the royals don't even use sugar, they use almond flour, not flour that we use, of course, for $100 a pound. The people's children may not be able to use it, but don't keep killing our people by shutting down your sugar factories and handing them over to the monopoly capital and handing them over to the factories established by sovereign forces. When we say these things, you get angry, you get red, you get hot, and then you don't give treasure aid to Republican People's Party municipalities who actually serve the nation. The banks of the provinces are being cut off. Their services to the nation are being cut off. We want to send healthy milk to our children so that they don't get cancer, that they're happy, that you're in the way of the services of our municipalities.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0052par0243	Let's finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0050par0244	We say, live in good health, build infrastructure, be happy, live in peace in their homes, you're blocking the Republican People's Party municipalities from doing municipal work. You're not blocking Republican People's Party municipalities, you're destroying our nation's chance for a peaceful and comfortable life. Don't make our nation have cancer, don't punish those who serve our nation.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0052par0246	Thank you. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0053par0249	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the very beginning of my words, I wish for the blessing of Regaip Kandili. I congratulate all of the Islamic world and all of our citizens on Regaip Kandili. May the month of mercy and forgiveness bring blessings to our country, to the world of Islam, and to humanity, as a harbinger of the holy three months, when unity and unity, the brotherhood grew stronger. Besides, I just got word from the agency. In Afrin, after Operation Olive Branch, after the purge of the terror organization, the terrorists, the cleanup of the area, unfortunately, many improvised explosive bombs and traps have been set up. We have said this before: One of our soldiers had been martyred by the ambush of the Qur'an again. As shown in these photographs, we know that many handmade bomb traps are in Afrin, where the toys, the sacred Korans, are camouflaged in the way the children's hands can reach. As a result of the explosion of such a trap... the operation must be carried out for about 58 days... where Turkish Armed Forces, our soldiers, Mehmetçuks, and the members of the Free Syrian Army have been very sensitive... so that civilians may not even bleed their noses. But unfortunately, the homemade bomb traps were left behind, and there was a sensitivity to it. As a result of a bomb like this, we have martyrs there, God willing. We ask for God's mercy to all our martyrs until now. We send our prayers to our soldiers, our Mehmets. We have wounded and wish them well. This shows how justified the operation here is, how legitimate it is, how legitimate it is, that the purpose of the operation is from the terror and terrorist elements of that region...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0054par0253	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0053par0255	... that there was cleansing of the mothers' children over 15 years old, that the children couldn't play in the streets because of these traps, and that the Turkish soldier, as the Free Syrian Army, had entered it, had never known the Kurdish, Turkmen, Arab, had no right to live; that they had no right to live; that the crisis tables had been established; that they had been tortured by the people there; that the PKK and the YPG had been tortured by the people there -- how their children were tortured -- how their children could not send their children to the streets -- and how the children could not play on the streets because of these traps -- and how our children had been able to bring them back to the streets, and how much they had been able to create peace, but that our Turkish soldiers, together with the struggle of the freedom of the Free Syrian Army, and how our forces had been established, and how the crisis tables had been set up.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0054par0257	Let's wrap it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0053par0259	Hopefully, I'd like to point out that we're in the mood for another piece of news like this. Of course, what I'm saying is that from time to time there are sayings here, here are the investments in our defense industry being criticised. It's a good thing that Turkey has given a great deal of importance to the defence industry, its own domestic and national production in fifteen years of change and transformation -- our own drones, our own tanks, our cannons -- because as a country that has been fighting terrorism for 40 years, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) -- today the terror that has been created outside the border, against the terrorist groups that are trying to be created in our south -- and how there are 5,000 trucks, 2,000 trucks, up and down to the world today -- how we are digging tunnels -- and how we are going to build tunnels once again in the place of international law.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0054par0262	Complete.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0053par0263	Of course, in order for our defence industry to become much stronger, the right part of this righteous struggle to cleanse the terror elements has been divided, and will continue to separate. Until the last terrorist is wiped out, I say this battle will continue until the end, without separating one from the other, without using one as a subcontractor, for the peace of our country, for the peace and peace of the world, and for the peace of the world. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0054par0265	Thank you. That brings us to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Thursday 22/3/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 22 March 2018, Parliamentary Assembly Deputy President Filiz Kerestecioglu proposed that his talks be held in a merger Thursday (January 22/3/2018) in an effort to determine the full extent of the proceedings of arrested lawmakers and journalists and to investigate the issues of which they had not been tried. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak. Mr. Adıyaman, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0055par0283	Mr. President, before I speak, I wish that the Muslim world would be the cause of peace, freedom, democracy and brotherhood. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on our group proposal. As you know, in the history of Turkey's politics, especially in the field of law, since the past, there has been a political trial at all times, and in every period's extraordinary conditions, we've always experienced the processes of the current authorities to silence, crush, crush, and enforce enemy law. In the past, there have been courts of sovereignty, martial law courts, special-level courts, which have been influenced by political authorities at every time. But today, the AKP's government has established a ruling on the entire judiciary as a whole, not a special authority court, and unlike the past, private courts have been held hostage, but now all courts have been held hostage. Even if I give you two concrete examples of this, it will make it clear how political the judiciary has become, that the AKP's government has been condemned. First of all, as you know, the Constitutional Court has ruled a violation of the rights of the Constitutional Court of Alpay and Mehmet Altan, but this decision has not been approved by the local court and has not been respected by the Constitutional Court's decision. So, why wasn't it heard? Because I don't respect the decisions made by the Constitutional Court in the past. The local court, where it took courage, did not follow the Constitutional Court's decision, which is an upper court, and did not respect it. What's wrong? Look, Secretary General Jagland of the Council of Europe made a statement, what did he say? If the Constitutional Court is not respected as an effective application in civil law, all cases in the European Court of Human Rights will be accepted. The General Assembly of the Constitutional Court immediately convened and ruled. The second example is: A few days ago, judges withdrew the rules in the palace, and within 24 hours, the daughter of the State Department was promoted twice; one, she was appointed as a judge of the Handişı, and this time she was appointed to the Supreme Court of Appeals in 24 hours. The president of the Board of Judges and Prosecutors has made a statement in order to correct the situation, but his apology is greater than his guilt. What did he say? Well, not only that, but 27. So there are 27 torpedoes. We only know one torpedo, 27 of them. Now, my dear friends, these two examples are a clear example of our two co-Chairs, Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, all of our deputies, all of our journalists and all of our party's executives. With the coup on November 4, 2016, the principle of commonality was destroyed in the judiciary once. In accordance with Article 37 of the Constitution, the principle of judicial rule and the principle of the court have been violated, and courts have been created within the campuses. They were stripped of access to the evidence. All requests for an investigation are denied by the courts. It's come to such a stage that no court today can make a decision without the political authority's approval of the embezzlement. In other words, the enemy law of political power, the method of political revenge, is being carried out by justice. There's an expression among the people that the man who steals the minaret makes up his cover. Now, the AKP, who stole justice and law, is trying to justify this theft of justice and law by the hand of the judge. For him, the injustice of today's lawlessness, injustice, will come back to haunt the AKP in the first place. The AKP's favorite Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror has a famous saying. What does Sultan Mehmet say? It says: "The day you buy the woman, you buy justice."
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0056par0290	Please complete.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0055par0291	Yes, the day you buy the woman, justice dies, and the day justice dies, the state dies. Now, that's exactly what the AKP is doing. The AKP, which buys the woman, kills justice and actually kills justice, is the foundation of justice property. So today, the law of the AKP is not only against our party, but also against all opponents, but also against the law of the law of the enemy, which is the law of the law of the law of the law, which is both law and order, and silence of the opponents is the method of taking them hostage by the hand of justice. Therefore, as part of our motion, we demand that a research commission be set up by the Parliament. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0057par0295	Thank you. The first word on behalf of the groups belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Parsak (Afyonkarahisar) on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Parsak, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0058par0298	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group on the advice of the HDP group. I hereby salute the Veterans' Council and your esteemed deputies. Before we go into our thoughts about the group's proposal, I would like to express my condolences to our beloved nation, the holy Turkish state, as well as to our former Vice-Presidents, who we just sent to the mercy of Hakk. In the same way, I pray to God that the Regaip Kandili, which we understand today, is a blessing for all of us. Members of parliament, when we look at HDP's group proposal, there is essentially a demand to investigate the consequences, the effects of this action, on the charge that many examples have been given so far and that the judiciary has become political this time through the arrested MPs. Many such groups have so far asked for the establishment of the HDP research commission over and over again, and we, as the National Movement Party, have consistently and consistently taken a stand against the group's proposal and voted on it. We'd like to say in advance that in terms of this group's proposal, we'd like to say that we'd vote against you as well as if the individuals involved in the group's proposal didn't reflect the truth. I mean, for reasons that do not reflect the truth, because when we look at the group's proposal, many HDP MPs are accused of being tried, even though there are no MPs from the National Movement Party, after the Justice and Development Party and the National Movement Party's alliance and the removal of parliamentary immunity. Is that the truth? It's definitely not like that. The removal of immunity, as it will be remembered, was a constitutional amendment, and without a referendum on the Constitutional Amendment, immunity was lifted by the decision of the Veteran Assembly, followed by judicial proceedings, and at the beginning of that process -- look, I'd like to underline it -- for the first time before the invitation came to Ankara Court, and for the first time, it was Mr. President-General who went and testified to the court. Thus, this and many such claims, the argument, never reflect the truth. We also think that this group's proposal to influence the judiciary may have a lot of consequences, and again, we reassert that the group's proposal should be rejected, and we salute the Veteran Assembly with our respect.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0059par0305	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Zeynel Emre. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0060par0309	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. When we look at HDP's group proposal, we see that there is a research proposal for the specialisation of the judiciary and on the biased decisions that are being made as part of its theme. Actually, it's a little bit more than that, where we are today. So when we say that the politicalisation of the judiciary, that politics has some kind of effect on the judiciary, and that the judiciary has decided in terms of politics in its decisions, that's what I wish it were that simple. So with a reform package, with some arrangements for the independence of the judiciary, maybe that can be avoided. However, in our situation here, politics is now judicial. I mean, politics is under my jurisdiction, just as it is, as it is, that all institutions in Turkey have been subject to justice. We can now say that we are dealing with a completely judicial policy. There are some very striking examples of this, for example, of negotiations going back and forth behind the scenes of the release of arrested journalists. No one can say that the evacuation of Deniz Yücel was an eviction order issued by the independent judiciary. Because it turns out that the German authorities were planning to take their own citizens out of here just two days ago. Right after the Prime Minister's statement, there's an eviction notice. Now, in a situation like this, we can't talk about independent judgment. We can't say that the statements made by the European Union regarding Ahmet Şık have no effect on the evacuation of Ahmet Şık. The relationship networks of both future judicial members and current members of the judiciary are also one of the key indicators. For example, the daughter of the Chief Prosecutor, the Justices of the AKP... Now, when we look at this photo, all lawmakers from within the judiciary know that there can't be a Supreme Court review judge 24 hours after being appointed as a judge, friends, there's no such example. I mean, what did the D.A. get the prize for? The Chief Prosecutor went to collect tea, received his prize. The Chief Prosecutor criticised the main opposition leader, blamed him, took his prize, as if he were the ruling party MP. The situation is a little bit more than that, so we need to discuss the headlines beyond political judgment here. Dear friends, another point is the practice of arrested lawmakers. Now, let's put aside the fact that the MP is a member of parliament, so there's a positive discrimination... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I will.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0061par0314	Please complete.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0060par0315	... Again, those who understand a little criminal law know that if a citizen does not have a criminal record and there is no crime committed against a direct person, he will not face a prison sentence of a year or three months in the face of such misdemeanor offenses, even if he is faced with such a prison sentence, he will surely be suspended, so he will not be sentenced to a year or three months in prison without delay. It is an insult to the will of an open nation, if any member of the party, if he uses a statement such as "Padişah" in the palace. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, finally, I'm going to tell you that when we look at your established practices here, we see that 70-80 percent of lawmakers have changed. When you have the opportunity, strive with us to make the judiciary independent. Then, I assure you, so will you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0062par0320	On behalf of the groups, the final word belongs to Aydın MP Abdurrahman Öz (incumbent on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group). Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0063par0323	Mr. President, I make a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group following the group's proposal given by the HDP Group. I salute the General Assembly. I also congratulate you on the Regaip Kandili, which we will understand today evening. In the HDP group proposal, I observed that the proceedings related to the trial of arrested MPs and journalists have been demanded by the Constitutional Court of the 98th and the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, under Article 104 and 105. In Article 2 of the Constitution, the rule of law is clearly stated when the state's qualifications are counted. There is no question that the basis of the rule of law is a separation of forces. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President and the Prime Minister, and independent courts use the power of the judiciary. A parliamentary investigation is called for incumbent on the use of judicial authority and the mandate of independent courts. As a legislature, Turkey is not in the jurisdiction and mandate of the Grand National Assembly. Article 138 of the Constitution states that the authorities are independent. Judges judge according to their conscience in accordance with the Constitution, law, and law. No body, authority, authority or person can give orders or orders to the courts and judges in the use of the jurisdiction, not to send them to the general, not to advise them and to advise them. There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the legislature about a pending case, no discussion, or any statement. Judicial activities are conducted by independent courts and judges; they are subject to special and general regulations concerning punishment and punishment. One of the decisions made by judicial activities is that one side of the case is not satisfied, which is the normal consequence of life. Those who are unhappy with the verdict have a constitutional right to appeal or appeal the court's decision to those who claim that the verdict is against the Constitution, against the law. If there are allegations of some violations of rights during the trial, it is also entitled to appeal to the Constitutional Court and to the European Court of Human Rights. These rights are adopted within the framework of legal legislation, in accordance with procedure. In the end, decisions made by independent courts are finalized after the legal examination and decisive decisions are binding. Since the group's proposal clearly contradicts the Constitution's 138th Article, I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0064par0331	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Thursday 22/3/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. The meeting of the National Assembly of Turkey's Assembly (10/160) main parliamentary research proposal (10/160) was proposed during the General Assembly's meeting Thursday (January 22/3/2018) Thursday (Today) for the study of measures to ensure freedom of the press. The first word on the proposal belongs to İstanbul MP Barış Yfriend (Islam) as owner of the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you are, my friend.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0065par0345	Dear friends and valued lawmakers, the AKP government is blocking and blocking all areas where opposition can breathe and express itself before the 2019 elections. A severe censorship is being imposed in Turkey so that not a single voice can be heard. One of the examples of this censorship took place last night, and as you can see now, broadcast organs such as Netflix, BluTV, puhutv, Twitter, YouTube have been put under the supervision of the Radio and Television Supreme Board. Now the Radio and Television Oversight will be able to impose punishments on these areas on the grounds that it has been broadcast immorally. You're looking at the censorship cage, where Twitter's bird, which is identified with freedom, is now inside the cage of RTÜK. Last night, you didn't just bring heavy censorship into the Internet, you took steps to censor social media as you wanted, you caged the freedoms with this law. But that's not enough for you. The day you put the Internet in a cage, you bought Aydın Doğan's newspapers and televisions to the Litören Group, which is close to you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0066par0348	If he hadn't sold it.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0065par0349	...and thus 70 per cent of the media fell into the hands of one person, known for its proximity to AKP power.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0067par0350	To whom did you sell the Canalturk?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0065par0351	...and thus the percentage of broadcast organs supporting the AKP has reached 90 per cent. You can't talk about freedom here, it's called the single man's one-voiced order. The unilateralization you've created in the press will eliminate the public's right to information and the right to free public opinion. The distribution network of newspapers has been seized by one party, which will prevent opposition publications from reaching the public. Because of this media environment you've created, thousands more journalists will be out of work. Singularization is the death of news and truth. You have committed a murder, gentlemen, which gives you the fear of losing power, and because of your fear of losing power, you will be remembered in front of history, and you will be condemned as criminals. We know why you committed these crimes. You're throwing judges and prosecutors off the party staff. You're pulling jet strings on the D.A.'s daughter. You censor media organs and drown them so judges and prosecutors don't have to know that they're AKP people. Let's give a call to the Competitive Association: The Competition Foundation must immediately stop the sale of these broadcast organs that have been taken from Aydın Doğan, and given to the Demirören Group because this is the removal of public information and competition. The AKP has not only eliminated competition but also justice. That's why I want to address them today in the words of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror. Justice is the foundation of property. We say, you don't understand, perhaps the words of the Conqueror will become an earring in your ears. See what Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror said to you: If you kill the mind, morality dies; when the people die, the nation is divided. The day you buy the woman, justice dies, and the day you kill justice, the state dies. You, friends, kill both justice and the state. You select judges and prosecutors from the mayors of the county and districts, from the women's arms, from the women's arms, to create a order you can't judge, but I assure you that whatever you do, the pressure and the dictatorship you're building will never be victorious from your point of view and will never survive. Sooner or later, with our struggle, justice will be restored in Turkey, and when justice is restored, you will have the chance to be judged fairly. Because your crimes in front of history now show that you deserve to be judged. Taking the media from Aydın Doğan's hand alone and transferring it to another company is reason enough for you to be tried. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0068par0358	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0069par0359	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0068par0360	In his speech, the preacher stated that we had created a pressure field for them, and that we, and we, have made statements of our power and our group, condemning and binding. I want to answer according to 69.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0069par0361	Here, I promise not to tease you for two minutes. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0068par0364	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in fact, it sounds like a speech defending freedoms, but we've all heard a very important, dictated speech of his own, dictated and authoritarianly. I'd like to make it very clear that I'm listening because your instructions here are, like, a forced purchase... the owner of the property is obvious, if he wanted to, he wouldn't have sold it, it's a fact.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0070par0365	You believe that, don't you? You don't believe that!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0068par0366	And then, if you want to see a complete authority, you need to look at the content of the last speech sentences. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) He was in a complete recession with the message he wanted to deliver, just like in the past tense...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0071par0367	I'd like to invite the Competition Agency on duty.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0068par0368	I've been in this Parliament for about 11 years, since 2007, and I've worked for the Justice Commission, and every time we take important steps on the judiciary...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0072par0369	He's neutral and independent now? Independent neutral or neutral independent? I mean, which one is it?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0068par0370	...so that no one can have a backyard... in the past period of the Republican People's Party... in the past, there are, there are many conversations here, but if we go back, we've said that on every platform, especially on every platform, this, for all of us, we need it, we never argue against it, but if you're looking for politicalisation of the judiciary, you'll look back. The Minister of Justice of the period, Moğultay, has a very clear confession. What did he say then? Where was I going to get it? Of course, I was going to assign these staffs. Driver's license and merit...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0073par0371	You want to do the same thing?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0072par0372	You want to do worse.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0068par0373	Nothing, you'll pass! Today, Turkey is fighting a multi-directional battle, unfortunately fighting many institutions and organizations, and an organization that has infiltrated the judiciary. And then you're gonna come up here, because the judge, the press, they don't breathe.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0073par0374	You're going to get justice by making AKP mayors a judge? You've made AKP mayors judges, prosecutors.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0068par0375	Why are you ignoring a fact? Turkey has been fighting terrorism in its geography for 40 years, and today it has struggled with many. Look, if you're looking for an example about social media, how Britain -- when it's not a country that's fighting terrorism in England -- is implementing anti-terrorism laws, bringing constraints to social media.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0073par0377	You're defending the ban, Mr. President. Don't defend the ban, defend the freedoms.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0074par0378	You're defending the insult.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0073par0379	Defend the freedoms
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0075par0380	Where's the IRA? There's no IRA in England, is there?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0076par0381	...congratulating the terrorist, the Prime Minister, the President, any dictating statements...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0077par0382	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0076par0383	You're looking at Europe in France, in England, in the Netherlands, in Austria, in Germany, in Spain, in Sweden, in social media, in terrorism, in any case, it can't be done, it can't be done on the floor, and its laws won't allow it. Such are the arrangements that are made today.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0077par0385	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0078par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0077par0387	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0078par0388	Directly, he used the name of a minister who had served at the Republican People's Party. I want your word on that.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0077par0389	I'm sorry, whose name did he name? I missed it.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0078par0390	He must have mentioned the mogultai, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0079par0391	Mehmet Moğultay.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0080par0392	I mentioned the late Justice Minister Mehmet Moğultay.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0081par0393	Please, let's not challenge a new taunt.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0082par0395	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I really want everyone to hear, and I told you today at the press conference. Now we make arrangements for the fair trial of all, they say. In 2011, the AKP government, along with the Fetullahist terrorist organisation, would have to serve for at least five years, after its graduation, in order to replace the judges and prosecutors' positions. The principle of the Fetullahist terrorist organization had opened the way for the appointment of its judges and prosecutors. Those judges and prosecutors later held the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Turkey in the Balyoz and Ergenekon cases for six years with the secret testimony of a Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) militant, Şemdin Sakık. And now you're using the same clause to appoint the daughter of your Attorney General without completing the five-year term. Either you're not blushing when you're lying or you think these people are naive. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0083par0402	Congressmans, Mr. Sona Aliyeva, a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Azerbaijan, has visited our Parliament with our MPs, Cemil Yaman and Sami Çakır. We welcome you to them. [[Applause]] Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0084par0405	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0083par0406	Yes, Mr. Incescuz, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0084par0407	Mr. President, just for the record. In his speech, the deputy leader of the group said that during that period, you made your appointments. There was an organization like that, but are they intentional, intentional? After this organization has been compromised, the important thing is to fight decisively, decisively and...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0085par0409	Not when he gets into a fight about splitting shit, not when he's exposed!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0084par0410	It is our responsibility as well as the responsibility of everyone in this Parliament to not make any statements that will interfere with this struggle.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0085par0411	You attacked Kamer Youngman in those days!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0086par0412	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0087par0413	Mr. President, just for the record. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, president of the AKP, has a statement saying that if you act like this before the Fetullahist terrorist organization is declared a terrorist organization, I will declare you a terrorist organization. I request that Mr. Deputy Leader of the Group put it in front of him and put it in front of him once more.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0086par0418	Members of parliament, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu will speak on the proposal. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0088par0421	Mr. President, I'd like to start by saying hello to all the arrested journalists who are fighting for the free press, especially my dear friend, Akin Atalay. First of all, I'd like to remind you of something that EC PARTY President Erdogan said yesterday. He has confessed to the situation Turkey is in, the cause of all the troubles we face. He said that for the 2019 elections, God forbid, we have to see that Turkey, not us, is the one who loses in any setback. It's not about politics, it's about the back of our state and nation. He said that if he loses, Turkey will lose. If you call these words a threat, I won't kill them if I'm not there. Is that what you call it, but it's gone too far. In light of that, there was no more suffering, no more persecution, and a new step was taken yesterday, even when the country was at war. The Doğan Media Group was sold on the phone to Demirören, which we remember from Erdogan, who asked for forgiveness with tears, just as he was on his way to the election. Could it be a coincidence? No. Erdogan invested in a major election; he took another huge step, completely obscured the facts on the way to the election, with the voice of the opposition being completely briefed. After one state, one nation, the other, you're calling it "the only media." Aydın Doğan and his family have been under pressure for a long time. Now, they may have saved themselves with the sale, but what about the press workers who work for the Doğan Group, whether there'll be layoffs, we'll be followers of that too. The Doğan Group was the perfect publisher? No. Was he neutral? No. He had a lot to criticize. We're talking about a publishing group where there are dozens of talks about HDP people. But we see that there is no tolerance for power, not even a tiny opposition sound, which is what really happens. That's why they gave the Doğan Group to Demirören. Because Demirören is Erdogan himself. Erdogan took the Dogan Group, not Demirören, and the CEO of Demirören. The goal is to go to the election with one voice in the media because there's weakness. No self-reliance political power really stoops to these paths. This isn't the first time we've been through this. The primary reflex of fascism is to silence the press. There are many examples in the world and in Turkey. There's no need to go any further. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mayor, I'm gonna need some time.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0089par0429	Please complete.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0088par0430	When we look at the media organs that were turned off after July 15th, the IMC TV, plus TV, the Voice of Life, these are... but you know what? There's always been a way, and the journalists have found a way, and the truth has found a way, so it's not that easy to silence it. We'll open new channels again, print new magazines, go door-to-door if we have to. All the opponents of Turkey, all those who favour democracy, peace, will come together, and no one's power will be enough to keep our voices down or to stir the country. One last thing I'd like to say. The former ECHR judge Reza Turmen says two decisions -- Mehmet Altan, Şahin Alpay -- are important in terms of the detention regime and freedom of expression, and the Constitution must be obeyed according to 90. The principles of such decisions must be taken into account by judges. Do you hear me, judges? Release our friends, we say. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0090par0435	Mr. President, I'd like to say something for the record.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0091par0436	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0090par0437	If he's looking for an example of fascism, if you're going to the June 7th to 8th elections, if you don't vote with the blood flowing through this faucet, blood will flow. Billboards and so on and so on, what kind of threat to the east and southeast... if we're looking for fascism, we need to look at this. If we're looking for fascism, we need to look at the Kurds that don't support the terrorist organization and what's being implemented in that region and today's Afrin. Fascism needs to be searched from here, democracy from Parliament, far away from Parliament.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0092par0439	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of bullying because he has publicly, forced our party to vote and to accuse us of a party that has come to Parliament with these practices.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0091par0440	Mr. Kerestecioglu, I promise you, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0093par0441	Don't pick on me.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0092par0442	Not in my place, no, I'm talking about teasing, Mr. President. It's a lot of teasing. Didn't you just give it to Mrs. İlknur?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0091par0443	I'm talking about picking on Mrs. Ilknur...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0094par0444	I made a promise to put it on the record.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0092par0445	No, not this one, when you gave it to me before. Mr. President, look, your perceptions...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0095par0447	Make a statement.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0092par0448	No, why would I explain? As a group of vice presidents, if there's bullying, I have to promise my party.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0095par0449	Okay, here you go. Let's not afford another tease, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0092par0453	So to avoid any new bullying... is to avoid a new taunt, when the same words do not repeat like rice.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0096par0454	Like you did.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0092par0455	Now it's printed, it's made like this, it's made like this... look at it, for God's sake, we're still telling you, let's go to the election right now. You'll see, you don't know how to rule except the trustees, you don't know the will of the people. So we came here with 80 percent, 90 percent of the vote, so we didn't come here with any kind of pressure. You tried to do that. You tried to do it in the November elections, but it didn't happen, it didn't happen again, it was the will of the people, and we came despite all the pressure. You put a lot of pressure on the referendum. In fact, what you're doing now is proof of what you're going to do. That's what I just gave you. So you've singled out the media, you're trying to turn it into one media. Why? Because there will be no opposition voices, and then there will be a new election, and there will be no suspects. But we say we won't allow it. And for God's sake, do you really know anything other than to say terror, terror, and do you have any other projects?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0097par0457	Can you make a word out of defending terror? You're just defending terror, doing nothing.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0092par0458	You've been exhausted for 15 years. With the same indictments, this press is being charged with indictments of you, that you, that you, that you walk together, that you walk the road.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0097par0459	There is no peace in saying peace, peace.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0092par0460	Selahtin Demirtaş and our arrested MPs, as well as Akin Atalay and Cumhuriyet journalists, are being tried with the same indictments. The judges and prosecutors are inside. Prosecutors are taking their indictments into consideration. Likewise, those young judges decide after that by making phone calls, asking, "What should we do?" I mean, let's just say that you're really something other than terror. That pouch came, it really came. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0098par0464	Whatever decision you're making, you're asking Kandil. You seek the Kandil, and you receive instruction from the Kandil.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0099par0465	Mr. President, another one of our soldiers has been killed in Bitlis. There's a reason for terrorism in this country. One more soldier is a martyr, he's talking!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0100par0466	Terror is always on the agenda.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0101par0467	Mr. President, he can take it from here. You've been exhausted for ten or five years.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0102par0468	Here you go. Let's go this way, face-to-face!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0101par0470	I mean, of course, when you're on this stand, we'd like you to curse terror one day, to see terror. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As you continue to make similar talks, as you repeat the same things, such as raw rice, we will continue to carry out the mandate of our nation's authority as you try to rewind the tape and mock the minds of the people here. Yes, you can ignore it, but Turkey has been fighting the PKK for 40 years.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0103par0473	Your Prime Minister has been appointed a trustee!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0101par0474	I'm talking about it, but I'm afraid it comes from the party of Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0103par0475	The Prime Minister has been appointed trustee, Prime Minister. You've appointed trustees from the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0101par0476	So Ali Sugar, shut up and listen. Learn to listen in accordance with the tone of the House. Here, we see that we are fighting the PKK. Today we are fighting both inside our country and across the border. There was peace in Afrin, the Turkish army entered, the Free Syrian Army entered... with accusations of handmade bombs... that they left behind... our soldiers there, the free Syrian people there, shielding themselves, so that the citizens there might not bleed, the citizens there, the Syrian brothers? After the June 7th election, how will blood flow, as I just showed you? With the threat of digging holes under 15 years of age and above children should go to school, why don't you speak to the terrorist organization in our own home, when our own people go to school in our own district, where their own hospital is being bombed? And then you walk out of here, and you look 80 million people in the eye and you say something other than terror. Yes, we're going to say something other than terror; when terror, terrorism, and the last terrorist were destroyed, when Turkey got rid of the terror threat in this geography, we're going to continue to say the same thing other than terror. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And don't let the truth slip your mind. We've never given our country people these excuses, and for 15 years, Turkey will continue to change everything in justice, safety, health, transportation, transforming, in the fields of freedom, in the struggle for rights and freedom, in the struggle for democracy.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0104par0482	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0105par0483	I want you to promise me the bullying again. You didn't say anything about terrorism once. lt's like we support terrorism, like we support terrorism.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0101par0485	Let him say I'm not. Let's give him a round of applause.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0105par0487	Despite a lot of views we disagreed with...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0106par0488	Curse terror.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0105par0489	Not a word has been thrown out of here, Mrs. Firstinur, but if you can't come here, I won't know if you can only speak from there. I'd like to remind you of some of the words that Burhan Lamba, after the elections, after the June 7th elections, if it doesn't happen, there will be chaos. Now, what were those words? I'd like to remind you who was really interfering with the election. Other than that, I just said yesterday's words in my speech. What's he saying, Erdogan? God forbid, we have to see that Turkey will be the one to lose, not us, in case of any setbacks. It's not about politics, it's about the rest of our state and our nation, he says. Yeah, in case a party president gets up and another party comes to power, he might say it's something Turkey will lose, not God himself. Is this democracy? Now that you've come to this point, that's what we really mean when we say freedom of the press. You want nothing to happen, you want no freedom. We list dozens of things to the Minister of Justice, but what does the Ministry of Justice do? The General Directorate of Penalty and Inquisitorships, for example, tries to instruct RTÜK (RTÜK) about a series that has not yet been published, and informs RTÜK (RTÜK). What is it? Here's a series of prisons called the Court, which tells of the torture in prisons, which helps terrorists. That's your understanding of everything, everything is terror for you. What we call terrorism, terrorism, terrorism, is that the problem you've been saying for 40 years is the Kurdish problem, the Kurdish problem is solved by negotiation, but it's solved by peace table, it's solved by mutual dialogue. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0107par0495	Mr. President, just for the record. Turkey does not have a Kurdish issue.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0105par0496	That's what we're here for!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0107par0497	We've all been through this together in the past tense, when guns were supposed to be dropped. Turkey has a terror threat and has a struggle with terror and terrorist lovers, for the record. And this fight will continue until the end.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0105par0499	Mr. President, I'm just saying for the record. I don't think Mrs. Firstnur is following because she just said some things about the S.E.S.O.S. For example, they were looting, and even the President made a statement about it today, and Abraham Kaluk had explanations, and the SSO had their own explanations, and we're investigating them, but let's put it on the record again. Other than that, he said... because the same things are repeated... oh, yes, there's no Kurdish problem.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0108par0502	You can't represent Kurds in that sense.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0105par0503	So if we're still talking about what we used to say 40 years ago in Turkey, then there's nothing left but congratulations.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0109par0504	Yes, dear friends, we all have to make a mutual and sincere stand against terror. It's a problem that's really been draining people's blood for over 40 or 40 years. No matter where he comes from, no matter what terrorist organization he comes from, I think we're all gonna have to put together this friendly stand against all the terrorist organizations. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the last word on the group's proposal belongs to İstanbul MP Hasan Turan. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0110par0511	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group for the group's proposal for the CHP Group's freedom of press. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Congratulations to Regaip Kandili, the harbinger of the three months we are now in, and I wish it to be a blessing for all the oppressed nations of the world, especially the Islamic world. I listened carefully to both the group proposal and the friends who talked about the group proposal. In particular, one has to stress that it's as if there's a power over freedom that's willing to put an obstacle in the way of thought, as if there's a thought. I'd like to express that I have met with regret. Sir, in this country, there is freedom of thought, freedom of faith, freedom of life, freedom to express what you believe, as there is the right and right of all these people to use these things, as well as the duty of all of us to obey the laws, the framework that the law has drawn. No matter what profession you're in, you're equal in the eyes of the law and you're responsible for the law. We all have to obey the law. We're at the point of knowing that the limit of freedom is the beginning of someone else's freedom. I don't know if there's a concept called unlimited freedom in other geographys of the world, but I do know this: I know that journalists in Russia or America who threaten the safety of their country are unconscious in the streets of London, or that they have to flee America, their own country, and take refuge in other countries. But, for some reason, in our country, it has become the tool of terrorist organizations, and every thought that endangers the security of the country is being defended in the form of freedom of its broadcast organs -- the institutions that it claims to defend the thought -- within a nail. Dear friends, this country concerns all of us, the safety of our country. I don't suppose any of our deputies here would want our country's security compromised and threatened. And then there's some international journalism evaluation organizations, which are a celebration of homes. These organisations, for some reason, are constantly giving notes to our country, like other evaluation organisations. But he never looks at the situation in his own country when he's making notes. He's always giving notes and points to countries like us. You know, you're looking at the economy, and the organization has dropped our points. So these organizations, which are used as an instrument of imperial policy, as a means of neutralizing other countries... the World Reporting Organization, have arrived, we have journalistic infringements in our country... Well, see if there are such violations in Europe, in America, and in other geography of the world.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0111par0518	Please complete...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0110par0519	I express my feelings at the point of rejection of this motion and salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0111par0522	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0110par0523	Of course, the speaker, the statement of the appointment of judges and prosecutors from the AK PARTI district and district agencies used by our friend, who has the motion, should not throw stones at other people's windows. In the past tense, the governors of the mayors...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0112par0524	One party, one party...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0110par0525	... and that only 108 newspapers have been shut down in their time -- the daily of the Republic -- today's so-called self-defense newspaper -- Vatan, Tan, Tasvir-i -- are the ones who have been known to be on their side, especially to be on their side, and that those who have no right to any form of thought and freedom of life have brought us to great reforms in Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0113par0528	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0114par0529	Sir, I don't know if I need to list the grounds for bullying, but...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0113par0530	One of them...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0114par0531	I don't know if I need to list the grounds of bullying, but he's openly and publicly taunting the Republican People's Party and its owner, so we'd like a word, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0113par0532	Here you are, my friend.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0115par0535	When the speaker spoke about our proposal, he drew a very pink picture, which apparently begins every day by reading His Majesty's pink newspaper, which the court produced. Of course, when he reads His Majesty's newspapers and talks about threatening journalists, he also says: "Look, in America, journalists in England are unconscious in the middle of the street, is that what you want to happen to you?" 165 journalists are currently in prison because of his comment. The AKP has literally become a sword for journalists. Sir, the papers have been closed in the past. And because the papers have been closed in the past, now you have the right to close the paper? Just say it. AKP executives don't make judges. 116 judges and prosecutors were appointed just the other day, which only I could identify. Your congressional candidates, your mayoral candidates, are now in their seats. With what? With a 40-second interview. Who did this 40-second interview? Basri Bonder, Deputy Attorney General of the Justice Department. You wanted to send the gentleman to the ECHR to reward him, the European Court of Human Rights said that the legal collection of Basri Bağcı is insufficient, and he didn't even call for an interview. What did you do for him? You immediately activated a reward mechanism, and you said: "You have made hundreds of AKP people a judge in 40 seconds, so that's the Supreme Court membership of the prize." That's your understanding. Don't tell me what happened during the single party, and don't paint a picture in Turkey like it's all so bright right now, you're actually sinking as you speak. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0116par0540	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0117par0541	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0116par0542	Mr. President accused me of reading His Majesty's pink newspapers.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0117par0543	- Here you go, here you go. Guys, please, there's got to be a limit. Now that everyone's going to come clean, that doesn't mean bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0118par0547	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a speech again by deflecting what I said while our friend defends his own thesis. In London, and other places, when I give examples of the punishments of journalists, Western evaluation organizations take an example of how bistandard organizations involved in this profession and bring them in and threaten journalists here, it's a waste of reason. I think it's odd that the results were taken from this place. A man can't take a test if he's forced to. Dear friends, property as much as the right to believe and think is a constitutional right. How is it illegal for a newspaper group to come and present the publication group by someone else and to bring it here in a political packaging and to accuse the power of this; again, to ensure that social media and internet publishing is under the supervision of a constitutional institution, the control body? Today, in our country, every kind, every thought, every opinion comes out of a publishing organ.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0119par0549	It's inside, it's all inside.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0118par0550	So I've been doing journalism, and if you go to the relevant units, and you apply for permission for the newspaper, you'll be on the air in no time. You show your opinions as much as you can, and you put your thoughts out there. However, we see today that our country is facing a multi-directed imperialist siege, and we see that it has encountered efforts and campaigns that would undermine the security of our country in the cover of journalism. Especially after July 15th, when their campaigns are growing, we don't miss it at all. That's what I'm saying. It's not right that those arrested by terrorist organizations should be presented as journalists. Was he detained for journalism or was he detained for another crime?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0120par0551	That was the way Zechariah spoke, and that was the way Zachariah Oz spoke.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0119par0552	You've taken him into custody with indictments.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0121par0553	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have it read and processed, and I will submit to your votes: The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at a meeting held Thursday (22/3/2018). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. İz Kerestecioğlu Demir Erhan Usta Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The General Assembly's 27/3/2018 merger of Down's syndrome in our country on Tuesday (May 27/3/2018) was given 10/684, 10/2594, 10/2645, 10/2646, 10/2646 and 10/2691 main parliamentary research proposals for the meeting of the Council's proposals for the meeting of medical and aromatic plants to be carried out in an ecological balance of production, to be used, to be used in line with health, and to establish solution proposals for the development of their exports, and to continue the proposals of the Council of Medical and Aromatic Plants until Thursday (July 22/2626264), 218). I'd like to submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will begin talks with the First Amendment to the Law and Law Laws Act, which is ranked in 1st place, and the Plan and Budget Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 535 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, according to the decision made. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On the whole bill, the first word for the group belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0122par0586	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, I have been promised to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the General Bill of the Law on the Amendment to Article 535 of Value Tax Act and Some Laws and Legislatures. I hereby salute the grand jury. Mr. President, before I move on to my views on the bill, as usual, I'd like to begin by expressing the benefit of looking at the circumstances in which we discussed this bill today. The current account deficit reached 51 billion dollars in January. Expectations that inflation would decline have weakened with the latest data, I'm afraid. Out there, negative expectations of Turkey's economy -- even for our purposes -- have been re-furbished. They broke Turkey's credit rating, the market started to fluctuate, the dollar tested 3.95, Turkey's CDS (CNS) increased by 20 per cent in ten days, up from 167 to 200. There's been some release in the bond markets, the Fed has increased interest rates, and funding costs are expected to rise in the coming period. There are some files that need to be settled in the coming days. Under the circumstances, the treasure struggles to replace cash operations, while continuing to increase incentives, current expenditures, such bills. Mr. President, lawmakers, if the current deficit continues to increase, inflation cannot be pulled down as requested, and the budget balance is continued with measures to worsen, the economy will continue to be fragile and threatening in the economy as long as growth is not claimed by its rightful owners. Unfortunately, mobilising the economy with housing projects and infrastructure investment projects isn't enough, as well as what needs to be done with the economy. Mr. President, lawmakers, we believe that this bill for the VAT system, which we find extremely important and is needed for reform, will respond to certain needs of businesses, but it is not a VAT reform bill that we understand and expect, unfortunately. As a matter of fact, the Minister didn't say "reform." He said "reform." He said "reform." The VAT is, in effect, a system used by more than 150 countries around the world today, but VAT is an important instrument with both production and consumption and income, which operates not only in the economy but in the economy as an automatic stabilizer, which penetrates all capillaries of the economy. As much as VAT has a fiscal purpose, they have a purpose to control the demand, to regulate and manipulate the resource distribution, to promote auto control mechanisms, to promote exports and investments, to ensure fair distribution of tax burden, to improve revenue distribution, to increase savings and investments, but it is not possible for all of them to be considered as targets at the same time. We did an expert thesis on planning in '83, before this law was implemented, before it was implemented, about what the financing impact could be during the Fifth Plan period. At that time, we said that the 5th Plan period could raise a tax amount of about 4.6 per cent of the national income, that with the tax coming in, we would lose as much as 2.6 per cent of the national income, as a matter of fact, there would be a positive difference of around 2 per cent, but it would increase by 6.1 per cent year. We said that this would also be 1 for national income, which was important, and that was about what happened. Now, when we look at all of this, since it was implemented in 1985, there has been no radical change in the system that can essentially be considered legal reform. In terms of VAT rates, Turkey is among the lowest proportions of VAT rates in 28 EU countries. The problem with the VAT system in our country is not the rates, but the exceptions and discounts that are brought in specifically for specific activities and sectors and are constantly expanded. There are 1 per cent of pens in VAT, such as yachts, cotras, boats and cruise ships, net area housing deliveries, secondhand vehicles, newspapers and magazines, and the sale of these publications electronically. In response to this, the VAT is 18 percent in many products that the public consumes and buys. The farmer's got a VAT and an OTV in his diesel. Many products involved in SVV are taxed, as automotive, fuel, and cigarettes include VAT matrix. In these products, the tax burden of the world is in Turkey. The bill, unfortunately, lacks regulations to correct these distortions in the VAT system, to restore a fair structure. The process of making laws must be based on the responsibility of resolving troubled areas. It is natural for the administration to consider various parts of its needs, but the hierarchy of these needs must be determined very accurately. As the bill is fundamentally missing in public, it is expected that there will be an arrangement to correct the more fair and effective structure of the VAT system, while certain segments will benefit from extradition, exceptions and additional ease. There is also an extension of the scope of exceptions that disrupt the functioning and justice of the existing system, including some areas of activity. The bill is said to be a continuation of reforms aimed at promoting investment, production and exports. The VAT is intended to be transformed into a structure that does not create a financial burden on businesses. It is also said that facilitating the compliance obligations of small businesses, reducing processing costs, providing practical ease, and contributing to economic development. In this way, the bill appears to have more of a view from the business window. Some reliefs have also been sought by reducing the need for cash and financing from business obligations from VAT obligations, with changes to the return and exception system. The cost of the bill is expected to reach 9.9 billion euros by 2020, from information submitted to the Commission. As you know, there was a $65.9 billion deficit in the budget in 2018, but we can say that in the last two weeks, the cost of the budget was 17 billion dollars. When added, the end-of-the-year budget deficit could exceed 90 billion euros, while the domestic product would increase to 2.5 per cent instead of 1.9%. Mr. President, Congressmans, the bill sums up the following regulations. It's being made available to extradite VAT. From the beginning of 2019, it will be returned within six months of the demand for the value-of-addition tax, which has not been subject to discount in 12 months. As of the end of 2018, it is also envisioned to include the return or expense of VAT (KDV) on the basis of calendars and foundations set by the Finance Ministry. The group consolidation of the VAT is allowed. Now, it's important, depending on the preference in this framework, that the Finance Ministry is authorized to establish the group's VAT obligations, along with those who have at least 50 per cent of the company's taxpayers. Mr. Secretary, this is important, you're taking this authority, but when we look at companies, even if they're group companies, to monitor the currency debt, we don't really understand what it means to keep track of it here in the company, here in the group, here in the company, and here in the group, I think it's important to focus on it. The process of substandard partnerships turning into capital companies is an exception from the VAT. The VAT discount extends the calendar year limit. Spectacular matrix for second-hand transport and immovable delivery. A tax reduction is allowed to be calculated for worthless gains. Handouts to duty-free stores are exceptional from VAT and OTV. Surrenders related to some donated facilities are exceptional from VAT. Health care for foreigners is an exception from the VAT. The payment period for small taxpayers is extended, with the opportunity to extend until the end of the second month, following the declaration. The game produced in techno parks is an exception to the delivery of software from the VAT, but I would like to point out that there is no distinction regarding harmful software and games. You're also bringing in arrangements to ease debt for state-owned university hospitals with the clauses added to the bill. Affirmative, we find this arrangement to be accurate, but it's not enough progress and regulation to solve problems involving university hospitals. After 2002, a new cycle began with radical changes in health and health -- the USSR; the BUG-KUR and Retirement Chest gathering under a single umbrella, and everyone getting services from both state and university hospitals -- a accurate approach, but a private sector experience from the World Bank began to grow in health in many private health companies, and a period of uncontrollable growth took place in the sector. As contributions to university hospitals were removed, foundation universities were encouraged. We mentioned earlier that there were errors in the health system, that university hospitals had reached the point of bankruptcy, and that in our various articles outside, there were talks in the Parliament. You'll also have to apply an emergency precaution package for university hospitals, and we'll see that that won't be enough next semester. First of all, it should be that the faculty who left the university should be turned back, and they need to be provided with these opportunities. In this context, it is necessary to consider the reconstruction of a reasonable system of differences that used to occur. On the other hand, the government must provide additional incentives for both research and assistant training. Here's one particular thing I'd like to express, Mr. Secretary, is that we're on our way to allocate more resources to the housing sector. The difference between a building permit and a building permit is that since the end of 2002, if you think about about 3 million by the end of 2017, this is a problem area if you think about 40 percent of it in about 3 major cities. In fact, he began to make arrangements in this sector once every two years, every three years, six months, then three months, then two months, then one month a month. And here we need to study this sector very carefully, and when we need to edit it, you're trying to reduce costs, maybe faster in this sector, but I want to say that you're running fast forward, there are measures to run towards trouble. Now, there's a process of taxing that comes up in this bill. And even though we've studied this in England, we've seen this. Even before it's applied, I'd like to say to you, as a friend of yours, who wrote a thesis on this, what's the point of taking Turkey back 35 years ago? You have to say it as a sign. The exceptions don't go away. Now, I'd like to express myself as someone who's particularly interested in getting VAT from strangers, especially in the health sector. Here, my friends, I insist that this place should be taxed, that the industry is already cheap, that foreign people have a choice, but if you do it temporarily, I think it should be arranged in the future. Now, I would like to express that maybe these things can happen in terms of direction to Turkey, but I would like to review recent developments in this dwelling. Another thing is, what did you give us digitally -- in terms of what income groups or individuals -- that these VATs are going to buy? You gave me the money, you gave me the firm numbers. Of course, I think it's a good idea to take a very good look at it here, because when we look at it from here, what do I want to do where, who, how it's piling up, what it's going to be useful and important to determine the measures ahead? I'd like to rephrase. Now, Mr. President, lawmakers, to put it roughly again, the bill brings in some new regulations in the functioning of the VAT system, some needed provisions, not to make any changes in VAT rates, not to attract certain unfair exceptions and reductions in the existing system -- as well as the lack of tax justice, domestic input use in the economy, added value production, the fact that large piles are not being crushed under tax burdens, tax tax evasion -- the fact that there is no TV2. I'd like to rephrase that the bill will be more effective at the point of meeting the country's needs, given the consideration of the issues we have expressed above. I salute the High Council with all the best wishes. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0123par0615	Thank you. Congressmans, we have learned today that three of our soldiers were killed in the explosion of an improvised explosive device in Afrin. We ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. I'm praying to all of your relatives for patience, and I would like to say once again that we will continue our fight against terrorism decisively until the end. Now, the second word on behalf of the group belongs to İstanbul MP Garo Paylan, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0625	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute everyone here. Dear friends, the AKP government has been trying to improve the investment climate since Turkey has given up running democracy. Look, I'm telling you in quotes, ever since we got off the path of democracy, friends, we've been trying to improve the investment climate for two and a half years. The Plan and Budget Commission received about 20 bags. Each bag is heavy, weighing in sacks, 90 substances, 100 substances, 150 substances, 80 bags of matter. There's no quality of living. But look, 20 bags go by, 1,000 points go by, the investment climate doesn't improve. Why? Because the investor doesn't trust Turkey, sees that there is no law state, and therefore wants more. Look, three years ago, why didn't we have to give these incentives? We didn't have to give them away when there was a peace process. The investor was coming, and he could say, "Yes, this is a country that is on the road to democracy." And he said, "This is a state of law. When I'm in a jam, I go to court, I call my rights." And he was investing without these incentives. Since we've been out of the way of democracy, friends, investors' reputations -- their number is very few -- are going to the government's door. They say we're stuck. The present ones say, "We're stuck. What are we going to do? What you didn't think of until then -- look, think, it's a 35-year-old issue of VAT -- comes to mind about VAT returns. Give us the VAT returns so we can spin the wheel because the mill ran out of water, says the investors. The workers' mill is out of water, you have to put water in the mill. Look, in 2017, the mill ran out of water. He's sick, friends, our economy's sick, so let's get back on the path of democracy, and that's where the solution is. No, I'm going to continue the regime of employment, the regime of oppression; I'm going to give money to the market, I'm going to give money to the market. Credit Guaranteed removed the Fund from the hat, distributed 250 billion liras, creating a cortisone effect on the market. If you give the patient cortisone, the patient will feel a little better. For a while, the wheels of our economy turned, and the mill was flooded because of last year. What happened? It's been a year, yes, when I watered the market, the mill, the wheels turned, some economy grew, but who grew up, my friends, who grew up? A group of allies grew up. There's nothing in the pocket of the minimum wager; our business is not going well. He says, "The farmer is a victim, but he's grown some of his allies, he's raised his profits. Some of the financiers, some of the co-builders, they raised their profits, friends, other than that, there's no growth. Now, a year later, the cortisone effect ended, and the mill needs water to turn the wheels again. What happened? He went to the Finance Minister, Mr. Finance Minister, you gave him the Credit Guarantee Fund last year, but now that it's over, you can't give him more because the banks are maxed out. What are we gonna do? We've got VATs, give them back to us... Now, we're making this arrangement, folks. Investors are getting $160 billion of VAT from the government, and now they're going to return it. But look, how do you explain this to the people of Turkey, to the people of Turkey? The great news is, we're reforming at VAT. And 81 million people think: "Man, I pay VAT every day, I put gas in my car, I pay VAT. I go to the market, 8 percent of every transaction I make, 18 percent VAT. With VAT everything, because I pay this VAT because VAT is a consumption tax. The citizen says: "I think the government will give a discount in this VAT. Because 81 million citizens think about it because we are reforming the Prime Minister in Müjde, VAT. What does he think about when he says, citizen? The Minister of Finance is coming out. He says we're reforming at the VAT. The citizen says something will come to me. Look, guys, look at the Plan and Budget Commission reports, our Finance Minister has given us the list. I told you, this bag concerns 1 percent. Look, it's not about 81 million, it's about 1 percent, it's about the rich. According to the Finance Minister's list, it's not one per cent -- I said an optimistic number -- it's one in a thousand interest, my friends. 70-80,000 VAT creditors will receive this from the government. So there's no good news for the citizen. The Finance Minister collects 70 per cent of his taxes from indirect taxes -- from VAT, from STV, and by the way, the builders, investors -- now, friends who will be extradited from those taxes as VAT returns to one per thousandth of the community. Yeah, well, a state can, of course, pay the employers it's going to get, but it can take such measures, but when our budget balances are shaken, it has to tell our people, our citizens, the nation's representatives how to finance this when we're making these payments. Now, the Finance Minister is going to pay 160 billion liras, it's going to upset the budget balances, but he didn't say anything to the Commission about how he's going to finance it when he's making this payment. He said, "Where does God's blessing come from, my friends?" Look, you're taxing a bunch of investors, a few thousand people from 81 million when you pay those VATs. So when the indirect taxes are 70 percent, you collect them from the VAT, collect them from consumption, and give them to the investor, you get taxes from large sections, and you give them to 1/1,000. That way, large areas become poorer, one in a thousand richer, and the mill's water is always flowing into a section of the side and the financier. Guys, we need to drain this mill wide open. Yes, the employer is in trouble, but there's nothing wrong with them, but it's in the wide range. Now, if we pour the water of this mill into large areas, our workers, our tradesmen, our farmers, then the wheel of the mill will turn on its own. Friends, if we come and break the wheel of wealth injustice, then the wheels of the mill will spin. If we make our country a land of peace and peace, run democratic rules, rule of law, then the wheels of the mill spin on its own. But if you don't do this, as in all totalitarian regimes, you feed, you fatten them up, and the broad sections are poverty-threatening, and what you're going to give them is that there's a great threat, we need to fight, we need to get weapons, we need to establish a regime, we need to silence the media. You and the media have already surrendered with the sale of the Dogan Media Group. The country is under threat. He says, "The guns, the F-400s, the F-35s."
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0125par0634	S-400.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0635	...to the S-400, to all these weapons, and what happens, my friends? You're short on bread, poor people's bread, poor people's bread, you give it to the allies, you give it to the gun lobby, you guys.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0125par0636	They're giving it to the terrorist organization for free, so we have to get it.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0637	We need to break this wheel. We need to run our country through democracy again, so we can all have vaccines, jobs, peace, friends. Dear friends, look, the Minister of Finance is going to give this money to 1 in a thousand, you know, 1 in a thousand. Well, how are you going to finance it, Mr. Finance Minister? We'll see. I'm saying, pal, you've been saying for years that we're going to bring income tax reform. Why do we want income tax reform? To raise taxes directly, to get income and fortune-sensitive taxation, to get more taxes from the rich and to reflect them in large areas. Did he bring such reform, Minister of Finance? No. There's no income tax reform. What's he gonna do? Friends from large sections who will collect taxes, indirect taxes, and channel them into a small minority. Unfortunately, that's the rule of totalitarian regimes, and that's what Putin's role models are doing, enriching a handful of oligarchs -- his own ally -- and trying to put the rest of them to sleep with silenced media in the words of the great Russia -- in the language of strong Russia. The AKP is also in the way of the role model Putin. Unfortunately, it does not tell our people the truth, friends, and steals from his bread and transfers a section to the side. Dear friends, we need to make policies that will relax the wide range. Look, I'll give you some examples of what this bag brings, so it's better understood. For example, with this bag, he says now, Mr. Finance Minister: I won't pay before 2020. He's not telling the truth. Why? Look, there are conglomerates, you know, big cartels. These big cartels are both importers and wholesalers and retailers. You know, when you import, you go and pay the VAT, and when the importer gives it to the wholesaler, he gets the VAT from him, and what he can't get, and what you keep in his warehouse is the VAT. So when the importer and the wholesaler are accumulated, the VATs go to retailer, and the retailer pays the tax he's assigned, but if they're all in one group, the Finance Minister says: I'll give each other the right to keep what these conglomerates have to pay for themselves. If this material passes, the large cartels, importers, wholesalers, retailers will be isolated among themselves, and suddenly they'll be transferred from billions of dollars to large conglomerates. Look, we say don't kill the cartels, don't kill your oligarchs, because it creates unfair competition. We have millions of people who are importers, wholesalers, only retailers, who won't be able to benefit from it, but a few hundred oligarchs, holdings will benefit from it and today the friends who will benefit from it -- we've done our budget -- can do a great deal of damage to our budget in 2018. Let me give you another example, my friends: we're going to start paying gross taxes, Mr. Finance Minister says. It concerns about 1.5 million taxpayers. Now, he gave his example, and he said, "Well, a barber friend will say: I'm going to file a tax on VAT and I'm going to pay my taxes on this frame." And, Dear Minister, there are people who cut their hair for $5 -- you know, my friends, not mine -- there are people who cut their hair for 100 liras, right? There's 100 liras in the rich neighborhoods. Now, I'm going to tax the hair cuter and the hair cuter in the same way for $100. There's no justice here, because there's no justice here, because £100 is $18 and $5 is VAT. I'll set a ratio there, I'll take the VAT. He says. There's no justice here, my friends, and it's an application to increase off-the-books. Look, years ago, this was the way it was, and it was taxed, even by the minimum living standard. In those years, the registration rate was extremely low, my friends. We're dealing with an arrangement that will increase off-books. One more thing: the financial advisors have arrived, Mr. Secretary. It's an arrangement that will reduce the financial advisors' taxpayers, as they've reported. Yes, you've given me an opportunity, a product-based arrangement, and I'll put my notebook on the IRS site... and I'll put in some paperwork, some information like that... and that's an arrangement that will reduce the fiscal advisors' relationship. The financial advisors came, the room reps came, but Mr. Secretary, the complaint calls came. The financial advisors object to this kind of taxation. So... they came from the room...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0126par0644	You don't have a place to sleep.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0645	I object, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0126par0646	You don't have a place to sleep.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0647	But I got the calls.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0126par0648	You supported this the most, you supported the relative tax.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0649	No, it's in the transcripts. No, sir...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0126par0650	And you said, "Bring me a relative tax."
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0651	No... it's a relative tax... but the rates... Mr. Secretary, look...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0126par0652	You said, "We must bring back the tax." Everybody saw it.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0653	Mr. Secretary, it's in the transcripts, don't.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0127par0654	Minister, you will answer when you speak for the government. You should address the General Assembly, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0656	Regarding the property dues, it would be a serious handicap for financial advisors to be given tenfold authority and to be responsible for arranging VAT extradition reports. They expressed concern, Mr. Secretary. Because imagine he filed a $10 billion VAT return report, a financial advisor. Yeah, that CPA probably doesn't have 10,000 liras of power, he's a financial advisor living on a monthly basis. You're saying: you're in charge of the elite. So if you signed under the $10 million report, when there's a problem with that document tomorrow day, I'll make you the same as those huge bosses, and I'll make you the same person responsible. This is unacceptable, my friends. Our financial advisors' room, yes, in that sense, we can handle it. He said. But the calls from the financial advisors, the freelance accountant, are not in that direction. Dear friends, look, there's a very important item. Mr. Minister of Finance, you know, last year, he said: "It's Georgea in question, Hansa zero VAT." If people from abroad are buying homes, there is zero VAT; Ahmet, Mehmet, 18 per cent, you do not have them. Now, in health, a similar substance was brought in. Now, imagine that Ahmet, Mehmet, Ayşe, Garo, and Ohannes went to a health care institution, where they were treated, and you're going to give them 5,000 lira, plus 8 VAT, 400 lira VAT. E, Mr. George, you're not going to give you zero VAT. Is that justice, friends? And why do you apply a tax system that you don't apply to your own citizen to non-cital citizens of the Republic of Turkey? If you're going to do it, do it for everyone; if you're not going to do it, why are you only doing it for strangers? And there's the possibility of abuse. Imagine, guys, you went to a clinic, again, 5,000 lira bills. Yeah, $5,400 for you? But if you were George, write my name down. Write your name on the bill. How will you prove there's no George? So from now on, I'm offering it to all citizens. You know, this may be abuse, but if you guys call yourself George, there's no VAT.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0128par0660	Does he buy from Garo?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0124par0661	Dear friends, there's one other very harmful substance. Look, it's a positive thing, yes, it's something that needs to be supported, but it can be abused. Why? Because look, when a municipality or the Ministry of the Environment gives a specific location -- let's say a thousand housing houses -- it says, "But you're going to build a mosque, a school, a dorm, a children's home in that area." Now, imagine that you're investing a billion dollars, and that's going to cost $100 million. Can you imagine, brother, that I have spent 500 million dollars on school, mosque, yurt. How can you prove this investor and zero VATs? I poured so many cubic metres of concrete into the mosque, I used so much iron. How are you guys going to get ahead of it if he gets the concrete he spent on construction? This is unacceptable. If a person is doing good, let him pay for this VAT, and if you are returning it, return it in a different way. There's an abuse policy going on here, guys. The state-owned university hospitals are in debt of a bleeding wound, friends and billions of dollars in debt. It's a positive arrangement that resets it, but it's not a structural measure. Today the Ministry of Finance will pay these debts, which I say will, but tomorrow these debts will be saved up again. There's a need for structural reform towards university hospitals, folks. That's where science is produced, where doctors are raised. You can't just look at it as a business, it needs to be supported. You can't put the performance in there. Those hospitals are like this because you put the performance in there. A Chapa Hospital, a Hacettepe, a Surgery Paşa; they are now finished, their teachers have been withdrawn, their resources have been reset. From that point of view, you can't save debt just by resetting it. These hospitals need structural reform to reproduce science, to produce quality doctors, friends. We also need to make an adjustment in this respect, and the Minister of Finance has to take into account those who sell it in the future as they pay these debts, because they've charged me 20 liras for $10, and I'm going to get his money in two years. If you pay up today, you need to discount those debts, and I'd like you to pay attention to that. Dear friends, as you can see, the bag is a thousand-to-one bag. There's nothing in this bag that concerns you 100%, my dear citizens. The government will renegotiate a section of its supporters with these VAT returns, friends who will love them. Nothing for you. It's your job to finance those VATs he paid. Look, there's a raise on gas again. Increase of gas, raise of 15 cents, you'll pay. A raise on everything. Inflation has risen in the food you consume. There's a raise on everything. And there's no other way to finance it, because it doesn't bring any income tax reform, because it's going to be returned to the Finance Minister and a department associate who's going to buy the VAT you're paying for everything you've been paid on this raise. Dear friends, authoritarian regimes do this, they silence the media, they silence their people, they moan their people, they moan under debts, and they neglect a division of supporters. Unfortunately, there's nothing in this bag for you either. These are bags of rich people and followers. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0129par0667	Thank you. The third and final word for the groups belongs to Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0130par0671	So far, we haven't been able to get to the stand -- except for the budget -- in a few days' time, work our way through. We learn on the same day we're going to talk about such important matters, so we're coming up with a stack of papers like this. Mr. President, I salute all of you, our esteemed nation of lawmakers and television watchers. We have three martyrs in Afrin. We've just learned. May God have mercy on us. I offer my condolences to all our people. Dear friends, let me start with this. In early March, Prime Minister Bülli Yıldırım gave a speech at the 5th KOSGEBI and Enterpriseship Awards Ceremony of KOSGEB. I read part of his speech: We are now sending a law to Parliament, which we are changing from the root of the Thirty-three-year Law of Value Taxes; this is not a change; this is not a reform. What's in this? So far, there's a lot of ease, and I'm not going to count, and I'm not going to go into details, but what a citizen gets from the state is going to be paid by a VAT calendar, and it's not going to be a citizen's debtor from the state. If the VATs are not paid within three months, the state will pay interest for the time that is not paid. As he receives interest, he will do the same thing to those who are late, and to those who will give it, and then he repeats it in Konya, and he repeats it in some places. Now, listening to this, the citizen, the value-appropriate tax collector, says that at the end of 2017, he will receive 167 billion added value taxes from citizens, from the state's Finance Ministry, as of the end of 167 billion 2017. Everyone is happy, they say: "What if, this year, this will be paid in a short time." When I told Mr. Finance Minister, he said: "Be careful there, it will be paid according to a certain calendar." Now, Mr. Prime Minister. Will the citizen see it, and will be paid according to a certain calendar? Where will he hear the word of parentheses from? All of us thought that these payments would be made with the value value value of the Bill of the Law, that the movement of the market with KGF payments last year would be provided with VAT returns this year. Then we found out when we went into detail during the Commission talks, which is out of the question. From this past, 167 billion from the end of 2017, will rise to about 200 billion at the end of 2018, and will receive added value tax, will be monitored in a separate account taken by citizens and companies, and will be paid according to the procedures and grounds provided by the Finance Ministry in time. So it's left for years to come, and it's separated, so it's going to be until the end of 2018, which is going to be calculated from the beginning of 2019, until the end of 2018, so it's going to be evaluated separately, so it's not going to be paid in any way, or it's going to go on for a very long time. So the state's going to get you a hawk and a crow instead of a hawk, so you're going to get that $200 billion. Some of this is going to be taken by the public, by the CSI, by the municipalities, but a very important part is that at the end of 2018, about 120, 130 billion of the 200 billion is going to be taken by the private sector and by the citizens; in a sense, it's going to be based on the state, unfortunately, that's what's happening. My dear friends, it has been said that this is a reform. I've just read it, and Mr. Prime Minister is expressing it, and Mr. Finance Minister has made a point of view of it in the Commission, but later, during our discussions, he said it's not reform, but reform.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0131par0676	Reform, reform...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0130par0677	It has nothing to do with reform, I'm afraid, if only a reform could be done. Now, I wish for reform, I wish for reform, because the value-appropriation tax really needs reform, folks. Our tax system needs reform. Taxes must be reformed. There's an economic policy, there's a finance policy under it, and there's a tax policy under it; they have to be compatible. Our tax policy, unfortunately, is wrong, troubled, we don't know how to collect taxes -- they just told us about valuable speakers -- we're getting taxed on expenses in particular. The burden of indirect taxes is being crushed on too many citizens. We have an unequal, unfair tax structure. Tax reform is essential once, but reform is also essential for added value tax. Our Finance Minister has often expressed that the income and institutional tax tax will be combined, the tax will be reformed, but unfortunately he couldn't bring it to our Parliament, so they couldn't prepare it, so he came a few times before that, but he had to withdraw, he had to withdraw. The added value tax needs to be reformed, too, but the added value tax isn't the problem here, it's not reform for him. The problem with the added value tax is that there are so many exceptions and exemptions that there are no added value tax. However, the added value tax has been imposed for thirty-three years, a modern tax that has emerged in 1984 and has been in effect since 1/1/1985. But the logic of the added value tax is that each step is documented and the final projection of the tax paid from the previous period, by documenting it, to the consumer is foreseen. There's an automatic stabilization mission here, an audit mission. Therefore, exceptions and exemptions should not be too much in the added value tax, but there is so much exception and exemption in the added value tax, which is not explained, and unfortunately, with this arrangement called "reform" the exceptions and exemptions are being increased again. The Ministry of Finance had a study on 2017, called the Tax Expenses Report during our Commission's work. We thank them. It's been done specifically on our request, and it's been done in detail. We expect the next few years the same way. I'm going to read from there about these exceptions and exemptions. Look, dear friends, there are exceptions and exemptions in the tax value of $17 billion, 435 million in 2016 alone. Do you know the value of the added tax collected in 2016? 53 billion. 53 billion, 17 billion... so there's as much exception and exemption as a third of the added value. Is there such a value tax system? Could such a value added tax be an automatic stabilizer? Can inspection provide control at any stage? Look, there's a $55 billion collection in 2017. It remained under the value value tax intended in 2017, so it was not collected as much as it should have been in 2017. It can't be collected as much as it's intended -- as I just described -- so the government can't give its value tax returns. There's a Finance Ministry that can't return the added value tax, and there's a two-way deficit, which is the Finance Ministry, which can't collect the value tax. As I have just read, there are exceptions and exemptions as much as one third of the value value tax he collected -- which is out of the question. For 2017, if you look at more than 3 trillion medium-term programmes estimated for our added value tax, national product, illegal domestic product, 2017, 55 billion. In an illegitimate domestic product over 3 trillions, the value added tax has been the basic number for 18 per cent. How do you collect 55 billion, that's a very low number. So there are some problems, and that's the number. What needs to be done is fixed. Are we going to be able to collect a more rational, realistic value tax, increase in added value tax? Do we say that? No. Can we do the refunds right away? No. So, are we going to be able to put the added value tax at a reasonable rate within this illegitimate domestic product? I don't have that either. Where's the reform in that? Is there a reform side to this? As our Minister of Finance says, the most we can say is "Reform." It's a very well-intentioned description. As I've just said, with this arrangement, the bill separates the value of old and new addition taxes. The old, cumulative value tax will be paid in a long term, and the new ones will still be paid under the powers left to the Finance Ministry. In fact, the old added value taxes and the new added value taxes will be paid under the powers vested in the Finance Ministry. My dear friends, we're authorizing the Finance Ministry based on the amount of time, sector and business sizes set for discounts and extradition. Look, we're authorizing the amount of time, the amount of payment, the sector and the size of the business. The Ministry of Finance will be in charge of determining these things, which is actually very wrong. In fact, in a sense, the Ministry of Finance has been authorized in a way that is contrary to the Constitution, which is wrong. However, once the Finance Ministry is in charge of determining the procedures for extradition and reduction, the Finance Ministry will have problems with this, or if the Finance Ministry is not well-intentioned about this, deposit this money on the foundation. Make this donation... to this association...... that will be the issue. An extradition and discount system authorized by the Ministry of Finance will unfortunately bring difficulties. The Ministry of Finance shouldn't have taken that authority. Mr. Minister of Finance is an honest, decent, valuable friend of ours from the Ministry of Finance, but I'm afraid that giving the Ministry of Finance this authority would be a problem for the Ministry of Finance, and it would be a real pain in the ass. Such authority is a false authority, my dear friends, to be abused; companies, people will unfortunately resort to many ways to receive these returns. Well, that's what I'm saying, but how was it supposed to be reformed in the value-appropriate tax? What should have been done? Dear friends, what needed to be done was to eliminate large amounts of exceptions and exemptions and reduce tax rates. So we were actually going to reduce 18 percent of the basic ratio at first, reduce the exemptions and exceptions as much as possible. Look, when the added value tax first came out, there were up to 2,900,000 taxpayers in the first year it came out on the added value tax. During the talks, we learned that, for example, in Istanbul, Mr. Minister Maziel, then the Bookmaster of Istanbul, has a value tax to add 1,347 thousand; in Istanbul today, the number of tax to add today is 765 thousand. So, look, when it first came out, in 1985, thirty-three years ago, it was 1 million, 347 thousand, and 765 thousand today. Well, there's an anomaly here. If you can't fix them, how do you reform the added tax? Is it possible? And at some point throughout Turkey, the number that was 2 million, 990 thousand in its early years, approaching 3 million, is now 2 million, 590 thousand February. Dear friends, if a Ministry of Finance is reforming, a Ministry of Finance will fix these issues; it will increase the value value tax collection, it will increase its collection, and it will increase the number of taxpayers, and in these matters, the Ministry of Finance will not take authority over the sectors over the amount of reductions and returns, depending on the size of business in return and returns. These will cause great problems, unfortunately, to disrupt the system. We'll see it in the years to come, I'm afraid we'll see it all. My dear friends, there are many issues in this bill regarding the value tax of adding; I tried to sum it up. In a moment, Mr. Secretary will probably tell us what they're bringing, which extends exceptions and exemptions. I won't be too critical about these things, but in general, they're all wrong. There's only one important item brought in at the last minute, the 24th article. A temporary provision is being made in accordance with the CEC Law. It says: "As of 31/12/2017 of the return capital enterprises of municipal universities in medical schools -- there is no 2018 -- as of the end of 2017 -- the debt of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies in accounting records, if the conditions specified in the second joke are co-existed, will be paid over the return of the capital accounting agency for the loan given to run from the Finance Ministry budget. (We have learned in the Commission that there is a debt to the market for nearly 3.5 billion state hospitals. Medical supplies, drugs, or money, medical dealers, businesses that deal in this business are in big trouble. Three and a half billion is a huge sum of money that should not have been saved by now. In a well-working state, in a system, this money doesn't build up, and we've learned that since 2013, there have been deposits. Look, there are people who haven't been paid in five years, and they're coming today. Now, with this temporary clause, the Ministry of Finance says they'll pay for it. Well, how's he gonna pay? The Ministry of Finance says that as a result of the implementation of the discount rates, which will be determined by the Council of Ministers -- so certain discount rates will be determined by the Council of Ministers -- they will declare that they accept this, they will declare that they will give up all the courts, and then they will commit that they will not go to court -- very severe conditions -- and then the Finance Ministry will pay these businesses in accordance with the Finance Ministry -- which has been authorized to do so. My dear friends, the Treasury Department is the government in a sense. If the Ministry of Finance is in charge of these matters, it's going to be a problem. I have to say here what I just said about the value tax returns. During the payment of this money to the creditors, pay here again. When you're told to pay here... So we have to think about it, we have to say it. According to this, even if it's not a priority to those who donate to the foundations, to those who donate to the associations, it's going to be said, it's going to cause trouble, and the Treasury Department is taking a lot of trouble on its own. These refunds need to be made, and after that, payments on state hospitals need to be made on time for other payments, because my dear friends, because the state doesn't pay on time, they're being given medical supplies prices, pharmaceutical prices, or paramedical materials prices from very high prices, unfortunately to state hospitals. You don't pay me what I get in a year. I have to give you the numbers of next year. It's trying and it's causing a lot of trouble. It's becoming a burden to the government. And then, with laws like that, they try to break them. It's not the right thing to do. And in the operating system, the government has to pay them on time, so there shouldn't be any problems like that. Dear friends, thank you so much for your patience. I pay my respects. I wish him luck. I congratulate you again on your Regaip Kandili.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0132par0692	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. The first word on behalf of individuals belongs to Chorum MP Tutor Kose. Mr. Köse, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0133par0696	Mr. President, I'm celebrating the Regaip Kandili of our country, the entire Muslim world, with the first wish for humanity, peace, unity, and the acceptance of our prayers for our union. I pray for God's mercy to our soldiers who died in Afrin, Bitlis, and to heal our wounded. My dear friends, of course, as we all know in our country, Mr. Bkent has just said that there is no equal and unjust, and I will say that there is an unjust and cruel tax order. What kind of unfair and cruel tax arrangement? The indirect taxes, which are taxed by both the poor and the rich, are unfortunately 70 per cent of our country's budget. So, for example, it's going to be a little ironic, but a former minister wearing a $700,000 bribe watch and a minimum wage worker, when they get upset, they buy a cigarette with the same tax rate and drink with the same tax rate. That's what we mean by cruel and unfair tax scheme. Again, my dear friends, some of the arrangements have been made, but let's say for example, our demands for the removal of the VAT, the VAT, and the OTV, which the farmer used, the farmer's special consumption tax and the value tax that we've been committed to over the years, should be removed from the gas used by the farmer in the election declaration. There's no improvement in this, and it's not right in that sense. We've been saying for years that the VAT rate from yachts, cotras, marine vehicles, that's one percent, and that's not an adjustment. If you take rice in the package, it's eight percent, sir, and if you take it off, it's one percent, it's not edited. I mean, it's not like there's been a major change in our poor people's income. We don't think it's the right plan in that sense. I, of course, am a lawyer by profession. I'd also like to talk a little bit about the recent legal massacres in our country, after we mention this aspect of the law. In this week, under the protection of the President, look, this is a very important statement, a judge under the protection of the President, a prosecutor's theory cannot be made in any democratic country. Under the President's protection, the rules of the judges and prosecutors delayed due to the leak were drawn in the palace, and we all watched. Look, guys, everyone was standing up and applauding the president of a party in awe. The people we call everyone will distribute justice, judges who will judge for the Turkish nation, new judges. These judges applauded the President in great awe and gave the world a picture; the fronts are buttoned, they're all standing. Now, this photo takes judgment from being the third force, my dear friends. It's a photograph that sets up a pattern for the party's president, the president of a party. Again, this picture is a reflection of the order that prevents judgment, the third force, the law, the execution, from being a judge. This picture is a picture of a party, the Justice and Development Party, who put their uniform on the judge. My dear friends, this painting -- one of our vice presidents said it very well -- is a picture of the class order. What do you mean, "stomach formation"? There is no place for the sons of this nation in the system of toast, and there is no branch for the children of this nation to endure. This is a picture of the mindset that sees the separation of forces, independent judgment as a chain of foot. There is no place for these people's own children or our poor people in this picture again. Look, the reflection of this photograph is how it happens in our country in 2018, my dear friends, this photograph is not just a simple photograph. For example, in the recent shooting of this theory, 1.236 judges and prosecutors can be the mayor of the ruling party, the mayor of the AKP, the head of women's arms, the county manager. In fact, we were surprised to see why the clappers applauded, and when we looked at the painting, and the judges applauded, they weren't judges, they were members of a party, executives, so they stood up and clapped in awe. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, my dear friends, I told you that people's children don't belong in the reflection of this photograph, in the budding order. Who's got room? The D.A.'s daughter has a place. The daughter of the Chief Prosecutor is being appointed in no way, and she arrives in Ankara the next day. What is it? It was a wife situation. Sir, these teachers haven't been assigned partners in six years, are they bald? So the Chief Public Prosecutor gets the reward for saying justice to a party's march of justice by appointing his daughter here. Look, guys, do you know what this picture, this painting, is like in Turkey? I've terminated the president's chief advisor, a former MP, the order of Alevi in the court, the rule of Alevi in the high judiciary. It's a reflection of this photo that can give him the courage to say. Look, a chief of staff can say that. I'll tell you this: If at any time there was a high judgment of the Alehi, you wouldn't be able to establish your unjust and cruel order today, and they wouldn't have allowed it. My dear friends, again, this painting is a picture of a system where suspects are evacuated under the guise of the murderer and under the cover of the murderer. Unfortunately, there's millions of dollars coming in, folks. A member of your party admitted it here. This picture is the name of a system that was eliminated in the interview, even though the first of the law school, his family was only the top of the law school because they were Republican People's Party. My dear friends, when the Fetullah Gülen terror organization appointed him in the State and the Supreme Court, then Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc gave as much as God gave him. He said, "You all remember this." As long as these practices continue, you will face much worse than what you're complaining about today, and you will face this country. Look, my friends, the United States is a country where the presidential regime is best implemented. There is a meeting in the United States called the State of the Union, where the presidents of the United States are speaking in Congress and traditionally. In the last year and in this year's talks, a group doesn't stand up in the front row, the others stand up in the entire hall, at Congress, and all the shields are applauding the president's speech. Do you know who didn't get up? Members of the federal court, high judges, they don't stand up and applaud in case our neutrality is compromised. Look, they don't get enough of this, and all three of the nine members don't even go to that meeting. Imagine, that meeting we had, a Chief Justice of the Court, the Supreme Court, didn't go to the palace. God forbid, he's either arrested for bribery or for something else, and he's been in prison for a long time. Another group won't stand up at that meeting, folks, and that group is soldiers. So the political institutions, the judiciary and the soldier don't stand up in the event of the U.S. President's meeting in Congress in case their neutrality is compromised. Of course, now, Madam Chief Prosecutor, no one is neutral wearing a robe. By having the ethics and sensitivity of the profession, one becomes a judge and is neutral. I speak to him from here: We don't call him the Chief Prosecutor of this country; we look upon him as a servant of the court, a slave, an ordinary man who has lost his independence, his neutrality. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, friends, there's a lot to say about this. If it smells of meat, there's salt, and if it smells of salt, we talked a lot during the Constitutional vote, in 2010, and in 2017. But now that we're here, that's where the judgment is when it smells like salt. Now, as a member of the district of the sugar factory, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say a few words about sugar while I'm here. First, I congratulate Salim Beslim, a member of the Justice and Development Party of Çorum, who freely explained his position on sugar factories, which I know, among the ruling party MPs, many of our friends oppose the privatisation of the sugar factory. Now, Mr. President has a very good saying, he says: "The world is bigger than five. I swear, I love this word, for God's sake. If he means it, it's a very appropriate word, an anti-emperical stance. Turkey is bigger than Cargill, sirs. So we can't let thousands of farmers, thousands of movers, workers, shut down those sugar factories, by privatizing sugar factories, under the orders of a sugar trust based on starch. We, the Republican People's Party, will stand before this like mountains and castles. Sugar is a country, sugar can't be sold. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you give me a minute...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0134par0719	Complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0133par0721	We, the Republican People's Party, will stand like mountains, like rocks, and we will continue to take care of those people who are poor in our country, in our millions of farmers, in our workers, in our movers, in our movers, in our livestock. We say sugar is a homeland, sugar can't be sold. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0134par0724	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0135par0725	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0134par0726	Master, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0136par0729	Thank you, Mr. President. We're discussing a bill for the added value tax. Of course, our Denizli MP, Emin Haluk Ayhan Bey, has shared our views on the whole issue, but as someone who's been taxing and taxing for years, I'd like to share my views on a matter here, a little bit of a conscientious responsibility. Now, here, something is being brought into the system with the 12th article in the form of the gross taxation. In fact, when we look at it, it's a tax assessment and I don't think it's the right approach to integrate something like this into the system for thirty-four years, even when the conditions of Turkey and the world were much more primitive, before the tax was first imposed on something that had not been imposed on it for thirty-three years. Here, of course, the problem is that there are some small taxpayers, or there are a lot of people who can be taxed, maybe they're trying to be solved. The solution, however, is to reduce exceptions and exemptions and reduce the list of discounted VAT rates. I mean, that's the way it's always done around the world.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0137par0734	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0136par0735	Here, of course, you see policies in the policy documents of the original Justice and Development Party, and in the political documents of both the party and the state, that exceptions and exemptions will be reduced. On the other hand, in this law, of course, we see exceptions and exemptions increasing. So the system becomes inoperable. Minister, in the current system, not in VAT, but in income tax, for example, or other taxes, it's a small tradesman's way or at work, so when we should remove such exemptions or removal practices, even in this system, and even in no way, there should be no final taxation in this era, I don't think it would be right for me to be added to the system now, when there should be no more final taxation in this era, when there should be no more. Please, I think it would be helpful to reassess the issue in that sense -- of course, a decision has been made, but -- That's something to think about when management is too inadequate. Thankfully, serious reforms have been made regarding the tax administration, its capacity improved. I think Turkey doesn't need such a thing, I think it should be returned from it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0138par0739	Thank you. Now, in the name of the government, it belongs to our Finance Minister, Mr. Naci Agbal. Mr. Agbal, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0139par0746	Mr. President, very dear MPs, at the beginning of my words, I congratulate the Regaip Kandili of the Islamic world, and I pray to God Almighty that this night is the cause of all of us together. I'm here today to express our views on the Government's bill for amendments to certain laws and laws. First of all, I pray that this legal arrangement will bring blessings to our country's economy. We're making an important legal change. The added value tax, as you all know, is a system that's been applied for 33 years. A lot of changes have been made over time, but there's never been a change in some basic establishment. I find that change extremely important in that regard. The fact that you have called it "Reform." It's not "Reform." It's not worth what you call it. The main thing is, are we meeting or not the needs that citizens expect from the economy? In drafting this bill, we met with all trade organisations, NGOs, business community, small tradesmen, business rooms; there were no talks, no opinions, no institutions left. We've studied other country practices one by one. In the countries of the European Union, we've reviewed and analyzed the law on value-appropriate tax laws. Again, we've done some analysis of the problems we've encountered here in the field. In particular, we have done scenario analysis on the economic impact of our arrangements on the tax system. We've re-interviewed the results and proposals with the partners and we're pleased to see that the Plan and Budget Commission's bill, which has now been discussed with the General Assembly, meets the expectations that they actually apply the Add Value Tax Act, and that everyone should be quick to legalize it. Why? The taxpayer brings conveniences, eases to businesses, takes the burdens off of them. Now, it's said that what determines whether or not a law is reformed is its approach to the exceptions, whether there is a tax rate or not. I also stated in the commission that the biggest claim of this bill is that it reduces the tax burden on businesses. Is that important? It's important, of course, because we've been telling businesses for thirty-three years in the Level Value Tax Act we've been implementing for thirty-three years, that if you don't somehow drop the VAT you've collected during your purchases, you'll be burdened with this added tax charge. So, as a business, you're effectively putting up with an unnamed tax burden that's not defined by the law. This tax burden has grown, grown, grown, and has become a hump on businesses. There's a number on the business balance sheet that looks like it's going to get VAT, but you haven't been able to get those numbers in years. In fact, the current system is punishable by investors. You're making an investment, you're taking a serious investment in an important export to get jobs, but the current system tells you: try to get the VATs you've been uploading from the VAT, which you've been collecting over sales over the years. How much? As long as it takes. No promises, no commitments, no deadlines, no obligations. The state is at ease, where the government says, brother, write. It can't be requested in any way. Now, is that true, fellas? So what we're saying here is that added value tax is a consumption tax. The tax liability is the consumer who will be burdened with taxes. Manufacturers, businesses, are only mediate in terms of the Adding Value Tax Act; they take and give in chains, but the main tax burden remains on consumers. But effectively speaking, that's not how this system works. So, we've analyzed all these issues in the work we've done here. In terms of a clear reduction of the tax load, in terms of the ease it gives businesses, in terms of lowering the cost of tax fitness, in terms of non-fair tax practices, yes, this is a reform. What do we expect from a reform? We expect ease for the citizen; at some point in his work, in his work, we want the citizen to relax. Reform isn't a goal, it's a tool. In this sense, this law is an important legal arrangement for the purposes required of the law. Today, when we look at value added tax or indirect taxes, the application of Turkey is roughly the same as OECD practices, the application of the European Union. Only we and only we have the rule of nonrefundable VAT. It was placed thirty-three years ago, so it needs to be changed. At the coming point, there's a rule of law that if it's a burden on the economy, if it's a burden on the economy, if it's a burden on the economy, you have to solve it. I have to say, it's the right approach from this point of view. There are a lot of other conveniences here, and I believe that after this legal arrangement, a whole new era of value taxing begins. We're waiting for an increase in registration because why? Bringing burdens on businesses by law doesn't mean you're going to get all that tax; sometimes it supports off-the-books, setting the stage for unregisteredness. We'll be encouraging registration at some point, by bringing right, just, in accordance with the nature of the process. Adding value tax returns are just a method used in the current system to deliver exports or discounted products. We are now saying that if there is a tax burden that cannot be removed within 12 months, even though it is not exported, the government will return it. We have seen it doing studies, and it is returned in England in a month. So you were loaded in January, and you left after a month, with that VAT burden on you, and the state is returning your VAT to you. We were surprised to see if it could be returned this way in a month, but the system works there. So I'm not going to take it here. The system doesn't work. In fact, these approaches are behind much of what we today call false documents, often called misleading documents. What are we doing here? If it's not returned in 12 months, we'll clear the way for extradition. By considering our resources and financial resources in the economy, we're authorizing the Finance Ministry to reduce that time to three months, so we're opening the way for further delays, in favor of the taxpayer. Now, it's just been expressed here, what's this bill doing about the return of the added value tax? Dear friends, as the government, we have taken many steps to speed up added value tax returns, to facilitate extradition processes, and we continue to take them. In particular, in the last two years, we've made arrangements to reduce transactions in VAT returns, reduce bureaucracy, make refunds faster. We've set up special residency tax offices just to do VAT returns. Sixty-five percent of VAT returns are being done today at VAT return agencies, which we've established in the last two years. What do you mean? It is done much faster by experts with residency, and in 2016 we raised the VAT return rate of $37 billion per year to $51 billion in 2017. So he's also increased the refunds here, which were done quickly. What's this? He's the lifeblood of the economy. In fact, the money we got from the citizen, we paid our debt faster. So, here, as a government, our position or actions in matters related to VAT is not just this law, but we've issued a number of Councils of Ministers' decrees before that law, and we've issued Ministry notifications.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0140par0753	Now there's a raise again, Mr. Secretary, a last-minute raise on your bike again.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0139par0754	Look, today the exporter is now able to receive an export refund in five work days. We trust our citizens, so we'll make it easier for them. Our basic approach is to facilitate the work of citizens in tax laws, to base on trust in citizens, to support the registered economy with voluntary tax integration programmes, and at some point to implement a tax policy that takes the citizen to the centre, hopefully we'll continue to do so.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0140par0755	What is its contribution to Düzce, and what is its contribution to Urbana?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0139par0756	Dear Regent, why don't you show patience? Why don't you understand? I'm asking the vice president of the group, so we're talking here, we're trying to inform the House.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0141par0757	You address the General Assembly, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0140par0758	Mr. Secretary, of course, it's true, but we don't understand.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0142par0759	Mr. Secretary, continue your conversation.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0143par0760	That is an inappropriate attitude, and I condemn that attitude, and that attitude is not right.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0142par0761	The usual attitude.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0144par0762	I condemn you too, 20 minutes later, and you're not getting to the point.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0145par0763	Mr. Tanal, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0146par0764	As usual, you behave in a manner that suits you, and in my opinion, at the moment, everyone condemns your attitude, so you should know that.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0145par0765	You will not determine the content of the conversation, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0147par0766	Mr. Secretary, a person does what is best for him, so please continue your conversation.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0148par0767	People don't take you seriously anyway, and your own group...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0145par0768	Mr. Tanal, I beg you, look, please...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0149par0769	Dear friends, secondly... It's a shame, it's a shame.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0148par0770	I'm telling the truth.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0149par0771	I'm not doing a polemic here, I'm trying to inform the House.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0148par0772	You're doing the pollen.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0150par0773	Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0149par0774	It's a real shame. We're doing a job here, and I really don't appreciate the attitude we're taking here. I'm not really polemic, technically speaking.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0148par0775	You pick on me when there's nothing to talk about. Now I'm going to make a promise, and I'm going to pick on you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0149par0776	May God give you wisdom.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0151par0777	Amen!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0148par0778	May God give you wisdom. Look, no one's listening, your group isn't taking it seriously, seriously.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0152par0779	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0153par0780	Add value tax...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0152par0781	Mr. Tanal, look, you're disrupting the working order, please. Look, I'm warning you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0154par0782	Your group doesn't take you seriously.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0152par0783	Mr. Tanal, I beg you, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0155par0784	We're also making an important arrangement here on the stockpile of added value tax. We're also pave the way for the return of our past, our citizen's years of waiting, unrefundable value taxes. Of course, we're going to consider budgets here. Here, he's just spoken, and he's been given a mandate to the Ministry of Finance for budgets, but -- I've also expressed it in the Commission -- that's the application here, in the middle term of mid-term program work covering 2019-2021, we're going to determine the amount of refundion from the VAT from the past, we're going to share it with the medium-term programme, we're going to place it in the budget, we're going to place it, and the Finance Ministry will never use its power in person or company; sectors will use it in some abstract, normable, especially in areas that promote production. So, in any way, the fact that the Ministry has the authority to return doesn't allow a specific application to be performed, and it never occurs to us, and we'll do that. Look, we're bringing in an important regulation of this bill, and we're bringing in a rule that connects the executive body to the return of the value tax in three months. We're saying that if a citizen has given an extradition, if he's given his documents, in three months the state will do all of his research, and in three months he'll pay for it. If he doesn't pay, the government will pay the company interest this time. So, look, we're bringing in clear rules that hold the state accountable, which is very important for the accountability of the state. Again, in export deliveries, you know, the existing system can only be extradited as much as the VAT in exported goods, but we're opening the way for the return of the added value tax on the stock, not just the VAT, to encourage exports. This is a very important arrangement in terms of our exporters. Here, we're forming a group of heads of the Tax Control Board to make the added value tax return process more effective, and only these VAT return reviews will be dealt with. We're getting 2,000 new recruits. We'll set up a risk analysis center here. He's right, there's some concern about risk, and since I know the same thing, there's a need for the administration to increase its capacity here at the point of not being abused by the new ease we've brought in the future. We're going to make legal arrangements here, and we're going to conduct a lot more risk analysis of return processes in practice. We're bringing in an app for our small businesses, a gross VAT return system. We're simplifying the system. It's a similar system in a simple way today. This is not an app for thirty-three years. Today, Britain has this system, so modern tax systems always have simplifying, facilitating applications in favor of small businesses. In this system we're bringing in, he's got to get his papers while he's selling small businesses. He has to pay his VAT and declare his VAT when he sells it, and he has to collect it. In this regard, we're not taxing a profit in the system, we're just making a determination in favour of the citizen on the balance between the taxed VAT and the VAT downloaded. Therefore, we are not giving up a document on the VAT, there is no system to remove the document order regarding the discount of the VAT. In many sectors -- these in particular the service sectors -- this kind of obligation really will save the taxpayers from going to other mistakes. That's what we saw during our work in the field. Look, we're postponing payments due to VAT statements for small businesses for two months, so we're postponing payment in the system that we just brought in today after a citizen gives his statement. What businesses? It's for small businesses. And that's extremely important. We have regulations about the only exceptions, right, that expand the bill, but what's it about? It's about design activities. Today we all know how important RD and design is. In fact, in the previous bag of legislation, we brought it in as a temporary item. And here we bring VAT exceptions in favor of our businesses at R&D centers and design centers, at technokents and services. In order to support health tourism, we are making an arrangement on the value-appropriate tax in health care. Guys, health tourism is very important. The population of the world is getting old. In this area, countries give many incentives to put themselves first, making many arrangements. As a government, we view health tourism as one of the most important components in the future's tourism. Turkey's young population, its climate properties, makes Turkey an attraction in terms of its potential health tourism. We're making a series of adjustments, and this arrangement will encourage it. We're bringing in a VAT exception to encourage corporateization of inferior partnerships. Look, these are all important incentives to support the economy. Today -- just expressed -- for the first time in the last two years in Turkey, we publish the Tax Expenses Report. It's a transparent, accountable report, all together, in accordance with international standards, with the contributions of our representatives. We share the applications, open the way for this report to be questioned, do all the technical explanations for the calculations. So for the past 15 years as a government, we have increased transparency of reporting on public spending and public obligations and public assets in the area of finance policy for the past 16 years, and we have increased accountability, and we've published the Report on Tax Expension in accordance with international standards. This report says that the annual VAT we gave up is around 28 billion, about 1 per cent of national income. When compared with other countries, the tax left in Turkey is not much different from other countries. In that sense, perhaps Bent bent bent, when we look down, we see a long list, but in fact, many countries do this kind of discount app, exception apps with secondary regulations by the cabinet's decision. We've seen them do the work, the discount Turkey brings today and many of the exceptions, the same discounts and exceptions in many countries. As a matter of fact, the tax on our collection of goods and services is 11 per cent per cent, and the OECD average is 11 per cent. In that sense, the rate of collection of indirect taxes, property and service taxes in Turkey is in line with international rates. Also, what are we doing here, a school, a health facility, a children's home, a children's home, a nursing home, a nursing home built by philanthropists to the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Health, other public institutions? We're bringing in a VAT exception, a very important arrangement. Today, many of our citizens say: "I have money on the sidelines, I want to build a school, I want to build a mosque, I want to build a house, but when you build it, you get VAT from me, while I do a job for the government. We've been doing something that our citizen has been saying for a long time. It's important to say that all the groups here are already positive, and everyone's been positive about it. The Adding Value Tax Act... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0156par0797	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0155par0798	Look, there are some exceptions in the existing law that we call an exception. You donate schools to the Ministry of National Education, no VAT; no scholarships, no free students, no VAT, but the current law says: ▪ When we offer these goods or services, don't collect VAT, but write down the VAT you're carrying to produce this goods and services. In many areas, it has actually eliminated an unfair practice for our businesses. There's more to it than that. I thank you very much. I hope this law will bring great benefits to our country, to our country, to our economy. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0157par0802	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the individuals, the second and last speaker is Kars MP Yusuf Selahattin Beyribey. Here you go, Mr. Beyribey.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0158par0806	Dear President, Dear Minister, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've made a personal commitment to the Addict Tax Act. As I salute you all over and over again, I feel that this law is good for both consumers and manufacturers, for everyone. The added value tax is actually a law that concerns the final consumer, but until it comes to the final consumer, the manufacturer is a liability to the one who makes the commercial dimension. So we're taking the added value, but the middleman, the seller, even though he deserves the value of the trader's addition, he's getting the time, the time, the stock or the amount of time he's making, because of the added value of his sale. When he can't give you what you're getting, he's causing an unfair inefficiency, which means he's damaged his earnings. And that's what's going to affect employment as you grow up, and maybe it's going to cause prices to increase in the future process with its stock, as if he has a lot of money and he doesn't have money. So what's the assignment? The trader will hand over his VAT, which he received from the other citizen after his fall, but here the trader can't sell his property within a year, and one year the VATs swell up. A year later, according to the law passed -- which was issued in 1985 -- the VAT extradition is not possible to take back the VAT after a year -- and the person who did the work suffered a great deal from it. I'm in favor of getting the VATs on time, right, because the system is built on it. There were some glitches in the work of that system, and we're making laws about how to eliminate those glitches. However, we also bring in a number of additional things, which, most importantly, is that we've also passed on two months of VATs of the small tradesman, and we're also making it easier for our shop by bringing a statement system. Again, we're taking out the VAT on RD studies, on design, and on the operations of these. For example, I'm a paramedic. A VAT discount is being given while providing health care services related to health care, health tourism from the outside. I believe that in the future it will be the same now -- that Turkey will be the health centre for all of Europe. Our physicians, our investments, our development in this area is very good. If our prices are more appropriate than outside, if they're cheaper, he'll have surgery in Germany, which is already happening now -- he's having surgery in Turkey, he's having better conditions. And there's an incredible distance between yesterday and today, and our hotel services, our health care, our technology has reached a level that's not behind Europe. I'd like to express that I care that this VAT is up, especially in terms of promoting health tourism. Again, with this law, it was the VAT debt of those who were particularly charitable, but it was the goods that were handed over to the public. I would also like to say that I support the removal of the VAT. From 2002 to this year, the EC PARTY has always done positive things. In his work... in this VAT process, even though someone says it's not about the citizens, Turkey is our home with all its borders. If we separate our children in our house, if we don't give our children the rights, then anarchy will arise. We're not supposed to have anarchy in this house. As we describe it, I feel that we must protect the rights of both the manufacturer and the trader, as well as the consumer who gives the VAT. From 2002 to today, serious things have been done. In particular, with our support in the past, many villages, cities, cities, municipalities, national education, other areas have been given many schools, and in this way large investments have come to places where perhaps there will be no service, where there will be no service, or where there will be no service in the country. I, in particular, believe that with the absence of VAT, services to state institutions -- a mosque, a school, a dorm, such as these -- these needs in those areas will be done very easily by our businessmen or philanthropists and will bring great benefits to our region, Turkey. I know the samples from the past. And in my house of Sarıkamis, there were houses made, and again, there were charitable men in Kars. If he gets a VAT exemption, maybe instead of a dorm, he'll build two dorms or build a dorm, build a school next to it. And we see examples of these often, and I care about that. I think it's in every VAT practice in the world, without further ado -- which is the result of great work, of labor. After a 33-year period, of course, a revision was needed, and our government demonstrated that by exposing this revision, by eliminating an injustice. I congratulate our government on this beautiful bill of law. Hopefully, it will bring blessings to our country, to our nation. No stopping, he says, keep going, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0159par0814	Thank you. Now we're going to do the QA. I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system to ask questions. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0160par0818	I'm asking the Finance Minister: If there is an insured or retired citizen in the family, or if there is a salary of over 1,200 Turkish liras, the salaries given to disabled citizens from social welfare foundations, the assistance given to our disabled citizens, unfortunately, are being cut off. What's the reason for this? Why is the family's insurance and pension justified in cutting the salary to the disabled? The salary for the disabled is a social aid given to the disabled, not to the family, but to the disabled. The family's income and salary should be evaluated separately, but it is really not appropriate to be evaluated together, which needs to be reconsidered. According to our constitution, this practice, which undermines the principle of the social state, must be removed from practice at a moment's notice, correct these wrongs, and be paid back to each disabled person. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0159par0820	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0161par0821	Mr. Secretary, it is understood from reports that import drugs used to treat some chronic diseases are not available in the market, but also in public complaints and in the press. It is not possible to provide some imported drugs used to treat blood pressure, diabetes, and asthma. Due to undiscovered drugs, treatments are failing, doctors are forced to change the way they treat, and therefore, citizens face vital risks. Does the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance have an initiative to resolve this problem due to imported drug policy and a significant increase in foreign currency? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0159par0823	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0162par0824	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many vehicles have been given to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan from 2002 to today by states abroad during the prime minister's term? Under the law, the ledger must be kept and transferred to the treasure register, to the treasure, is such a transaction done? If not, where are these vehicles now, for what purpose, for whom? The second question is, in the same way, what are the dollars, exchanges, euros that were given to the President from other foreign countries during the presidency? Can you tell me whether these are recorded or not? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0163par0828	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0164par0829	Mr. President, in the wake of a heroic struggle against the occupational forces, we celebrate the 98th year of the liberation of our lovely town of Feke, the great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, with respect and gratitude, my greetings and greetings to my fellow citizens of Fekeli. Mr. Secretary, March 22nd is celebrated as Water Day all over the world. On every private platform today, statements have been made that water and drinking water is rapidly disappearing, that our country is not a water-rich country, but rather a water-poor country. In fact, with this movement, a few of our villagers, our farmers, who have adopted agriculture, land, streams, watering and drinking water, protected, protected, despite the mistake of the Alleşehir Law, have to be supported by realistic and sustainable agricultural policies. Energy support should be provided for our farmers in terms of the future and sustainability of country agriculture, the Energy Fund in energy bills, municipal electricity consumption, added value tax and the TRT share must be removed. I'd like to extend my regards to all of you, assuming you'll be sensitive about the matter.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0163par0831	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0165par0832	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this arrangement for VAT is, yes, important, VAT extradition, significant arrangements for exceptions. It's especially important at the point of supporting small businesses. That's what the bag we completed last night was about, and there were important arrangements for the RD. But we insist that they will not be enough -- the only factor is the VAT reduction, not the exception -- is to implement more holistic policies at the point of supporting the economy, the small operator; at the point of employment, unemployment and support policy. So, Mr. Secretary, in terms of our real reputation at the press freedom point the other day, you see, the purchase of a media group by a media group close to the government or near the government; here's the idea that we have a monopoly or a perception of the press; what do you think about that? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, it's nice to be supportive, the technical arrangements are important, but there's a different way back from the other side.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0166par0837	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0167par0838	Thank you, Mr. President. And I congratulate you on the lamp of the Islamic world. In Anatolia, our local daily and weekly newspapers, which continue their broadcasts only with subscribers and official ads, maths, have serious economic problems. Those who are not qualified are barely able to maintain their broadcasts. Most of our newspapers are in danger of shutting down because of the increased prices of paper, paint and other printing tools and equipment used in parallel to dollars and because they fail to meet their qualified newspaper obligations. However, the official ads received by our local newspapers from the Press Agency are still being paid by 2016, Mr. Minister. The 20 per cent increase rates for the year 8, 2018 per cent in 2017 have not yet been reflected in column/instruction prices. The institution also has the idea of posting these ads on its official website. Is it to eliminate the free and independent voice of the unattainable, uncontrollable Anatolian, the local media that serves for the public? I urge the concerned minister here to make the necessary arrangements. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0168par0843	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0169par0844	Thank you. I'm celebrating the Regaip Kandili of the entire Islamic world. Especially in the VAT arrangement, in the services of those who do good, we care deeply about the development of the VAT, and we believe that the Kaisers will serve the charitable even more. And for that, I thank the Minister and those who have done so much.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0170par0847	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0171par0848	I'm asking the Finance Minister, as of last night, a liter of gasoline has seen $6 in some areas. According to this, a high tax is being paid to consumers by adding 3.28 Turkish liras, along with a tax for 2.72 Turkish lira, which is the price of fuel. Why is there so much tax being paid? The 2018 budget envisions a budget of $696 billion, but 762 billion Turkish-dollar budget costs, while the non-interest balance has gone bad. Do you have any work to make this right? As Turkey's foreign debt must be translated in 12 months approaches 170.5 billion dollars, 83 per cent of it appears to belong to the private sector. 43 per cent of the $147.5 billion external obligations belong to private sector companies, the real sector. Do you have a plan to make these payments? In all 2017...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0172par0852	Now, to answer the questions, I'll leave the word to our Finance Minister, Mr. Naci Agbal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0173par0854	It's not over yet.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0172par0855	If there's time, I'll come back after the answer.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0856	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Arslan, they've raised a question about the involvement of certain revenues while determining the right to social benefits. Although I don't know exactly what the salary is tied up there, as a general fact, I can tell you that all welfare payments are based on the domestic approach to the economic situation. The total income entering a household can be different; it can be a fee, it can be a pension, it can be a rent income, it can be a commercial gain; it is determined whether the number of people entering a household is divided into the number of people in which they are in economic poverty, because many welfare payments are subject to economic poverty, as well as other conditions. As far as I'm concerned, that's how I'm going to answer the matter, but in detail, could it be the disability pension of the months?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0175par0858	It's a disability monthly, but it's given to the disabled this month, but it's a disability pension, which is said to have someone else's income. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0859	Here, I can tell you that the entire household income is divided by the number in the household.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0175par0860	But it can't be. We're giving it to the person. It needs to be fixed. There's a mistake here.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0861	No, no, I'm just saying, I'm also going to talk to the Ministry of Family.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0175par0862	There's been a mistake, Mr. Secretary, to correct it.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0863	Mr. Pineak, they've made a point about the drugs. I mean, I don't have that kind of information. For one thing, as a government, we have structural reform regulations that are crucial to our citizen's access to the drug, to get the drugs he needs from all channels. Look, today our citizen can go straight from the pharmacy and access the medicine. If there's a drug that needs to be delivered abroad, we're bringing medicine from abroad, including the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association. At times, we manage the risks at the supply point, lowering special discount rates on certain drugs, but I can tell our Minister of Health about the issues you say -- is there such information, or not -- but as a government, we've always made every effort to ensure that the drug -- wherever the need is -- is whatever it needs -- is what it takes. Mr. Tanal, you know, there are regulations that will be applied to public officials or government officials -- including all authorities -- and the things given within the framework of the protocol, and that rule applies to everyone. By asking a question from this point of view, you're trying to make sense of it as if it weren't being done, but it's not possible to accept it. Turkey is a state of law. Whatever is given to all authorities, institutions, is recorded under protocol.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0176par0866	Is there a vehicle or not? What am I implying? I'm asking you straight. What am I implying? I'm asking if there's a vehicle or not.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0867	Now, what you're saying is that I don't know anything about the number of vehicles, but sometimes we see a value assessment being created by asking questions.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0176par0868	It doesn't mean anything. Is there a vehicle or not? If so, was it recorded or not?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0869	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0176par0870	So you don't have to go all the way around.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0871	Mr. Tanal, watch your language.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0176par0872	I'm careful with my words. Watch your language.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0873	I'm not stumbling around. Put on your manners. Look, it's a blessed day.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0177par0874	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0176par0875	You've got your manners, you've got your manners! What am I implying?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0876	Look, let's please respect each other.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0177par0877	Mr. Tanal, look, you asked your question, as soon as the answer satisfied you, the Minister gave you the answer.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0176par0878	I'm simply asking the question.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0879	Look, I take your words seriously and I answer.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0178par0880	Don't take it, Minister, don't take it.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0179par0881	Mr. Secretary, you take the other questions.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0174par0882	You may not like my answer, you may not think it's enough, but take back that promise you made, and I won't accept it. I refuse to let anyone use such words.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0179par0883	Mr. Tanal, you're taking credit for other friends, and time goes by. Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0180par0884	What am I implying, what? Oh, my God!
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0181par0885	Mr. Secretary, please don't take any calls.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0179par0886	Look, respect the rights of other friends, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0180par0887	Mr. President believes it. He says it. It's civilized to ask questions.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0179par0888	The clock's ticking. There are friends entering the system for a question. Mr. Secretary will answer them all. It may not satisfy you, but Mr. Secretary is responding.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0182par0889	He said: "In particular, some matters concerning agricultural policy must be given priority, support must be given," he said. I agree. And as a government, we're already taking a lot of steps to improve agriculture, to improve agriculture. That was very well said. A holistic support policy must be produced in a holistic policy style. That's what we think we're doing. In particular, there have been significant improvements in the agricultural sector over the past 15 years, given both the value of export and the value of export, but there are still things to be done. Let's hope we all do that together. Mr. Özdemir, right, there are a lot of regulations in this law to support the economy, both in the bag and in the law. We're all thinking the same thing. The state of law is very important, all freedoms are very important; it's not important today, it's important in the past, it's important in the future. It's all of our common sensitivities here, and it's the top priority of our government. I think that if there's a transaction in the press today that's completely commercial based on talks between companies, we should consider it within the free market economy. It would be wrong of me to make a comment, but the development of the state of law, increasing freedoms, increasing the welfare of our citizens, the common goal of all parties, common zeal. We're all racing each other here. As a government, we have been making progress in these areas with great zeal, starting with life for fifteen years. I mean, where do we see this? For the past 16 years, we've seen an increase in foreign direct capital investments in Turkey, we've seen it in people's lives in Turkey, we've seen it in a much more comfortable way in which their lifestyles are expressed and so on. We may have a different point of view, but as a result, we're also trying to serve our citizens around common goals, common rhetoric. Mr. Bektasoglu, I've actually been there a couple of times about advertising prices. I mean, in private, I'll tell you the first time I see our Minister. I've heard about it in a few places this week.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0183par0893	They're dying.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0182par0894	So I'm going to tell our minister, and he's going to have to make the necessary statements here. Mr. Dedeoglu, we thank you, too. It was really an arrangement that our benefactors had been waiting for. I believe it will increase the sensitivity of our citizens in this regard. Mr. Arslan, the tax burden on gasoline... anything can be said, so if you say anything, I say that the tax load has dropped in this period.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0184par0897	I mean, it's worth twice as much, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0182par0898	But, look, it's like this: I mean, in general, over the years, during the AK PARTY administrations, the total tax burden continued at a certain threshold. That's the way to look at it. As for private sector debt... as a government, you know, there were some regulations in the previous bag law on managing risks related to the private sector's debt, preventing risks. So the necessary arrangements for this matter have been created as a system, but as of now, I don't think there's a problem with paying private sector debt, debt abroad. Our economy is growing, the wheels are spinning. In 2017 -- it will be announced in the days ahead -- we will see a high growth in the economy. In 2018, when you look at indicators of the first three months as investments, production, employment, exports, there are very positive indicators. Of course, the inflation issue, the current issue, includes some risks, and we're taking precautions on these issues, and we're going to continue to take them, but the economy of Turkey, as a general part of the economy, has successfully emerged from the July 15th low blow attempt, and has shown that its foundations are solid, as well as its performance. From that point of view, that's how I see it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0185par0902	Mr. Özdemir, we have time, please.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0186par0903	Just one more quick question. Thank you, Mr. President, again. In your presentation, Mr. Secretary, you said that the return of the KDV will be established under tax control and will receive nearly 2,000 new staff. Can you be more specific about this subject, about hiring personnel, about 2,000 new recruits?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0187par0906	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0188par0907	Thank you very much. In the arrangement we're making here, we're going to get a thousand assistant tax inspectors and a thousand government revenue experts. Our goal here is to employ these friends and prepare them forward in the new tax-appropriate restitution leadership that we've established within the Tax Control Board. On the other hand, in my speech, we're setting up a new risk analysis center. In particular, economic activities in the new system need to be monitored closely, regularly and based on risk analysis. We're going to give these friends a lot of education in economics, economic analysis, analysis of sectoral activities, and then we're going to get about a thousand public income specialists here, and we're going to train them forward in the coming term. Indeed, we are making an important relief in favor of citizens of the VAT Law. But there are risks involved. The only way to manage these risks is to monitor economic activity based on risk analysis. Hopefully, our friends will give us a great deal of power and energy to develop administrative capacity in this regard.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0189par0910	Mr. Bektasoglu, I'll take a short one of yours.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0190par0911	Sir, yesterday was World Forestry Day. This meaningful day was celebrated in Bulancak district of Giresun, in the mosque courtyard, in front of a giant poster of Mr. President Erdoğan hanging from the dome. Erdogan spoke to the congregation live to those who were there. I consider this ceremony to be proof that politics entered the mosque, and I want to express that my fellow believers who pray in the mosque, as do all my Muslim brothers and sisters. By hanging the banner, I demand that the holy place of the great Islamic religion be processed for those who desecrated our window. I hereby send them my love and greetings from here to celebrate the day of our forest villagers, the workers who worked hard to preserve our forest existence. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0191par0914	Thank you. Anything?
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0192par0916	I'm celebrating with the same wishes. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0191par0918	Thank you. So that the bill...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0193par0920	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0191par0921	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0193par0922	For the record, it is not for the Republican People's Party to consider insulting the MP of any party, especially the Minister. But Mr. Tanal asked a question himself, when he received the answer, Mr. Secretary, you're questioning people with the question, so he tried to accuse Mr. Tanal without answering the question. The word used by Mr. Tanal is the word "slaming" and does not include insults. Mr. Tanal has requested that the contents of the matter be disclosed in the House. Therefore, Mr. Tanal is being disrespectful, and we don't think it's right that he's being accused of the AKP lines here. We'd like that on the record.
tbmm-2018-03-22sit01spe0191par0923	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'd like to submit your votes to the amendments, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So our agenda is complete. Since there is no other topic on our agenda, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (March 27, 2018) to hold preliminary talks on general discussion and parliamentary research. It closes for the meeting at 00, and I wish you all good nights, and good weekends, and blessed Regaip's Night -- and we've finished today in one session.
