tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, on behalf of the government, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, on behalf of the National Defence Minister, on the second part of Article 59 of the Interior Charter, has a request for a statement concerning Operation Olive Dalı, which was carried out by Turkish Armed Forces in the northwestern part of Syria. I'll grant this request before it's on the agenda. After the Minister's statement, I will make a promise to political party groups at their request and to one of the non-group lawmakers. The deadlines are 20 minutes for the government, ten for political party groups, five for the non-group MP. Now, Mr. Canikli, I'd like to call Mr. Minister to the stand. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0002par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm here to inform you on behalf of our Supreme Assembly on behalf of our government about Operation Olive Dalli, which began on January 20, 2018 and entered the 11th day of today. I hereby salute the High Council. At the very beginning of my words, in this operation, I remember our heroes and all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. I ask my Lord to heal our soldiers who were wounded during the operation. May my Lord triumph over the army of the Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, as of today, it has become undisputed and very clear that the PYD/YPG is a terrorist organization with the Syrian arm of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). There's no hesitation about it. YPG/PYD is the Syrian arm of PKK terror organization. The PKK uses the same terrorist pool as Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The PYD-YPG/PKK terrorist group has settled north of Syria, changing the demographic structure along our borders. Here, under the control of terrorism in this region, they have accelerated their efforts to create a political structure and a state. In this framework, the threat of terrorism to our country is growing every day. In particular, this terrorist organization is heavily armed by the United States and is supported by the political terrorism in northern Syria. All methods have been tried to convince the United States of America to stop supporting this terrorist organization, but unfortunately the United States has not given up its policy. The aim of the terrorist organization is to eliminate the territorial integrity of our country. The terrorist organization aims directly at the independence and sovereignty of our country. Prior to Operation Olive Dalı, more than 700 have been attacked by the terrorist group nesting in Afrin (Afrin) and the area of the Battle of Turkey and the Fırat Shield and the observation points in the Idlib Tension Zone. Even that number reveals the magnitude of the threat in its entirety. The terrorist organisation is assimilationing peoples in the region and forcing them to emigrate. In this way, there are 3.5 million Syrian refugees in our country who have been cut off from their land. This is a factor that increases the security threat to our country. For all these reasons, Operation Olive branch is performed to protect the territorial integrity and independence of our country, to secure our borders and to protect the rights of our Syrian brothers. This struggle is an existential struggle for Turkey, our most natural right, and this struggle and the operation had to be done now. If this operation hadn't been launched last weekend, the terrorism would have continued to grow, trying to gain a political recognition internationally. Therefore, Operation Olive branch was no longer able to delay. If the operation hadn't been launched, Turkey would have faced much bigger problems in the near future, much greater costs would have been raised, Turkey would have had to pay enormous prices. Dear lawmakers, action is also legitimate and justified in terms of international law. The international legitimacy of the operation is based on the UN Security Council's decisions 1624, 2170 and 2178 to fight terrorism. In addition, the 51st article of the United Nations Convention gives our country the right to self-defense under the protection of territorial integrity. The operation is carried out along with the Free Syrian Army, the representative of our Syrian guests and the Syrian people in our country. Free Syrian Army forces, along with our Mehmetchik, are fighting heroically to rid the terrorists of their territory. The Free Syrian Army is the Syrian army's representative, supported by Turkey, and has become flesh and blood. In this framework, it is ignorance to describe the Free Syrian Army as a terrorist. Such a description is an insult to the Turkish nation, the Turkish Armed Forces. The YPG, those who can't identify PYD as terrorists, those who can't say it; those who cry to YPG, NYD, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) are unfortunately trying to defame Turkish Armed Forces through the Free Syrian Army. Recognising the Free Syrian Army as a terrorist means giving the terrorist organizations a bonus, and speaking with the mouth of a terrorist organization. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, from the beginning of the operation, the necessary international steps have been taken with precision, and the international community has been informed at its time. In this regard, UN and NATO officials were notified in writing shortly after the operation began. Also, countries of the United Nations Security Council are informed of the operation on the same day, including countries of permanent membership in the United Nations Security Council and countries of interest, especially Iran. The Russian Federation already has close cooperation with the Federation. Diplomatic channels are constantly describing the importance of this operation in terms of legal legitimacy, safety and stability in the region. We see and watch with pleasure that the international community understands our rights. There have been statements from many countries supporting our fight against terrorism, Turkey's right to self-defense has been handed over. Dear lawmakers, the operation we have launched to rid Afrin (Afrin) of terrorists, to prevent the formation of the hall of terror, to reintegrate peace and stability in the region, goes on as planned and successfully as planned. The operation is carried out along with the Free Syrian Army, our Syrian brothers, the main element of our Turkish Armed Forces and the region. Dear lawmakers, the terrorist organization has shown its bloody face once again after the beginning of the operation. They attack vulnerable people with cannons and rocket launches against innocent civilians, attacking mosques, businesses, streets, housing and civilian citizens. In this framework, Operation Olive branch is being carried out very carefully. In particular, without civilian casualties, the action was carried out with this precision, including time plans. In fact, the Turkish army's sincere approach and implementation of civilian casualties has been seen in Operation Fırat Shield. There's hardly any civilian casualties in this operation. The civilian casualties of the Turkish Armed Forces are too high to be in any army. See, in Syria, 917 civilians have died as a result of the bombing of coalition countries. This number is the official number of the coalition. In fact, civilian casualties occur during the coalition's work, and the casualties in Syria during the work of coalition countries are far higher than that, but the official number is 917. Some see civilian casualties only as statistical information, and they accept it that way, while we always, at any time, act on the sensitivity to civilians. So far, there have been no civilian casualties from our Turkish Armed Forces or the Free Syrian Army. If we didn't have a sensitivity to civilians, a concern, no doubt, this action would be completed in 15 days at the latest. Therefore, the timing of the action must be seen as a reflection of our extreme sensitivity to civilians in particular. The terrorist organization has begun to use civilians as human shields, as it has always done. In fact, despite the fact that there are no civilian casualties despite these difficult circumstances, despite the terrorist organization's policy to use civilians as human shields, so to date, the lack of civilian casualties in the operation reveals the Turkish nation's sincerity and sensitivity in this matter. It's part of our legacy that we inherited from our history. As in Operation Firat Shield, disintegrations are being conducted from false social media platforms and accounts to prevent civilians from being harmed. The organisation, particularly in the Western public, is trying to boost its support and create perceptions against Turkey, but their lies are soon deciphered and shared with the world. These scenarios are actually being staged, not just abroad, but inside. The terrorist supporters within us have unfortunately made statements supporting the terrorist organization, sharing lies and slanders about the bombing of civilians with the public. Operation Olive branch is being conducted against terrorists abroad, while it is also being fought against their collaborators and supporters inside. Whatever position or position, anyone who eats the bread of this nation, takes advantage of the resources of this country and betrays this nation will be punished under the rule of law. Those who try to make antipropaganda with their so-called peace talks and discredit operations should not be in vain, the poison they spill will harm them. Operation Olive Branch is only against terrorists and their shelters, shelters, positions, weapons, tools and equipment; there are no civilian casualties. In the villages and settlements that have been rescued from terror because of this sensitivity, the region welcomes and embraces our troops. In addition, our brothers and sisters in the region are given all kinds of humanitarian help. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are asking from time to time: how long is this operation going to last? The answer to this question is very clear, and the operation will continue until the region is completely wiped out of terrorism. The operation will not end until terror is fully cleared and is no longer a threat to our country. There's no other way. Again, they ask: "What will you do with the land that has been cleansed from the terrorists, and who will you give it to?" In fact, the answer to that question is clear, what we have done here in areas that have been rescued by Operation Fırat Shield, in areas that have been cleansed of terrorism, so that the people of the region who have left their land will return to their homes first. In this way, we estimate that many of the Syrian refugees in Turkey will return to the Afrin region. After that, local governments will be formed from the people in the region and the people will run themselves, Turkey will take measures that will help them in the process, provide support for them in education, health, infrastructure, other areas, and Turkey will ensure their own safety. In the end, the zones to be purged of terror will be handed over to the Syrian government, which will take over democratically in the framework of Syrian territorial integrity and political unity and will represent the entire Syrian people. Dear lawmakers, the operation is being carried out successfully as planned. So far, at least 649 terrorists have been neutralized since the beginning of the operation. We call it the least because these are terrorists who have been identified, and we estimate that this number is much greater. The 458 targets used as a terrorist shelter, shelter, ammunition depot, and weapons deployment have been destroyed by our Air Force. As part of ground operations, 4,370 targets are under fire. So far, we have 29 martyrs from our Turkish Armed Forces, 24 of whom are members of the SSO, and once again I ask my Lord for his mercy. Dear lawmakers, our NATO ally, the United States of America, unfortunately continues to take steps that are incompatible with the spirit of alliance. The PYD, YPG, which he has partnered with against DEAS terrorism, is not ending its collaboration with the PKK. After the DEA threat has been eliminated, they insist on ending it on every platform, even though they said they would end the interim and tactical relationship between the United States and the PYD. It's a sad and terrible mistake. Today, from this point of view, we're at the end of the line. We're at the point where words are written on sand. Unfortunately, the words don't matter or believable, so now we've started the operation, we've started it. However, the borders of Turkey are basically the limits of NATO. With this operation, we also protect NATO borders against the threat of terrorism. Our ally, the United States, is taking steps to further endanger the borders when the security of NATO borders should be maintained. We've all been through the footage from Rakka. Coalition forces simply watched the scene. Look, those who are trying to build a hall of terror in order to fight the so-called DEASH are now in line with DEASH against Operation Olive Dalli. And from different regions of Syria, the DEAS terrorists are now being brought to Afrin, by the PYD-YPG, to fight against the Turkish Armed Forces and the ESO. As we have seen in Rakka, today, in the operation of Afrin, we understand and see that the PKK, the KCK, the NYD, the YPG, the DEAŞ, and the DEA are all non-different terrorist organizations and terrorist networks. We knew all this before and we were actually saying it. We know who's hand is in whose pocket, we know what's in the back tables, we know what's in it, what's in it for us, what's in it for us, what's in it for us, what's in it for us. So we're doing our own work, and we're gonna keep doing it. Operation Firat Shield was liberated and the El Bab region was liberated. In the field of operations, 100,000 Syrian brothers returned to the land. Now it's time for Afrin, and hopefully we'll rid the place of terror too, so don't worry. We don't have eyes on any government land, property, resources. The inheritance left to us is not to lay hands on the poor or the innocent. In our glorious history, there is no concept or practice called colonialism. We welcome the oppressed nations, the innocents, the civilians who flee the war more and more, we continue to open it, no matter what anyone says. Look, the organisation is subject to ethnic and ideological cleanness not only to Arabs and Turks but also to Syrian Kurds who do not submit to it in places where the PYD-PKK has taken control of the terrorist organization. Therefore, more than 300,000 Syrian Kurdish brothers from Syria who have taken refuge in our country are now welcome on our land. Dear lawmakers, any logistical support our Turkish Armed Forces, our military need in this operation, other... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a few minutes to complete it?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0003par0042	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0002par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. With all the logistical support our army needs, all measures have been taken to ensure that other goods and services can be met quickly. There is excellent harmony between headquarters and the front. No logistics or supply problems exist. Our President is already directly in command of the operation as commander-in-chief. An important feature of Operation Olive Branch is that there is an operation that is highly developed and used by highly developed military weapons, vehicles, and ammunition. If we hadn't achieved the capacity of nationality and domesticity in weapons, ammunition and other equipment that we're experiencing today, we certainly wouldn't have been able to carry on this operation. We have the capacity to produce almost all of the ammunition used in the operation by local means. Our national attack helicopter, T-129, is the first time our attack helicopter has been deployed in a cross-border operation and is continuing its mission.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0004par0047	Mr. Secretary, please complete. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0002par0049	Again, domestic and national production javelin missiles are used during this mission. Our national drones, equipped with new technologies that we have developed in Operation Olive Branch, are also on duty in Afrin. Multi-barreled rocket launchers produced by Machine Chemicals, our Storm Obuses are on duty again. I don't go into details, but especially the bombs of smart and guided ammunition used by our F16 are made 100 percent domestically and nationally by Machine Chemicals by ASELSAN, and they're being shot and destroyed with the clever and motivated ammunition that we've created underground bunkers with these national possibilities. In action on land, porcupine vehicles -- highly territorial -- are extremely successful with armoured hedgehogs. Again, the MPT, our national infantry rifle, continues to be a source of great confidence and pride. And our stockpile of ammunition, valuable lawmakers, as of today, is enough ammunition not only for Afrin, but for the entire region to be wiped out of terrorists. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One last sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0004par0052	Please finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0002par0054	Dear MPs, we're not going to invade Afrin. We're going to rescue Afrin. Just as with the Fırat Shield, Afrin will be wiped out of terrorist organizations and will become a habitable place for our Syrian brothers and sisters, the operation will continue until the last terrorist is destroyed. We have to do this operation. We have to eliminate and destroy these terrorist organizations from our borders, wherever the YPG, the PKK, the DEAS terrorists are threatening our country, wherever they are, whether in the east or in the west or in the north or whoever they are keeping business with them in the south or wherever they are. We have to, we have to, we have to, we have to, we have to, we have to. We are doomed for this, for the nation, for the flag, for the country, for the state, for the oppressor. This struggle is the Turkish nation's struggle for independence, the battle for beka. At such times, everyone is witness to the epics of the Turkish nation. In Afrin, the Turkish Armed Forces will once again write an epic story. With these thoughts and feelings, we send greetings and prayers to our heroic soldiers and members of the S.E.S.O. May my Lord make them victorious, and let my Lord be his friends and his helpers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0005par0059	Thank you, Mr. Canikli. The first speaker on behalf of the group is Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Mr. Akçay, your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0006par0064	Mr. President, I've been promised by the National Defence Minister Nurettin Canikli, the National Movement Party Group, in connection with the information provided by Mr. Nurettin Canikli about Operation Olives. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, I wish our Turkish Armed Forces, our heroic army, and all of our Mehmets who have joined Operation Olive branch, to the utmost advantage, and on the eleventh day of this operation, it is clear that action is being carried out with great planning and precision. It is clear that the goal of the operation is to establish security first in the region, then peace and peace. Without security, there is no peace and quiet. This struggle is a back fight. This action is made to ensure the safety of our people, brothers and sisters, who live in the north of Syria, and to free them from terror organizations. This action is for the security of Istanbul, Ankara, Hatay, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, Kilisin, Mersin, Kars, Tunceli, Diyarbakır, Nusaybin, allecution, our homeland and our region. The action is carried out by the right, authority and responsibility of international law. International law shows that this operation is not a choice, but a necessity. Turkey also fulfills its obligation. We are facing an immediate threat of terrorism from northern Syria to our country, becoming a security and beka problem. The number of terrorist abuses and attacks that have been launched against our country in the last year from the Afrin-based region has reached 700. In a painting such as this, Turkey is carrying out Operation Olive Branch as part of its right to self-defense against terrorism. This right is considered the most important exception to the ban on using force in all international law texts related to the United Nations, particularly. According to Article 51 of the United Nations Treaty, if a state is targeted by an armed attack, it is entitled to individual or common legal defence. In fact, it's a right in the nature of things. When someone attacks you, you intervene to protect yourself. On the other hand, self-defense... if you're facing a big, close and predictable threat... you have the right to avoid it... by taking self-defense countermeasures. In our southern border, the siege of Turkey with the corridor of terror is a great, close and foreseeable threat. Another important point is that today many states recognize the international organisations as a terrorist organization. If you look at the terrorist inventory of the YPG, or SDG, you'll see the same names. The transport and management of the terrorists in Syria is held in Kandil. Again, let us consider the legitimacy of international law. Three UN Security Council resolutions stand out on this issue. In 2005, decisions number 1624, 2170 and 2178 were important in 2014. Decision 1624 states that fighting international terrorism is the obligation of every state. The decision 2170 states that terrorism of all sorts constitutes one of the most important threats to international peace and security, and that every act of terrorism, regardless of the time and whoever it is carried out, constitutes a crime. Decision 2178 highlights the need to address the conditions leading to the spread of terrorism. After all, this action is also legal in terms of international law, right, necessary. Dear lawmakers, in the first place in this operation, targeting Afrin is a political, strategic and geopolitic requirement. Afrin is 22km away from Turkey; it is the most important place of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to take over after Kandil. As of the 1990s, Afrin was the transit base for the terrorist organization's terrorist attack on Hatay, Osmaniye, Kilis, Gaziantep and Kahramanmarash, and for the terrorists nested in Amanos, it was considered a stepping stone for the Afrin terrorist organization. Afrin is the gateway of the terror corridor, the siege of terror, to the Mediterranean. Dear MPs, Operation Olive Dalli is the continuation of the relentless campaign of terror in the countryside and in the city, the Operation El Bab. The operation will have other strategic consequences. First of all, there is a war fought by imperialist forces in Syria. This operation guarantees that Turkey cannot be ignored in the future of our neighbour, Syria. This action, which aims to preserve Syria's territorial integrity, will also strengthen the right to speak at the table with the Fırat Shield. Second, action shows that Turkey will exercise its legal right to defend against threats from across the border with strong will and force. Thirdly, beyond our borders, the perception that Turkey could not step forward without particularly allowing some forces has been nullified and destroyed. The fourth and political significance of the operation is that the puppet government, which is intended to be based on Afrin, is prevented from being born, just as it was in Kerkuk. Starting with Afrin, it is necessary to remove the terror elements of the region between El Bab to the east, then Menbic to the northeast, and Cerablus to the north. We've done an operation on El Bab. Again, we were at Cerablus under the Barrier Shield. Again, now Afrin is being properly intervened. The next step is Menbic, a strategic and geopolitical imperative. This area is the center of Turkey's security belt against the threat of terrorism along the southern border of about 1,400km. The security generation against the terror belt is a security generation provided by Turkey. An important part of this security generation is Syrian territory, located east of Fırat. This area is one of the most important areas we have to pay attention to in the fight against terrorism. These areas have been rehabilitated by PYD-YPG-American hands. Turkey's security will be ensured that all areas east and west of Fırat are cleared of terror. Afrin, this is the beginning of the matter. But what is more critical than Afrin is Menbic, and what is more critical than Menbic is the east of Firat. Operation Olive Branch will be insufficient to assess strategically only through military analysis. Another important aspect of the matter is communication. In this framework, some of the issues that we benefit from attention include: First, the importance and legitimacy of action at the human and security level must continue to be brought to the attention of the public over and over again. The PKK-YPG has been dealt with in the region, and the continuity and dimensions of PKK terrorism must be repeatedly presented to public attention.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0007par0077	Finish up, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0006par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Second, it should be stressed that the removal of Syria's north from terrorism will also encourage the return of Syrian refugees. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the National Movement Party, are one and the same in this struggle with the Republic of Turkey, the nation, the government. Our duty here is to protect our national unity and unity in an unwavering and unwavering way. Turkey is an iron fist wrapped in velvet gloves, that's how it's known. We remember our heroes who died in action with mercy and gratitude, wishing our wounded a speedy recovery. Blessed be Turkey's strength, its presence, its security, its future and its future. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0008par0083	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. On behalf of People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım, Your time is ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0009par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have left behind the days when, as a whole, the Middle East, and in private, our country has passed the test of morality, conscience, pacifism, or stealing war tampons. We're at the next threshold. We're going through the days of being human. It's just that we're going through the days of the human life and blood of political delusions. From our point of view, are we now dealing with a much more profound process of war, invasion, whether or not it's a cute organization, or whether it's an invasion, or whether we're going to save civilians, whether civilians are dying or not? Where's Afrin? Who has existed throughout history in Afrin? Afrin must be known that he was conquered by the great Kurdish commander Saladdin Ayyubi in 1190, just three years after Jerusalem. It has been a common home of Kurds, Turks, Arabs, Armenians, Suryans, Muslims, Christians, and Ezidis, for nearly nine centuries. It is the safe haven of those who have suffered in other parts of Syria, where they have all lived uninterruptedly today, from the day the civil war broke out in Syria until February 2011, where there was no conflict, where the weapon had not been used, in other parts of Syria, and who were trapped in the conflict. Why would we target such an island of peace? The answer needs to be answered correctly, and it needs to be discussed with the historical context of the process. When the First Innu, Second Innu, Kütahya, Eskişehir, Sakarya Square Battles are given, will we act by forgetting the fact that Afrinian Kurds still exist and fight in Inönu, Kütahya, Sakarya? And since the Treaty of Ankara with the French drew the border between Syria and Turkey on October 20th, was the direction of the Kurds there facing Turkey, along with their brothers, their families, their tribes, or were they facing another part of the world, and if we remove it from the context of war today, we can easily go on and on. What does it say, Mr. Secretary? The purpose of this is the operation to the border security and terrorist organization. And we immediately added that we had serious dialogues with the United States. You built it with Russia, with Damascus, with Tehran, with many countries of Europe; you did not build it with one community and their political will; you did not try to communicate with one Kurd, you did not think. Since 2011, have a stone been thrown from Afrin to Turkey, let alone a rocket, let alone a bomb, let alone a bullet? Since the day this operation has been launched in Afrin, which has been going on for 11 days -- a war that has been under order -- in this country -- to cover up some of the mistakes that the government has uncovered, to forget, and to back up the opposition -- outside of our party -- to help herself in line, the government has decided to overlook the state that he had put this country into. The war was created so that women's suicides and murders would not be seen, so that no more talk of the 115 children being pregnant, or the people in front of the hunger assembly, or the people who burned themselves, or the people who suffered from hunger, poverty, unemployment, or unemployment, would not be seen. That's what this war means for us. The demographic structure was changing; the demographic structure, right, changed. Do you know how it changed? Turkishmen, Arab brothers, Armenians, Ezidi, Keldani brothers, who were attacked in other parts of Syria after 2013 in Afrin, where 180,000 Kurds lived together as brothers, changed demographics. Dear friends, we have opposed the war, and we will continue to fight. As we oppose the Persian-Iraq War, as we oppose the Afghanistan War, we will oppose this war as we oppose Bosnia, Ossetia, Crimea, Gulf War. So you want to make our party pay for it, their organization? Do you want to make this country's moral and honor-responsive civil society organizations, unions, trade rooms, political operations to pay the price? The people of this country will never feed or support the war for a moment. There's no border security here. If a little dialogue is established, you know much better than we do with the experience you've had in the past when Turkey would become a powerful actor in Syria. There's only one reason for the war that's been uncovered here: the power prevents the appearance of a psychology that has made the country uninhabitable. Now, I'm asking you -- civilians don't die -- for three days, there's going to be a 120-plane check-up, bombs falling on settlements and relatives, what it's like, when you see a bomb fall from a plane, when you see a civilian, when you see a gun being fired at random, when you see a gun being shot at, and you don't know if a gun was created, and we don't know? Here's UNICEF -- without commenting on it ourselves -- saying 11 children died on the seventh day, the London-based Syrian Human Rights Observatory says 42 people died, Syria's official news agency SANA 86 civilians died; I'm not saying it, it's not ours, it's not ours. Again, dear friends, look, in spite of all the media operations, the media that have been pooled and left out of the pool, and all the members of the Medical Union Central Council are still being detained in this war by digesting all special war devices, if they are still being detained today, if people are being operated because of peace sharing on social media, it shows how much legitimacy this government has experienced in this war, and how much it has failed to explain to the international public and its own public. Otherwise, why else would they still be raiding vocational rooms after all this opportunity? Why is there a seven-hour search there today? Why do doctors operate when their job is to protect people's health, defend and execute their right to live? It's about the problem of legitimacy in this business and the inability to get involved. S.E.S.A. cocktail is an organization. Open from the beginning, it has no real estate, no structure, just a little bit from all international agencies and international experts; it has everything in it. The 12-year-old Palestinian boy, Nureddin Zengi, who cut off Abdullah Ihsan, has the Nureddin Zengi brigade in him. There's Ahrar al-Sham, the derivative of al-Sham, which you can bless, we're not going to bless such an organization, we're not going to bring it in and see it as a component of this state that sits on the axis of a thousand years of brotherhood, and whoever wants to see it can see it. If the jihadist still poses for the Akit newspaper and the pool media in order to lead this operation, as Muslim Hosani is still in the middle of a number of murders that they have committed with logic, we will not be a party to this sin, we will not be a party to it. If it is intended to be paid, we will not refuse to pay a price for peace and for the sake of the brotherhood of the people who live in this country and for the sake of the brotherhood of the peoples. War is not an arcade game, war is more an addiction, war is a compromise, war is a moral failure, war is a black hole, war is a black hole that takes away everything, takes away our lives, takes away our property, takes away our morals, takes away everything, takes away the conscience, takes away everything; puts dynamite under the bridges of historical brotherhood, takes away everything. In that sense, we are not part of this operation. He said the House was supposedly vacationed for the semester two weeks ago, members of the government. Now we know why you're on vacation, and let's just say this. The Afrin People's Assembly, which you see there as a terrorist, is not considered a terrorist by Damascus, let alone Washington, Moscow, Tehran. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm sorry, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0010par0101	Go ahead and complete it, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0009par0102	Once, the political structures that he had on him were not considered terrorists by the Damascus regime, but once a war was decided, the reasons for that war were set in motion. We said it, we'll say it again and we'll keep saying it. Look, dear friends, it must never be forgotten that in the event of dialogue with the Kurds there, it is impossible to understand what kind of brotherhood would be and what kind of actor this country would be in the Middle East, and yet it is still being done. And do you go there to invade, or do you go there temporarily? The Home Secretary gave me the answer to that. Why is Mare assigned to be a trustee and a police commissioner? How do you get a subsidiary to a temporary place, a resident, and how do you get a police commissioner there? I'm just saying, let them come up with an answer from here, so that all of our peace-loving people, along with the entire international community, will know. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0010par0105	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz... Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0011par0110	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, esteemed MPs, I salute the High Council. There's talk of Operation Afrin. We have complete faith that our heroic army will successfully complete the operation. Our party's opinion, Mr. President, was shared with the public on the first day of the operation. Our party saw the operation as a national security issue and supported it and continues to support it. Of course, the issue of Syria must be brought up on this occasion. Why did he come here? What happened? Why did this happen? Was there any other way out before we got here? Haven't they been tested? They need to be calculated well. Now, for one thing, first of all, there are unfair and provocative statements to our party about the operation. Mr. President and our party have supported this operation from the very beginning, but we do not accept it as an operation by a country, not as an operation by a state, but as an operation by the political party, the accusations facing our party in the county, county congresses are inappropriate and we do not accept them. Now, let's just say that playing with the image of the Republican People's Party, questioning the image of a party that built this country, no one should have the right or the limit. It's called the national army. We have one national army, which is the Turkish Armed Forces. (HPP) We never see the SOS as a national army. Look, I'd like to redo a historical warning here: this is going to be trouble for our government. These will give you trouble in the future. We get insulted when we say it, but we have to tell the truth. They were mixed with hate speech-pushing groups, who fought bloody wars there for years, and we know all about it. The truth is clear. Nobody hide the truth. From jihadist groups, radical groups, no one should hope for help. They are enemies to all the people there, whether they are Turks or Kurds or Arabs or Yazidi or Armenians. These come from a selefi tradition. It shouldn't be our job to defend them. Sir, a S.O.S.A.L.A. is leaving. What if my hero soldier needed the SOC? What's that got to do with anything? You, on the one hand, have worn him out half with the plague, and now you're wearing him out with the pain of SOC. I have the right to say that. This is a subject that everyone in the Republic of Turkey will regret tomorrow. There's no point in that, let's be clear. Now, sir, let's just say, why are we here? Why did we come here? In Syria, we tried to change regimes. Someone gave us gas. Iran is very active, it supports Assad in Damascus, Assad is active, Hezbollah in Lebanon, and Hezbollah is active, he supports Hamas in Palestine. What do we do? So, let's cut this arm. Who should we cut it to? Let's cut between Damascus and Ankara. Who should we have it done? We had to make Assad's best friend do it, and they made him do it. Then the plans were set up. I personally know that the plans for Syria in this period were heavier than the plans for World War II, the massacre of mankind. Today, nearly a million people died, 11 million people moved, 5 million people became refugees and one trillion dollars in economic losses. How do we get out of this Syrian business? What's it supposed to be? I'm sure Operation Afrin will be over in three days, five days, ten days, twenty days, and then what? How will we gather Syria? What's the plan here? What do we want to do? Do we want to form a separate state in Syria, north of Syria? What do we want to do if we don't want to build a state? Why are we taking so many risks? You need to know that. Now, sir, let's just say that right now there is no way out of Syrian strategy for you. Our Minister talked about the operation, so we listened. We have no doubt of the safety and success of our operation, but what will you do about Syria? Now, you have acted with America, sir, and the Americans have supported the SSO. See, they're sneaking around in the U.S.A., too. They're talking to Qatar, they're seeing Saudi Arabia, they're seeing him, they're seeing him, they're seeing him. How can you trust them? How confident can we be of these things? How can we show them in front of the Turkish soldier? How can we present a Turkish soldier as a substitute for them? Where are we really, where are we standing? Now, look, these have been supported by all those groups and countries. We were drawn a strategy to act with America, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar (Katar) for a long time. What's happening now? Now that it's over, this time we're going with Iran and Russia. Rest assured, in less than ten days, the strategy with Russia and Iran will be over, because you have no strategy, there is no strategy for this country, Ankara has no plan with itself; we are going after it all the time. We're going after America, we're being deceived by Saudi Arabia. Wow, the traitors have deceived us. Qatar has turned away, Iran has deceived us, Russia will deceive us tomorrow. Don't we have a strategy in our own foreign policy? Wouldn't we have a plan for the people of this region, their people, all the vast Middle East? Wouldn't we have a strategy to keep this geography together? Don't we have any strategy to keep all ancient peoples together, to at least support them, to strengthen our sovereignty, our national security, but to strengthen people? We don't have anything. Other countries are doing something, we're going after it. How far will we go? What kind of national security is this? Won't the understanding that puts this army at the same price as the SOCists, we've been tricked here tomorrow. Isn't that what he's going to say? This is a historic talk: we say to watch out for the SOS, and tomorrow you will be in trouble. Sir, they're saying that because we say that: "Yahu is complaining about us to Europe." Look, he is drawing attention to us. We are saying this because you have taken him with you, or because we tell you so, you will not take him with you. It's happening backwards. And tomorrow, unfortunately, these groups will be spraying the area with blood. I'm on the side of radical jihadist groups, and I'm on the side as a person. I know what kind of shit they're in. Whose hand is in whose pocket? They're going after whoever's giving them the money, whoever's doing a little bit of them, the intelligence agencies... they've got it all, the intelligence agencies have it. They show with you at the front, in the hands of America, in the hands of Russia, in the hands of Iran, and in the hands of other organizations. It's wrong to make them part of an army, it's wrong to wear out the Turkish army. It's already worn out, our intel is worn out, our bureaucracy is worn out, everything is worn out. As if it wasn't enough, as if we needed it... the Turkish army doesn't need anyone here. He's capable of carrying out this operation with his own ability and ability. It's wrong to make a presentation as if we were weak, we needed it, but without them, it's wrong, and we're repeating that mistake. I'll tell you two things about Syria: right now, the issue is going back to Geneva, where decisions will be made at this Sochi meeting. Whatever you do, form a team. Let's get this team on line. Look, you will be excluded from Geneva. Russia has moved back to America on that platform. He will blame you. America doesn't trust you anyway. Whatever you do, form a group. Gather all the elements in Syria, all the elements here. Be tidy, tidyer, not separatist. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0012par0127	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0013par0132	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to inform the government of Operation Afrin Olives. In fact, I think it's come to a point where, in fact, some questions need to be asked and they need to be answered absolutely. Look, as a Kurd, it doesn't really matter, as a Turk, as a Zaza, as an Arab, what's the harm in defending the integrity of the Republic of Turkey, defending the right to self-defense and defending the right to use it to eliminate the dangers of terror organizations that may lead to Turkey? I really think that question needs to be asked. What could be more natural than us all wanting to own this country, this country? A lot of the things that have just been alleged to be wrong, I don't think they're really based on anything solid. Just a moment ago, Mr. Ahmet Yıldırım entered into the Middle East, spoke of the Middle East, and actually led me to hope a little bit, and I was hopeful. I said: I suppose they'll look out the big window this time. But once again, I'm disappointed, Ahmet Bey, I'm sorry, I have to tell you. Look, for at least a hundred years in this region, in the Middle East, for all kinds of material gains, for oil, for gas, for Africa, just as they exploited Asia, Central America, and South America, I think it's important to make it clear to my citizens, my brothers, my young people, that they should be able to respond to the imperial forces who have come to exploit the Middle East as well as to exploit the Middle East. What kind of politics is it, especially in recent years, to remain indifferent, insensitive to the developments of the Arab Spring process, to not realize the danger that has come to us from under our noses? I think it's a big oversight to consider the developments in the Middle East today, North Africa, even in the Gulf, in Qatar, independent of Turkey, that Turkey is not targeted, that Turkey has nothing to do with it. Believe me, I would have called it conspiracy theory if I hadn't heard it from a Westerner in my own ears two months before the incident. We're Europeans and Middle Easterners. We strive to be part of the European Union with our Muslim identity. We're not hiding it, and neither is the European Union. We're the only Muslim country that wants to be a member of the European Union and conducts negotiations. Therefore, we cannot be indifferent to any developments in the Middle East. This is also essential to Europe. Unfortunately, Europe often chooses to ignore this fact and criticize Turkey and especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, at every opportunity, and worst of all, these inconsistencies are supported by some political elements within the country. I hope they see these facts as soon as possible and turn away from them. Politically, as we care about European capitals, political centers, London, Berlin, Paris, we also have to give much importance to the Middle East. Because, like others, we don't think of oil or gas or materiality, we think of Mecca, then Medina-i Münevvere, and then Jerusalem-i Sheriff comes to us. Between these and Europe, the only country on earth that will bridge the Vatican with them is the Republic of Turkey. For him, the Republic of Turkey is not a country where evil forces can move pencils and write scripts, it can't, and it won't, by God's leave. The issue here -- as a citizen of the Kurdish-rooted Republic of Turkey -- is always perceived by our dear friends as a phenomenon against Kurds, as if it were an act of action, and is tried to be imposed in this way. Again, Mr. Ahmet said something nice, actually, that the SOC was a cocktail organization, but for God's sake, which of these terrorist organizations right under our noses isn't a cocktail organization? A God-damn DAEŞ... look, we're all falling into the same error; we're all doing a wrong perception operation on the concept of Islam, on what the Westerner wants to do, on what the Westerner wants to do, without fully grasping, without fully understanding, without fully grasping. Now, the situation of DAEŞ, which you come from many parts of the world, all the way from Australia, and you call that "coctide organization" here, is doing nothing but slandering Islam, forcing Islam and Muslims, and for those who use it, it's a very feasibility organization for their fathers, for their fathers. That's the extent of the job, the purpose. When we ask Western countries, well, why... there's the YPG dimension, and that's the same cocktail organization. When we look at the structure of the YPG, there are people from many countries around the world, from Europe, fighting here. What is European, British, American, German doing here? You have to question that, of course. Now, when we ask Western countries about this, they call them secularists. Why do you support it, why do you side with it? When we say they're secularists. For God's sake, what does this have to do with Kurdishism? Now, the Western sheath is ready, like I said. What secularism are we talking about? Now, there's a famous French term, "passe-partout," which is also a comic magazine in its day. We're talking about a black humor, so it's a passe-partout, which goes all over the place, so to speak, to us, in Turkish, the monkey. Like DAEŞ now, it's an all-powerful organization, like a lock pick, but it's come to a point when its masters tell it to stand aside. We've seen this very recently, and we've seen organizations that don't touch each other, that say, "Get over here." Now, especially with the recent Kurdish movement, I want to make a point on the Kurdish movement, I want to make a point. You know, the recent Kurdish movement has found a spot on a completely left ground, has found a basis for a left ideology, and in the first step out, you know -- something that we can all actually support, appreciate -- can we watch a movement against the imperial forces? But unfortunately, in the latest Kobani process, we're also talking about a movement that has come to the Obama process, where we've all lived together, where we've come from. Unfortunately, here is the greatest danger of imperialism today. The most important thing I want to draw attention to here is this issue of imperialism. I'm not saying it's Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Zaza, but all of us, as citizens of the Republic of Turkey, we need to take a very serious stand on this particular danger of imperialism at the bottom of our door. Now, of course, it's only natural for such an action to be carried out at the moment of threat to the integrity and security of the country. It's an answer to the imperial forces' sense of division, fragment, governance. Look, it's a glorious and honorable stand against those who have fought against each other for centuries, who, at a time when they are united under the European Union today and have the power to divide as much of Muslim geography as possible in the world as possible, have launched new maps. This has been granted to the Republic of Turkey and its leader, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogana -- thank God very much. The solution to problems is unity. Serving the purposes of the imperial forces will do nothing but increase the pain. Of course, it's a matter of being a terrorist organization. In fact, I would like to celebrate the Republican People's Party here in one way -- today, here, Turkey's only national army is the Republic of Turkey's army -- what is the need for terrorism, not the terrorist organization? I also appreciate that it has reached that point, but, of course, I want to mention one more issue here: I also want to talk about the precious Hurriyet columnist Ahmet Hakan. I've been keeping a close eye on him, and he's given up on CHP tactics from time to time, but I'm sure he'll soon give up on that tactic, too, because I'm sure he'll soon give up hope. Now, imagine, a people, millions of people, running away from a tyrant, looking for shelter at the very end of Europe... He's being pushed around, he's drowning, he's dying, God forbid, he's being raped. Now, the Republic of Turkey extends its hand to help these people in a way that the enemy appreciates, and it does its best to bring them back safely. So, just like Operation Fırat Shield -- here's Cerablus, here's El Bab -- thanks to Turkey, now, hopefully, after Operation Olive Branch, our Syrian brothers will go back there, but here, as Ahmet Hakan said, unfortunately, there's a politician coming out, saying, "When Turkish soldiers are fighting -- these are spying on young girls on the beaches, and what are they doing here?" Someone at work, unfortunately says, "They're going to go to war here, they're putting their hands under the stone, they're putting their hands under the stone, they're going to terrorist organization, they're developing it themselves." Of course, it was an argument that no one would have thought of, but I think it was an operation to change an agenda. I hereby send my regards to Ahmet Hakan, of course, again from here.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0014par0148	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0013par0149	As I said, he will soon, I'm sure, stop giving the CHP tactics. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs who have come to this day, and to our wounded, an urgent cure. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0015par0153	Thank you, Mr. Gülpınar.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0016par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0015par0155	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0016par0156	I don't want to be teased, but I'd like a very short word from my position.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0015par0157	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0016par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I listened carefully to Mr. Gülpınar. The Kurds we've had to hear so much lately are our brothers. He says, "Amenna, that's a good word." He said he was Kurd himself if it was really carried out... This has a simple logarithm, Mr. Gülpınar. What kind of brothers are Kurds? Is he a brother in this state, in this country, who can use the identity that God has given him? Is he a brother with the right of education? Is he a brother with the right of identity? Is he a brother with the right to protect his morality, his honor? If the brotherhood has a basis for these things, it's really a brother on the basis of equality, otherwise it's the brotherhood of rhetoric, the brotherhood of envy, the brotherhood of political propaganda. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0017par0164	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0018par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0017par0166	Mr. Secretary, there's a speech from a member of parliament who doesn't have a group, five minutes, and I'll promise you later. Mr. Aytun Çıray, MP of İzmir, asked for a word. Mr. Cherry, come in. You have five minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0019par0173	Dear members of the House, we salute you with love and respect. At this moment, we pray to the Turkish Armed Forces, who fight for their country and for their country with their lives, that we remember our martyrs with mercy, and that their success will continue forever. We were against the Syrian politics of the Justice and Development Party from the beginning. As I first passed by here, I distinctly remember saying: fixing the regime of Syria is not a matter of Turkey's nationality. We said that any martyr we would give away in a non-national matter of Turkey could have been killed. We warned him. But because of a political strategy, a minister who was said to have political depth -- if you ask me -- because of his political strategic shallowness, Turkey has been infected with Syria's scourge, and has been infected by following Hillary Clinton. Now, we stand behind the Turkish army to the end of our heroic sons. Today, in Syria, the Turkish army offers its lives to remove Turkey from the difficult situation in which the Justice and Development Party has been brought into Turkey with its wrong foreign policies and to collect Turkey and to deal with the problems that Turkey has entered into. Therefore, we cannot allow this great success of the Turkish army to be shared with a number of organisations, to collect this great achievement that it has done in Al-Bab, which it has now achieved in Afrin. You may be using this as military tactics, and if the commanders of the Turkish army approve of it, we have no objection to that, but if you compare an unknown organization like OSO to you Kuvacimilli, we will be hurt and hurt. This is unacceptable. It's just a matter of taking things as they are. Dear friends, we do not support the foreign policy of the Justice and Development Party. The reason we do not support it is because it is not national and it is not native. We advocate foreign policy, which is national and domestic, but it doesn't mean we're on the outside of the Justice and Development Party's foreign policy, which we don't accept. We stand beside Turkey's interests, national interests, and the Turkish nation, with no strings attached to the Turkish army. Dear friends, on the way here, we heard from the government's mouth that you were cooperating with Russia. As such, once this operation is over, again, according to information from our government sources, it will be removed, probably left to Syria, the original owner. We've just taken action against terrorist organizations such as the PYD, the PKK, the YPG, to deploy them there with false policies, and we're going to end it. Now, there was an incident that we were proud of, and we planted the Turkish flag on Mount Bursiya, and we rocked it. That makes us all proud. But I'm warning you now, that flag will never come down from there again, we'll follow it. You can't bring down a flag. I'm sure you'll all be sensitive about this, but you don't think differently of me. Finally, in this short time we want to tell you what the Good Party proposes: 1) America must be warned immediately, and it must be stopped from giving weapons to these terrorist organizations. 2) The sect must abandon foreign politics. 3) Foreign policy should be removed from being the instrument of domestic policy and election processes. 4) Our borders with Damascus must be protected by direct understanding of Assad. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0020par0187	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. Congressmans, the speakers have had some questions for Mr. Secretary of State, so the Minister has requested a brief answer to these questions. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0021par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all. Yes, in particular, does Turkey have a general strategy in the region? What plans do they have in the future regarding the SOO? There have been some questions like this. First of all, we need to point out that Turkey is a quarterback country today. Yes, Turkey is a quarterback; it is a country that can do that, and it can do that. The most concrete reflection of this is Operation Firat Shield (Operation of the olive branch). There's a project that wants to be imposed on the area. The project reshapes the political map of the region, including Turkey, and tries to shape it. After this project reached a certain stage, Turkey's intervention prevented it from being implemented in a way that might be against Turkey, which is being prevented. If Turkey wasn't a quarterback, this policy would have certainly been realized, implemented, and no one would have been able to stop it, just like in the past. From a country that has only been guided, guided, played the role that has been given to it, today Turkey has become able to intervene in any development -- at least in its region -- which does not correspond with its own national interests. Turkey also has a strategy, it has goals, certainly, and it's an operation to reflect on life, that's one. Second of all, the SOS: Look, haven't they always been told that the Syrians in Turkey are lying down, the Turkish soldiers are fighting for them in the field? They've been talked about, criticised, they've come to the public's agenda.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0022par0196	The Syrians here.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0021par0197	Here we are, our guests in Turkey... Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0023par0199	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0021par0200	Our Syrian guests in Turkey want to clean up our own land from terrorists, and we want to contribute, and so do we. What in God's name are you criticizing? They were told the opposite before, so let the Syrians save their own land. There, today, they're out too, and they're contributing to us, they're supporting us, we're walking together for the same purpose. So what's wrong with that?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0024par0201	The runners are backing you up?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0021par0202	And look, don't forget that the Free Syrian Army is a sign of the quarterback Turkey again, a reflection of it again, and that's how you have to read it. I can't get into too much detail, I can't get into too much detail.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0025par0203	They're gangs.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0024par0204	The ones who left their country?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0026par0205	Let's get a confidentiality decision and go into detail.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0025par0206	When did he become a collaborator?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0027par0207	But Turkey is definitely designing all of this, Turkey is building the game, and Turkey is running it right now.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0025par0208	You don't deal with gangs, you don't deal with gangs.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0027par0209	I mean, if she'd been otherwise... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...political formation in the region would be what some countries have been aiming for, and Turkey would have suffered a serious loss of land, Turkey would have been weakened, it would have lost its sovereignty, its independence greatly. So this struggle is the struggle for independence, so this struggle is the struggle for beka. And finally...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0028par0213	Please, finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0027par0214	Fighting is a struggle for independence, a struggle for beka. Finally, the Turkish Armed Forces are stronger today than ever. Yeah, look, Operation Firat Shield, Operation Afrin, Olive branch, is a very complex and complex operation. And it's also supported by many countries in the world, we know that. That's where we're dealing with terrorist organizations, terrorist elements. And shortly after July 15th attempted treason, Turkey was able to successfully operate Operation Firat Shield with the Turkish Armed Forces, and after July 15th, there was a serious departure in the Turkish Armed Forces' administration, exports were involved, especially on the command level, and despite that, it succeeded in that operation, the border operations and the cross-border operations. As they got rid of their weights, as they got rid of the traitors, the Turkish Armed Forces became stronger, any... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not a problem, it's one of the world's most powerful armies today. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0029par0222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0030par0223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0029par0224	Dear Private...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0030par0225	I have a request for my position, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0029par0226	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0030par0229	Mr. President, it is a failure for the people who created this in every election, but it is not only a failure for the government to create the revolution, it is a failure for the government. And what you're doing today is not what it used to be. It's not what it used to be. It's not what it used to be. It's what you're saying. In addition, Turkey went to bring peace to the island in the past, for example, to all the embargo threats and all the Western forces against which the US took the lead during the Cyprus campaign, despite all their imperial pressures, to bring peace to the island.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0029par0231	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0030par0232	After bringing peace to the island, after securing the trust of the Turkish community there, Karaoğlan Bjevit, the third president of the Republican People's Party, who had discovered the status quo there today, had literally stripped away the Ataturk nationalism that you once boasted of trampling under the Beşparmak Mountains of Cyprus. It's very painful to say that the interests of Turkey, which are being directed from the West, that you can't play with the people who were here before you, that you're making it difficult for all of us, the state of the Republic of Turkey, but you're embarrassing the state of Turkey more than you are today. For your information.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0029par0235	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0236	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0029par0237	Mr. Secretary, just a minute, just from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0240	Of course, there's no concrete government, no government here, nothing like that.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0032par0241	Make it concrete, make it concrete. Consistent, let him answer. I said the part about myself.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0242	But look, it's not about the A-party, the B-party, the manager thing. Here's the thing...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0032par0243	No, who are you referring to as before us, who are you referring to? Which republic government?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0244	Look, let me try to explain. I mean, in the past tense, we've always had the shape of our relationships and the way of our relationships, you know, how it's directed, how it's managed, in general. So I'm doing a general analysis, beyond the fact that people are being charged in any way.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0032par0245	How can we agree to that?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0246	That's the first one. Sure, here's the thing...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0032par0247	How can we agree to this under this great roof?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0248	If you'll excuse me... Now, of course, I don't think it's the right way to analyze a person's name by mentioning the name of the government here. Because everything we're going to talk about here, as a result, can have different consequences, but everybody knows that, everybody's been saying it for years, so most of all, he's left, and most of all he's left. He didn't bring it up for years, decades, or so on? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I have to use general statements again. Besides, I said one more thing, look, I said one more thing... I'm finishing, Mr. President, my last sentence.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0033par0254	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. I also said: Cyprus is very honorable during this period, of course, almost all of them, so they've created their own policies, they've operated under the circumstances. We're not criticizing him, we're trying to put together a general situation and a picture. It's absolutely out of the question to blame people by leaving. Each man can be judged on his own terms, on his own terms. Also, look, 20 years ago, 30 years ago, in terms of weapons systems that the Turkish Armed Forces, the state of Turkey, the nation, needed to defend these lands, almost as few as their national production.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0034par0258	Turkey was supposed to count?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0259	I'm talking 40 years, 30 years ago, so I'm not giving you a date.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0034par0260	No, no, is Turkey supposed to count in place?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0261	Look, I'm not giving you a date. These are facts, domestic, nationally produced.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0034par0262	Oh, that. Turkey was supposed to count?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0263	Now, in order for you to be quarterback, you have to have tools, means, you have to have some capacity, and most importantly, that's one of them.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0034par0264	Turkey was supposed to count? You're talking about 40 years ago.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0031par0266	I mean, look, now, if you don't have that kind of opportunity as an executive, can you do this kind of operation? We don't blame any government, we don't say anything against any government. I'm doing a general analysis. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0035par0268	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0036par0271	Thank you. And I would like to say that this operation, which has been carried out at this time, has been carried out by the Turkish Armed Forces in connection with the removal of the terrorist organization from our borders and the removal of its threat, is a matter of Turkey's national security. Today the Turkish Armed Forces are more powerful than ever. The state of the Republic of Turkey is stronger than ever today. During the EC PARTY administrations, serious investments have been made in the defence industry, serious funds, resources, serious investments in the budget, technology, and they have been improved. So from here, sir, the Turkish Armed Forces are now at its most powerful... Who are you referring to? I don't think it's right to act in the sense that we're going to get a polemic out of here, because there's no bread today, and we're going to get a polemic out of here.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0037par0273	If the minister didn't say that, would it have turned out to be polemic?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0036par0274	Of course, every government will explain its actions during its own time. Now, the opposition parties are here from morning until evening, and we're at the Turkish Armed Forces point today, we're going to talk about our actions at the point of defence industry and the point where we've brought Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0038par0276	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0039par0277	If the Machine Chemical Industries Agency doesn't sell scraps, they're screwed, they've ruined Machine Chemistry.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0038par0278	Mr. Akçay, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0040par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to point out that as of today, we don't find it right in the terms of our country. In this scope, I would like to point out that we are a nation and a nation that has been able to achieve national independence and national domination by giving a glorious Battle of Salvation, even when Turkey, the Turkish nation, has been occupied by many imperial states. Now we're talking about the movement of Afrin; even in the 1920s, Adana, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, even under the occupation, the leading men and heroes and Kuvayimilian forces have also done the necessary action against a number of games that the French imperialism wanted to play there. Of course, we need to know how to be proud of where we came from. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0041par0285	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0040par0286	Other considerations, from our country, from our own care, from the circumstances, from the possibilities, are self-evaluations, evaluations... of course, these are valuable, but as of today, I'm saying that we have the benefit of looking at the present and the future. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0041par0288	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Special, you have one more request. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0042par0292	If you're claiming to run a state, of course you're bragging about what you're doing, and it's up to us to criticize what you're going to be criticizing, but if a government manager is asked to make a statement that he didn't say he was a person in the past, and he made promises that he didn't say he was a person in the past -- all of them have taken important jobs in this country -- acting in the way of the Westerners -- and accusing them of making decisions that they want, it's under this lofty roof, he's being asked to make concrete, to make concrete statements to everyone in the past. For such a critical time, let all be behind our army. If you say that you have experienced the most powerful days of the army, of course we do not hate it, but you are the ruler of the state. Is that it or isn't it? What you've done to the army with conspiracy cases, what the army has done on July 15th is one thing, but we're glad the army is strong, but you can't generalize and accuse the previous republical governments by generalizing them without naming names. It wouldn't suit a minister. I wanted to express it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0041par0295	Thank you, lawmakers.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0296	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0041par0297	Mr. Secretary, this can't go on.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0298	By framing the Turkish Armed Forces... only that matter...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0041par0299	Well, wait a minute... please...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0301	Yeah, well, we're really glad to hear that you're happy that the Turkish Armed Forces are strong.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0044par0302	We built it. We built it. I mean, for the love of God, don't do this.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0045par0303	We were saying that when you didn't say it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0304	I'm just saying we're happy to hear it, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0044par0305	This party was formed in the square in the Battle of Salvation.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0306	I'm confirming, and I'm confirming, we didn't say anything.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0046par0307	People did, folks, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0308	Guys, my sentence is very clear. I mean, that's a good thing, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0047par0309	Don't talk about it like it's new, don't make it sound like it's new, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0046par0310	The country was founded by the people.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0311	No, I'm saying it's a good thing.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0047par0312	This party was founded on the front line in the national struggle.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0313	I'm saying it's a good thing. This kind of debate over the Turkish Armed Forces is not the right argument, so...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0047par0315	Here, you're the one who started it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0316	I didn't start it, no.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0047par0317	You're the one who started it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0318	I didn't start it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0047par0319	Before us, he was weak, and before us, he was something. You're the one who started it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0048par0320	He's always been strong, always.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0043par0321	You've weakened the Turkish Armed Forces, he's in trouble, there's been talks like that, so I brought it up, and I said these sentences on him. So the Turkish Armed Forces are really very powerful, and in our Constitution... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I told him he was doing the best he could under his mandate. That's it, that's it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0049par0324	Okay, it'll be fine if you just say it like that.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit01spe0050par0325	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of the Parliament, the talks carried out according to Article 59 of the Interior Charter (2) have been completed. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0050par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Serkan Topal, a member of Hatay MP who wants to talk about rockets and their effects in the District of Reyhanlı, Hatay Province, Turkey. Mr. Clumsy, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0051par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I ask God's mercy on our soldiers who were killed in Operation Olive branch, once again, for the sake of our nation's head, for the immediate healing of the wounded. Sadly, about an hour ago, two rockets fell on Reyhanite again. Another cemetery complex and one of the most affected counties is from Reyhan. Unfortunately, 31 rockets have crashed so far. There are wounded, and I wish you a speedy recovery. We were there, but as of yesterday, we came to Ankara. Our current President of Reyhanlı County, Fatih Turan, is there, and I wish them all the best. Of course, while we were there, we visited our governor, our mayor, our law enforcement, our security forces, our soldiers. Once again, we wish them well; our heart and heart are with them. We say: The people of Hatay are one from Samandag to Gizhan, and the people of Reyhan to Reyhan, one heart by our soldier. But unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, they're gone -- he's just had an hour and a half with Afrin. For an hour and a half, he did not speak of the Reyhanite. Mr. Secretary, the Reyhan is watching us right now, so I hope you'll apologize to them. When it comes to Afrin, 31 rockets drop next to him, our people get hurt, but he doesn't say a word about Minister Reyhanlı. Now, speaking of veterans -- come on, Mr. Secretary, let's give Mr. AK PARTY the title of veteran to Reyhanlı, especially the group. And tomorrow, I will bring this bill to the House. Now, the government wants to be serious. You're always talking about nationalism, you're always talking about national unity and unity, but, unfortunately, Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu says: "We're with our soldiers." Someone's uncomfortable, AKP's uncomfortable, why? The Republican People's Party's MPs are praying to our soldiers, the AK PARTY Group is uncomfortable. Why do you bother? Now, if anyone should be disturbed today, it is the people, it is the citizens, it is the Reyhan, it is the Gizhan, it is the Church, it is the bombs that fall there every day because of your foreign policy. We said: "We are always on the side of Syria's territorial integrity. " Was there a president, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the president of the Republican People's Party? When the talks were being held in Oslo, when the moats were being opened, was it Kemal Kilicdaroğlu who said, "We were deceived?" Now, again, Å, sir, he's struck... okay, we're against the coup, we're on your side, but this time, sir, the target again, the Republican People's Party. If you do not fear the people, then fear God, the Lord, the Lord, the Lord, the Lord of Mercy, the Lord of Mercy, the Lord of Mercy! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, I would like to briefly remind you of a past: Did you, who had sent away the Blue Marmara, after a while, ask us when we were leaving? What is NATO doing in Libya? You who say, "NATO must soon enter Libya." You who say, "Riza Sarraf is a philanthropist." You who say, "The next day is a man." You who say, Fetullah Hodja Efendi, you who laid the groundwork for the coup attempt of the 15th of July, who delivered all the institutions of the state to them; you who greeted the terrorist organization with drum zurna; you who said, "We have been deceived." You, who called me brother Assad, who worked the next day to call me Assad, my brother Assad, again. Now, dear friends, in the history of the republic, there has never been a political understanding, a political mentality, where such zigzags have taken place. Look, the last thing I want to say is that we want to live in peace with our neighbors.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0052par0021	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0051par0022	Thank you. We say: If you really want to secure the border between Turkey and Syria again, you will form a commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and this commission will renegotiate with the Syrian state, cooperate with the government of Syria, and that's how terrorism will be cleansed. Once again, we're warning the government, let's set up this commission, we'll make these talks, and we'll make our 911-mile border as solid as a deed. Once again, I wish the wounded a speedy recovery, my condolences to the people of Reyhan, to the people of Brekhan, to the people of Kilis. By the way, let's not forget the vet title. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0053par0027	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mr. Ahmet Selim Yurdakul, an Antalya MP who wants to talk about the effects of air pollution on human health and environment. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0054par0033	Mr. President, I ask God's mercy and immediate healing for our wounded brothers and sisters, who have come to bear witness as they fight terror in Afrin, primarily as part of Operation Olive Mountain. May my Lord triumph over the brave Turkish soldier fighting terrorists for the peace and unity of the Turkish nation. Honourable citizens, respected lawmakers, I have been promised to present our proposals as the National Movement Party to explain the problems caused by air pollution in our country and to prevent air pollution. As a breast-heart disease specialist, I'd like to bring the matter of air pollution on the agenda of the House and call for a quick hand in the House on this matter. As representatives of the legislature and of the Turkish nation, it is one of our first duties to look after the health and well-being of our citizens. Honourable lawmakers recently conducted a scientific study of the Turkish Toraks Association's air pollution and living conditions. According to their statistics, the air pollution rate in all the provinces of our country is very severe. According to our own legislation, which is more tolerant than the standards of the World Health Organization, almost 53 percent of our 81 provinces -- as you can see here -- have 70 percent of the air. On the other hand, on the basis of the standards of the World Health Organization from November 2016 to October 2017, the only province where the health limits are not exceeded is Rize, and in the 80 remaining provinces, unfortunately, air pollution is infested. It's good for Rize, but there's data that's depressing for our other cities. What are the effects of air pollution on human health, which the World Health Organization describes as an invisible killer, causing the death of more than 7 million people in the world every year? In the beginning, asthma and chronicly obstructive lung disease and general respiratory disorder, poisonings, cancer -- birthing anomalies, increased sensitivity to viral infections, setting the stage for heart disease, negative effects on stress. Also, carbon monoxide inhaled by dirty air causes a large reduction in oxygen in the blood, resulting in constant fatigue and sleep. All these situations are very important to the health of our citizens. So, as the National Movement Party, we'd like to make some suggestions on preventing air pollution. 1) We argue that an active environmental management policy should be built. 2) It is possible to make our factories and industrial facilities environmentally sensitive without disrupting growth and production. Therefore, we believe that the implementation of policies that will enable this should be carried out immediately. 3) In order to maintain sustainable growth and a clean environment for future generations, we insist that all emissions that damage the atmosphere are effectively monitored and that new legislation on the basis of maintaining the health of our citizens and that every area of these legislation must be dominated. 4) Internal combustion engine vehicles working on oil and oil derivatives play a vital role in air pollution. That's why we need to get the work, measures, and incentives that will increase electric vehicles in traffic on the agenda as soon as possible. My regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0055par0045	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Mustafa Hilmi Dülger. Here you go, Mr. Dulger. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0056par0051	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a commitment to the operation of Olive branch and rockets launched in my constituency to end the terror nests nesting near our border, and I salute you all. About ten minutes ago, two rockets fell on our church again. From here I pray that all the people of the church be healed, and that my Lord may deliver us from this trouble at once. Congressmans, as it is known, on the order of our President, January 20, 2018 hours at 17 p.m. Operation Olive branch, which has been launched to end the terror nests right next to our border, begs my Lord to grant victory to the soldiers who led this operation, and to our martyred martyrs who walk to Hakk. I pray for God's mercy and urgent healings to our veterans. This action to defend our nation's sovereignty and right to life against terrorist attacks that threaten the security of our country is nothing more than an end to our right to international law. The United Nations Convention gives us authority on this matter. During this operation, only terrorist targets are being shot. An action against civilians and innocent people is never at stake, as those who want to target the operation and put Turkey in a difficult position in the international arena claim to slander. From this sentence, the Union of Turkish Medicines and the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures, which strongly condemns the speech of those who hold the reins, or rather, the speech of those who hold the reins to the public of Turkey, for this action that targets our safety and terrorist nests next to our borders. I'd like to bring to the attention of the public that one of these rooms that I've been following closely for nearly thirty years has never been in the interests of any of our colleagues. I wonder where these chambers were during more than a hundred rockets thrown into our church by the DEAC, when we buried 21 lives because of these rockets, wondering if they hadn't been enlightened or asleep in what sleep. He also warns his fellow citizens of his country, who are members of these rooms, that these governments will cease, and if so, I would advise them not to use the expression of the Turk, which is at the head of their names.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0057par0055	Without rooms, there's no democracy.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0056par0056	Congressmans, I find it difficult to understand why these environments are against the OSO today, when they are in agreement with the Turkish Armed Forces in connection with the Firat Shield operation. I also condemn those who have made the declaration of treason and signed it by 170 people who have already signed the declaration of treason that they are known to the public, and who have made it their own, and who describe themselves as a member of the nation because they are not a member of the nation. And from this sentence, I'd like to bring to your attention some of the people I find difficult to understand.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0058par0058	In 1991, Mr. Recep asked for peace when he was mayor.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0056par0059	I can't figure out how people like this could get on their boats, as well as those who serve as presidents of the Veterans and cabinets. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, if these people who have shown themselves as the other man, who has shown themselves as the "Administrator" are being thrown rockets at the church, then they didn't know anything about it. Again, from Kandil to the bedrooms, mines are mined everywhere. When the instructions came, the lives, rape, and property of our people were being destroyed, I wonder if they didn't know about this. Again, I'm wondering if these innocent people, this side of our borders, they've never remembered to put this on their agenda when there's been more than 700 terrorist attacks on our people who are living their normal lives. I salute all of you, and ask the martyrs for mercy from my Lord, and for speedy healing to our veterans.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0059par0064	Thank you, Mr. Dulger.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0060par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0059par0066	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0060par0067	Mr. President, in his speech, the Turkish Medical Association and the Turkish Chamber of Engineers and Architectures have made an accusation that the Union has done no good to its members, that it has not dealt with its rights. He's not part of either of the trade groups. I don't think it's right for him to talk about rooms he doesn't know about or isn't related to. I also condemn him for doing what these rooms should have been done to change. As president of a former medical office, I remind our great nation that our colleagues' rights and public health are our first duty.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0059par0069	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Ozkoc, you have a request.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0061par0071	According to 60, sir.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0059par0072	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0061par0075	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, in Turkey, if Turkey is to be ruled by democracy, we need NGOs, associations, organised society if social rights and law are to be really valid in Turkey. Someone might try to get the opposition to accept Turkey's ability to govern based on what only one person says by a habit of acting according to one person's orders, but we want a talking Turkey. The Turkish Medical Association, especially... We want a Turkey where everything that happens in Turkey can be criticised, our people can defend their opinions freely on everything, and they will not be judged for it. The Turkish Medical Association has not issued a declaration of treason in its own declaration, where it has issued a declaration of humanity and conscience.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0059par0078	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0061par0079	They told our people that war is really a crime, that there is no need for peace, that there is an ideal for us all to pursue. Who in the world can defend war? In the beginning, we see the word of this founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, as a word spoken against the war. Once again, we offer our respects from the High Council, where the associations, NGOs, intellectuals, journalists, universities can't be silenced.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0059par0080	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Mush, you have a voice request.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0062par0082	Yeah, it's not...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0059par0083	Except, after all, after I've already made a promise to the group's vice presidents, after 15 MPs, you still want it. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0062par0086	Mr. President, there is freedom of expression in Turkey; everyone is free to speak their mind. No country, no country, of course, wants war, but the state of the Republic of Turkey and its nation have the right to intervene if there is a terrorist organization that concerns its own survival. War happens between two states, where there's an operation against an organization. For some reason, when Turkey is launching an operation against its focal points, they jump out of its place, develop some rhetoric in their own way. They're not worthy. So if they're criticized, if they're saying ideas, they're criticized, and if they're breaking the law, they're doing the law. We'll see the result of this together. Another is that no one here can describe this criticism with harshness because our MP criticised the Turkish Medical Association. Our congressman's criticism...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0063par0090	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0062par0091	You can't do such a thing because our MP criticised the Turkish Medical Corps. It's no one's place to develop a phrase like that. It's not fair of our congressman to accuse the statement he's made against a room of criticism that he's developed by involuntaryness. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0064par0093	I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0065par0094	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0064par0095	For the record, sir, if you'll excuse me, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0065par0096	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0064par0097	When they feel close to the terrorist organization in the Republic of Turkey, whether it's an NGO or an NGO without trial, it's not right to label a crime with words like that. Therefore, I would like to express that we condemn and disapprove of such talks.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0065par0098	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Ahrazoglu, you...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0066par0100	I'd like word on 60, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0065par0101	Is it relevant?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0066par0102	It's about rockets being thrown at Hatay.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0065par0103	Of course. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0066par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, as you know, from January 20th to today -- so it's been 11 days -- since Operation Olive Mountain, the most recent attacks have been launched on the Kilis and Hatay, on the other hand by rogue forces with the PKK and the PYD continuum. A friend of ours has just expressed that 24 rockets have been dropped to Reyhanlı, 4 to Bırıkhana, 3 to Hassa. As a result of these rockets, an electrical technician in the village of Kaletepe in Brekhan, our brother Şahin Elitaş has been killed, and a Syrian refugee has received the mercy of Hakk. As a result of this war, the people of Hatay are at the side of the Turkish nation, the Turkish army, the Turkish state, and will remain that way forever, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0065par0108	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. Congressmans, I will now make a one-minute commitment to the first 15 lawmakers who entered the system based on their location. We'll start with Mr. Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0067par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish God's mercy to our soldiers who were martyrs in cross-border operations, patience to their relatives, and immediate healing to our veterans. Our army is doing an important operation, martyring, grieving, waiting to hear from you in prayer. Rockets are being launched in the cities of the country. At the same time, it turns out that imported Serbian meats are diseased. In the Aegean, Greece says, "Come and get it." That's exactly the kind of time someone wants to get up and vote. In the congress of the province's presidency, he wants to vote as if the summer was going to be an election, taking any responsibility for the country's situation and not burdening it in any way. Once again, I speak to the High Council: Don't make politics through soldiers, don't make election and vote concerns over our martyrs, don't use our martyrs for politics, I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0068par0116	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0069par0118	Thank you. Three days ago, when Bursa Kestel, the financial advisor Nurcan Horseman Sezgin left his night job and went home, two magandas followed Mrs. Nurcan to her house because they didn't like her driving on the road, and came out of her car, they brutally attacked Nurcan Haným. In fact, this attack is an attack on all women's lives, freedom of the streets, the right to work, and those who are still out there, threatening women's right to live in peace in this country, are still out there. Today all women are threatened in Kestel. How many more women have to be subjected to violence or murdered to ensure that the mechanism of justice will work without a response to violence?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0068par0120	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0070par0122	Mr. President, good lawmakers, war is a public health issue! War is a public health issue created by human hands that destroys nature and human beings, threatens social life. Every conflict, every war, physical, spiritual, social, and environmentally irreparable, brings with it a great deal of human drama. As members of a profession sworn to live, we keep in mind that it is our primary duty to defend life, to maintain the climate of peace. The way to deal with war is to build a fair, democratic, egalitarian, free and peaceful life and make it permanent. No to war, peace is now! The members of the Central Council of the Turkish Medical Association have been detained in an operation today. What is a regime where people are detained because they want peace, not a dictatorship?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0071par0129	Mr. Akin...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0072par0131	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I'm not a physician, but I want to tell you here what I see and what I know. See, the Turkish Medical Association has always stood in the face of the AKP's marketing of healthcare; physicians' working conditions have always fought for their rights to self. The Turkish Medical Association held its head high as the physicians tried to get underfoot. The Union of Turkish Medical Medicines, who never gave their minds to power, has always been the target of the AKP government, which almost undermined the reputation of all the country's institutions. There's been a verbal lynching campaign for days for this honorable institution just because it's expressed its opinion, and this morning the members of the Turkish Medical Association were unfortunately detained. One man has even forgotten that this country has a constitution in effect. According to the Constitution, our citizens can express their thoughts, and that is not a crime. The right to live cannot be taken into custody. We're with the Turkish Medical Association.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0073par0134	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0074par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of Health, instead of dealing with the Union of Turkish Medicines, I received hundreds of calls today from the baneman, the Butler State Hospital, and the Butler Dental Hospital, when they went on a date, our patients complained that they had not made an appointment in two months or three months. I say, "You've built a hospital." But you don't put doctors in, and you don't make appointments for two or three months. I say let the Turkish Medical Corps and the doctors take care of your business. On the other hand, Mr. Minister of Transport and Mr. Minister of Economics... The Eurasia Tunnel is over a year old. Because of the 26 million transitions you've given me, I'm afraid, because 16 million vehicles passed by last year -- 10 million vehicles have not passed -- because of the wrong tender conditions -- you've taken 10 million vehicles out of our budget, 166 million euros, and the tax paid by us, our citizens, to the subsidiary firm. I invite you to make the right tenders for the AK PARTY government.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0075par0139	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0076par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Imagine a man who fought terrorism for his country, was injured in a hand-to-hand battle, but his health code is looking for 40 percent body loss, so he can't be a vet and he can't even explain to his kid why he can't be a vet. We believe that every country boy who puts his life on the line for the country is a hero's gas, but we have 19,000 citizens who don't get the title of veteran because of this ridiculous regulation. Will Mehmetci, who is currently struggling in Afrin, have the same problems? Our soldiers who were wounded in Afrin are referred to as soldiers of the tribes, who have been visited. Will these wounded soldiers be counted? The government counted the person who was scratched on July 15th as a veteran with a KHK. The same KHK must be applied to those who are not disabled, those who are not considered veterans, and the discrimination between veterans must be cleared immediately. The honor of being a veteran must not be denied these heroes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0075par0143	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0077par0145	Today, there are more than 100,000 middle-school graduates in our country. She was appointed 3,800 middle-school nurses a year with the 2014 KPSS, while she was appointed some 680 mid-school nurses with the 2016 KPSS. Because of this sudden decline in numbers, thousands of middle - school graduates and their families have been victims. Resolved of this sacrifice must be appointed in accordance with the rights. Again, notary writers, another profession, have no right to protect themselves. They are seen as special employees in a business relationship while being tried for crimes related to their duties as civil servants. In this regard, it is also necessary to immediately address injustice and to notary writers to be granted their rights as soon as possible.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0075par0147	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0078par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God for mercy on our martyrs, and speedy healing for our veterans, and for our nation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the highest decision maker in our nation. Determination is the key to success, indecision and delay, failure. He doesn't think of the number of wolves to be thrown on a pack. People should also accept the consequences of their decisions. Think about it before you start, but once you start, just finish it right away. Pessimism and indecisiveness are the greatest enemy. Decisions before and after time have no chance of success. Decisioning a goal is often the goal itself. The worst decision is better than indecisive. Determination is like a sharp knife, and it cuts properly. Indecisiveness is like a blind knife, which tears apart everything it cuts. Determination leads to quick, efficient, efficient work, success and development.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0075par0151	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0079par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. January 27, 1299, the beginning of the glorious path of the Ottoman Empire from the fiefdom to the empire, is undoubtedly one of the days that guides history. Seven centuries ago, the tolerance and justice of the Ottoman Empire, which spread from Willow to Earth, continued for many years. Peace in Anatolia, peace in the Balkans, and the Ottoman rule of stability in the Middle East have led to a blessed period of love and respect for humanity. It must not be forgotten that the courage of Ulabatlı, the wisdom of Akşemsettin, and the genius of the Conqueror, have set foot in Ottoman Istanbul, and the world into a new era. We're the descendants of a career in the government, where compassion is a code of heroism in the battlefields. On the 718th anniversary of his organization, he says to our glorious army that our goal in Operation Olive branch is.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0080par0157	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0081par0159	I'm asking the Minister of National Education. In our Denizli Pamukkale district, there is a lack of elementary school and secondary school. We also have many benefactors in our province who will make schools. When we ask the governorship, the National Education Directorate, the mayors, we have no land to build. Because of lack of school, two schools are taught in our districts of Pamukkale and Central. Question 1: When are you going to allocate the land that will allow philanthropists to build schools as ministers? If you can't find enough land, why don't you go publicize it for the school lot? Question 2: Your ministry provides transport and training in many villages, towns and neighborhoods. It turns out that years of transport training has not been helpful. So when are you going to stop carrying it? Question 3: When are you going to remove the out-of-school, out-of-date information from the textbooks? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0082par0165	Mr. Behcet Yıldırım, please.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0083par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Draging Turkey into battle is a disaster. Despite this disaster, Despite the State of Emergency, the government and the palace are making threats and insults to those who are willing to pay the price despite the penalties. TTB, which I have been proud and proud of for 32 years, has been persecuted by power and palace. Doctors' homes, members of the TTB Central Council, were raided and taken into custody earlier this morning. I condemn this situation with violence and hatred. It's not the doctors' job to kill, it's the living. When he said no to war, he spoke not only to the current power, but to all the conflicting regions. Everyone who says, "Don't let the children die, we want peace." It's a sign that more than 350 people have been declared traitors, including social media, have been taken into custody and have been subjected to investigations. TTB says war is bad for you. I say war is bad for you, and AKP power is bad for you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0084par0170	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0085par0172	Mr. President, dear MPs, I wish you the best of luck in the operation of our hero Mehmetçik, and our glorious army in the operation of Afrin, the puppet of the imperialists who threatened our borders, our national security and the back of our state in the south of our country, Syria. I pray for God's mercy to our beloved martyrs, and for our veterans' immediate healing. I'd like to express my gratitude to the nation of saints who have taken over the Afrin operation. Last week, I strongly condemn those who attacked my younger brothers and sisters in my constituency, Qadiköy, who supported Operation Olive Mountain. I've given my condolences to my brothers who have been attacked by telephone, and I'd like to rephrase that I've always been there for them. I also thank my Syrian younger brothers and I salute the great Assembly for flocking to the military branch of our Syrian brothers to join the operation in Afrin.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0086par0175	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0087par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish God's mercy and forgiveness to our soldiers who were martyrs in Operation Olive branch, urgent healings to our veterans, and victory to our heroic army. It is the most effective response given to their puppets by this important action, Zionism and imperialism that will ensure peace and security for all who live in our region. Any intervention, including the existence of our beloved nation, Seljuklu, Ottoman and Republic, which has been going on for a thousand years, will be destroyed by the merger of state and nation. Our history is full of countless examples of this. I would like to finish my words with a description of John Kemal, and a verse of prayer: The storm that broke is the Turkish army, Ya Rabb. This is the army that died for you, O Lord. Until your name is exalted with the oppressors, Win, for this is the last army of Islam.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0088par0184	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0089par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I pay my respects to the citizens who follow us. The Deputy Prime Minister is here. We're calling him from here. The Council of Political Powers and Ministers is a terrorist organization of PYD-YPG from day to night, you say. Well, I'm speaking to the political authority here, Mr. Minister, and I'm speaking to you here: Why don't you consider PYD-YPG a terrorist organization based on the decision of the Council of Ministers? Why are you afraid to consider what you're saying verbally as a terrorist organization based on the Council of Ministers' decision? Are you afraid of America, or are we again deceived, deceived? Are you doing this to keep your maneuvering space hidden? Political power is not sincere in this regard. He's probably afraid of PYD-YPG. For him, the Council of Ministers has decided that he does not declare a terrorist. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0090par0190	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0091par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. In Sivas, who is in the 5th service group for health workers, the chartered staff established under Law 4924 was not given only to emergency medical experts and subsidiary specialists, but to other major-dubstantive physicians. This distinction leads to injustices and corruption of the working peace among employees in the same place, and also causes problems and difficulties in the employment of permanent specialists. Such problems exist not only in our Sivas, but also in the other five districts of the districts where the employment of an expert doctor occurs. I propose to Mr. Minister of Health: I respectfully salute your grand delegation by giving the contractary staff of 4924 to all specialists without discrimination and by saying to them, "Resolve this injustice and restore the peace of work."
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0092par0195	Thank you, lawmakers. Now, I'm going to make a promise to Mr. Group Vice Presidents in order. Mr. Akçay, let's start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0093par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Last Sunday (January 28th) was the anniversary of the adoption of the 6th Amendment, the manifesto of the Liberation War. It is a document announcing the open limits of the existence of the Turkish nation. It's a declaration that our sworn nation will live forever in its eternal homeland. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk described Misakimillî as the constitution of the Turkish nation directly and described it as this: there is no proper and proper line in our service. The line that we will identify with our strength and with our power will be the line. I want to make it known on this occasion that we are faithful to this oath, and by this oath we are bound. We will live forever in our goal of independence, unity, and integrity from the commonwealth. On the occasion of the 98th anniversary of the Mysakimilli, we kindly and gratefully remember the heroes of our Parliament, who carried the national struggle to victory, who accepted and declared him in the last Ottoman Parliament regardless of the threat of the enemy. Also, on 29 January, the West Thracian Turks are the National Resistance Day. In November 1987, after Gümülcine was shut down by the Turkish Youth Union in West Thukya and the Turkish Union of Iskece on the grounds that the Turkish Union was not a Turk in the region, the Western Thracian Turks began to fight to protect their presence and identity. This step, taken on January 29, 1987, has since been known as the International Resistance Day of the Western Thracian Turks.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0094par0205	Mr. Akçay, here's your extension.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0093par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. This resistance is not only the closure of several NGOs; it is the resistance of the national identity against the denial and destruction of Turkishism in accordance with international law and agreements. The Western Thracian Turks face various challenges today, as they did yesterday. Education is the most important of all. In Western Thrace, the number of teachers assigned by Turkey in exchange for about 150,000 Turks is 16. This number decreases every year. For example, ten years ago, in 2007, that number was 27. On this important occasion, the cornerstone of the Western Thracian Turkic struggle, especially Sadık Ahmet, commemorates our people with mercy and once again emphasizes our support for the righteous and legitimate struggle of the Western Thracian Turks. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0095par0211	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0096par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. 11 executives of the Turkish Medical Association's Central Council were raided and detained today. Now prosecutors, judges have also forgotten that arrest in this country is a means to an end, that arrest is actually something that shouldn't be done, and that if there's any doubt of evidence being compromised or actually escaping, people are able to do something. And, frankly, I'm concerned about their arrest. What do these doctors say? ▪ War is a public health issue created by human hands that destroys nature and human beings, threatens social life. Every conflict, every war, causing irreparable problems in physical, spiritual, social, and environmental health, brings great human drama with it, they say. ▪ The way to deal with war is to establish a fair, democratic, egalitarian, free and peaceful life and to make it permanent. They call war no, peace right now. What does the President say against such a naive and simple explanation? "Terrible lovers," he says. Indeed, the Minister of Health, the Home Secretary, is pressing charges. The government aims at valuable scientists with terrible anger. Today, UN Secretary General Afrin made a statement expressing concern over the deaths of civilians. In particular, he expressed regret over the loss of women and children's lives. Now, can it be expected that the democratic forces of Turkey, scientists, will remain silent in a matter such as the United Nations, have made a statement?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0097par0219	I'll give you an extension, please.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0096par0220	If they could, they'd really investigate the United Nations, prosecutors, and today we see how much of a delusion has actually been fused around it. But these delusions are temporary, and these delusions are delusions created by people that no one of them has ever actually gone to war or died from. We've seen what happened to these scientists in 1971, we've seen it in the 1980 coup, we've seen the pressures of university teachers in the Menderes era. Scientific progress has been cut like a knife in this country, I'm afraid. We really want to ask: what is this fear? So today, 311 people were taken into custody for sharing only anti-war media. Our Pendik district was burned down, the building burned down, and a party in front of it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, I will.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0098par0224	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0096par0225	The district building of the third largest party of this Assembly, an opposition party, was burned down, and what happened to those taken into custody here? They were released for lack of evidence. What were they called, our friends from the county who wanted to make a press conference in front of that county building? If you say "Afrin," we will attack. What happened, is there freedom of speech in this country? What are you talking about? If they say they won't call it "Afrin" in front of our burned-down county building, there will be an attack. Is this freedom of speech? I'd like to remind you of Muhammad Ali, the one you loved so much, and the one you gave from time to time. Because he didn't want to go to the army in the Vietnam War -- three and a half years -- his medal was reinstated, he was indicted and found guilty, but then he got that medal back, and he won the law war, Muhammad Ali.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0098par0227	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0096par0228	I'll give you my last sentence. Yes, and here we call again: It's easy to keep the war, it's hard to keep the peace, it's hard to say peace. We insist on saying peace, we say it's a right. There is a right to peace, and to defend it is freedom of expression and right. You can defend the war, but you can't stop those who advocate peace, you have no right. Please write this down in your mind, on your conscience, wherever you can write it down, anywhere you can write it down.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0098par0230	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0099par0233	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Mr. President, right now there are no institutions, no structures left in our country that have not been discredited. The so-called doctors, so-called teachers, so-called pharmacists, so-called soldiers, every institution has been disgraced by the highest person in power in every way when the power is not in their favor. If there are no intellectuals in a country, no writers in a country, no artists in a country, no free-thinking, free-spoken NGOs in that country, then that country is not run by democracy. There's only one thing left, dictatorship. If a whole country is shaped the way a single person says it is, the way a single person says it, everyone tries to do what he says, the journalists try to write what he says, and if people start talking the way he wants it to, it's impossible for that country to develop and grow. However, I have been deceived every time. If he says that he has been deceived by soldiers, deceived by other countries, deceived by people who walk the road with him, even if he claims that he has been deceived by his companions who are under the same roof, there is one thing that is disabled. So, at the top of this country, there's a person who's been cheated on, who's always wrong, and unfortunately, right now, law, justice, and the whole system are between that person's two lips.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0098par0236	I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0099par0237	Thank you. Turkey does not deserve to be ruled like this. Of course, NGOs will criticize it when it comes to it, intellectuals will criticize it, writers will criticize it, journalists will criticize it; it is the driving force of a country. The understanding that destroys this is actually an understanding that destroys the future of Turkey. We, the Republican People's Party, would like to remove the obstacles in front of them as soon as possible. We want a country that is not ruled by an extraordinary state of Turkey, but in peace with its own institutions, with respect to the separation of forces, and as the Republican People's Party, we express once again that we are on the side of peace in the face of war.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0098par0239	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0100par0242	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are conducting an operation in the Afrin region, north of Syria, south of Turkey, at our border with Hatay. This operation is being carried out against terror elements and their extensions in the region, which are organised in the region; this operation is not being carried out against any individual or society, regardless of its ethnic origin, the civilian population living in the region. Our goal is to do this operation on PKK's Syrian arm -- which is considered a terrorist organization in both Turkey and the world -- to the Syrian arm. Now, while the state of the Republic of Turkey is operating against the terrorist organization south of Turkey, someone will come out and stop it, we don't want this, we don't want war. If he says, we don't want this, we don't want this. If he says, dear friends, let no one forgive him, it's terrorism, it's terrorism. Did it ever occur to these so-called intellectuals, these so-called journalists, these so-called writers, these terrorist organizations in Turkey, when they were slaughtering people, to issue a statement? Didn't it occur to them to come out and say a word while this terrorist organization was being armed? Whenever the Turkish Armed Forces and the Republic of Turkey launch an operation to protect the safety of 80 million citizens, they cry out for help. The operation is done in Afrin, you look, it sounds nearby. Dear friends, whoever is eating the bread of this nation, if by the means of this state, goes abroad and complains about the state of the Republic of Turkey, he must know that both law and this nation will answer for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0101par0246	Thank you. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda now. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça was taken back by parliament referred to as the main commission on the amendment of the Special Expension Tax Act, which was referred to as the Plan and Budget Commission (2/2014). It's for your information. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Europe (OGSP) Council of Bulgaria shall be held on February 15-17, 2018, in Sofia, Bulgaria's capital city of Sofia (ODGP) and the Joint Security and Defence Policy (OGSP) Council (OGSP) shall be submitted to the General Assembly's adoption of the Council of Tokat, the chairman of the National Defence Commission, Mr. Yusuf Whiteıt, on the matter of the participation of Mr. Yusuf Whiteit. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly In addition, the Council Research Commission's name, last name and election district members were named on the additive list, with the request of Germany and Denmark from February 30 to February 2018 to February 13-17, 2018 for a study visit to France and the United Kingdom from February 13-17 to 2018. It is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. Germany and Denmark Work Visit Committee List Study Visit to France and England Committee List All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the National Movement Party Group now has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Tuesday (30/1/2018), I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On January 30, 2018, TBMM President was proposed to hold talks on Tuesday (30/1/2018) on the opening of the parliamentary study of the issues of MHP Group Deputy President and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, in the country's investment incentive system, as well as the measures to be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made. To explain the motive of the proposal, the proposed MP of Denizli on behalf of the National Movement Party Group is Emin Haluk Ayhan. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0102par0289	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised a motion on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute the grand jury. Our proposal is about investment incentives. In particular, in recent years, there have often been changes and additions to the investment incentive system, additional exceptions with the bag of laws, and the system has become more complicated. The workforce has difficulty following them. Finally, companies operating in free zones under Law 7061, which entered into force on 5 December 2017, have been given the opportunity to benefit from the incentives of the fifth and sixth district. The current system has been changed once again, with an arrangement for attraction centers published in the Official Gazette, January 25, 2018. As a result, the changes that have been made one after the other have neutralized the support provided within the framework of different investment incentive regimes. The current investment incentive system shows that it does not produce results that will increase the value of greater production in our country and reduce foreign input dependency, that our production and exports do not provide any increase in investments that will change the structure of technology, and that the system does not serve the needs of the country's economy and the purposes of the incentive system. The import dependency of production, the use of foreign goods and imports continue to rise rapidly. In 2017, imports of intermediary goods exceeded total exports. Foreign trade deficits are available in sectors outside textile, agriculture and automotive. According to official data, a total of 6,266 investment incentives were issued in January-November 2017, total investments amounted to 84 billion Turkish liras, estimated employment at 176,000. On the other hand, the document provided for regional incentives in four, five, and six areas is only 1,123, with a fixed capital investment amount of 10.6 billion euros, which is only 1.8. The document is 1,941, which is held in one, two, and three regions. The envisioned fixed capital session is 33.3 billion Turkish liras -- four, five, six -- three times the investment in the region; four, five and a half times the documentation for the sixth region. Mr. President, lawmakers, when you look at the incentives for large-scale and strategic investments, there is an unfair competitiveness of incentives called the project-based investment incentive system, the principle of transparency. In this scope, the minister has expressed that an investment of close to 70-80 billion euros, which has so far been completed, has reached the final stage. In light of the economic ministry's public state aid, data from the statistical system, in 2017 the large-scale investment document was only 5 and only 2 of these investments were found in the manufacturing industry. In 2017, the total amount of fixed capital in incentive documents corresponds to only five percent of the sum of investment in fixed capital. A strategic investment document is only nine hundred. In 2017, only 7.5 per cent of their share of the total incentive-documented investments is available. Now, when we look at fixed capital, especially after the Statistical Agency's new national income calculations, we've clearly seen that public-private segregation cannot be achieved in fixed capital investments, which are not in the official documents. There's a problem here. Private sector fixed capital investments were already negative in 2015, 2016 and the first quarter of 2017. When we look at the third quarter, we see that 60 percent of fixed capital investments are also related to construction. When we look at new investment incentive documents, we see that it's in the energy, automotive and defence industry, and when we look at its scale, it's usually under $30 million. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, we have submitted a research proposal to examine the problems of the investment incentive system in our country and the solutions. We'd like to offer your appreciation. I pay my respects. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0103par0303	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On top of the group's proposal, Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0104par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the motion issued by the MP. Yes, one of the most talked about issues on this bench in the last two years is increasing poverty, unemployment. At the same time, they've been talking about this, and they've been offering solutions to the negative economy. At every opportunity, especially in the past months, when the budget for 2018 was being discussed, our fundamental proposal as a party was for the climate of peace inside and out, and it was a peace offering. There have also been numerous speeches and determinations in terms of the cost of peace and its contribution to the economy from this bench, but this government continues to produce policies that ignore all of these proposals and continue to go further and further away. Now we're in a war. If there is a civil war that lasts for seven years in a country's longest land border, as if it weren't enough, if the powers of this country are involved in that war using various excuses, we can't find economic recovery, no matter how much we talk about investment, incentive programs and systems, even if we're looking for solutions. Please, let's not kid ourselves. This country has been in an actual state of emergency for a year and a half, in a state of war across the border for two weeks. We would have seen the economic consequences of this situation together, and we would have seen it. Let's not lose sight of it. Today, the Central Bank presented a presentation on the first inflation report of the year. According to this statement, inflation at the end of 2018 years has been estimated at 7.9 per cent from 7 per cent. Meanwhile, end of 2017 inflation took place at 12 per cent. Again, let it not be forgotten that, unlike those who are warmongering in the newspapers, every plane that leaves for Afrin, every bomb that's thrown has thousands, millions of dollars' worth. Turkey's society has been working to finance this war for two weeks, and unfortunately, it's funerals. Congressmans, even though the mouth of authority is trying to fabricate a cover, the operation of Afrin is a war without a motive. The cost of this war in order to overcome the tightness of domestic policy is cut to workers and Turkish society, and as the operation of Afrin continues, the people of this country will become poorer, and the funerals will continue to come further to those poor houses of Anatolia. In this regard, no one has the right to reject peace. We are not only opposed to this war, which is still going on, but against all armed conflicts and war. At this point, this war, which has been in Syrian geography for seven years and Turkey has been directly involved for two weeks, must end quickly; it must end so that people don't die; it must end so that nature doesn't be destroyed, historical and cultural heritage can't be destroyed; it must end so that our society doesn't become poor, the workers of this country don't pay for the war. Besides, they can't even account for the cost of dying lives. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Especially this war, of course, will be martyrs. No one should be and cannot be in peace of mind. That's why I think it's time for us to get back to the climate of peace that we need the most. Don't forget again, the cost of peace is zero. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0105par0319	Thank you, Mr. Ertan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Your time is three minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0106par0324	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in an economy, the investment incentive system is very important in terms of development, in terms of production, in terms of producing high sectors, we all know that. However, incentive systems are brought in plannedly, and after a proper operational analysis of incentive systems, if needed to be changed. In our practice, however, the system of incentives, which are rushed by the bag of laws, is not only constant, it is not stable, but it also leads to a number of unfair competitions. We know the importance of incentive systems, but there's a concept that all financiers, producers, investors know this concept, we call it an investment environment. In order for investors in a country to increase their desire to invest, that investment environment actually matters a lot. It's important not only to local investors, but also to foreign investors. The investment environment has important functions. For example, cheap labor, having a labor force is an important incentive, where there are tax incentives, that's important, closeness to the raw material source, which is important, and that's important, what the incentive systems benefit from. But, Congressmans, there's something much more important, a safe investment environment. And when you say it's a safe investment environment, the rule of law in that country really exists and trust in the judiciary is being maintained. But in the last four years in our country, look, in the last four years, we've been down 30 rows in the world rankings of the Supremeity of the Law Index. We have that kind of truth. Well, then what investment incentive system, what safe environment? Look, the State of Emergency is still under way, and this country is governed by the KHK. With all that, while the State of Emergency continues, while we are constantly losing ground in the Supremeity of the Law, whatever incentive system you prepare, believe me, it will not be appealing to investments, so it won't be a bird. Therefore, before paying attention to the investment incentive system, the end of the State of Emergency environment and the trust in the rule of law and the judiciary are crucial in this country to ensure that the investment incentive system also sits on a healthy track. That, we all know, is the most important reason that the local investor knows, and the foreign investor knows. On the other hand, there's an incentive for new attractions brought in January... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I take time, or should I talk like this? It's too short...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0107par0331	Finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0106par0332	Thank you. But here, the minimum limits are unstable between regions and cities, which could lead to unfair competition, and I think it needs to be reviewed because it didn't come as a very healthy system. I also think that incentives should now be looked at not only in regions and cities, but also in boroughs. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0108par0336	Thank you, Mr. Carabinieri. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Cemal Özturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0109par0340	Mr. President, I have been promised by the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the EC PARTI Group on the motion to investigate the problems of the investment incentive system in our country and the solutions of these problems and to determine measures to be taken, including legal regulations. I salute the General Assembly. I also wish the success of Operation Olive Branch, performed by our heroic army, mercy from God to our fallen soldiers, and condolences to our relatives, and to our beloved nation, and to our veterans. Everything changes, economic life changes. Hence, with regard to these changes, new measures and incentives must be brought. Classic economic understanding is history. From the period of production based on labor, capital, natural resources, enterprise and entrepreneurial production to the age of indexed knowledge. At a time when the technology accepts data, the (Solow) growth model, the speed of technological development, can be adjusted at the desired level, the incentive system for investments must be constantly improved. Investment incentives are the ease the state provides to investors in order to increase production, employment, exports, development. The state is obliged to prepare an investment environment for the investor, and investing is the job of the investor. Our system of incentives for investments has been raised under four main topics -- general, regional, large-scale, strategic investment incentives. As noted in the basis of the research motion, it was given to our investors last month, especially in the free zones, that some tax laws and other laws were adopted on December 5, 2017. Of course, the implementation of a more effective incentive system in our country is our greatest wish. As the ruling party, we strive for it, we are always supportive of production and the employee, and we will continue to be supportive. With that respect, while I believe that the research proposal given by the MHP Group was well-intentioned, I feel that there is no need for such research at this stage, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly by saying that we are against the motion.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit02spe0110par0347	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0110par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (30/1/2018), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On January 30, 2018, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu and Mus MP Ahmet Yıldırım, deputy chairman of the Group (a rank 6583), were suggested that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to investigate the right to peace and freedom of expression should be met on Tuesday (30/1/2018). On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group Group, Bitlis MP Mr. Mizgin Irgat has been recommended to explain the reason for the proposal in the group proposal. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0111par0016	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by our esteemed MPs that our party has submitted a parliamentary investigation into the right to peace and the pressures towards freedom of expression. I salute you all again, wishing you a peaceful day. In fact, one of the most violated rights in Turkey in a long time is freedom of expression, not just a process that has begun with Afrin (Afrin) recently. At the moment, there are countless people in prisons who are in prison for the use of freedom of expression, and each one of them expects that one day the freedom of expression will dominate this country and a fair trial will be made. Hakeza, the right to peace. Today, the Afrin issue, which has been discussed in the morning and has been discussed since this afternoon, is indeed in the House of the political will of this country, where it is the biggest disappointment for us just to talk about the war, to talk about the reason and to say it, and to the people of Turkey as well as for the people of the Middle East, it is the biggest disappointment for the Afrines. In this case, we once again say that these rights in the United Nations contracts and in many international contracts and in the Constitution have been violated in the last period, and that in this sense a disproportionate detention system has been initiated and people have been victimized. There are members of the Central Council of TTB who are under oath, bound by the Hippocratic oath and advocated peace and are currently in custody for its right to peace. Because he tweeted, because he expressed his opinion, countless people are now in custody and some are in prisons. Hakeza, a lynching fair for our party's members' statements has been launched, and there has been a fire in our Pendik district after the fair, and those who have been taken into custody have been released immediately. Political power and authority must be patient in the face of criticism, even if it is very violent, and in the face of ideas that are contrary to what they are doing, which should be taken for granted and accepted in some way. What do olives and olives have in common, counselors? It's a peaceful environment. We saw what was done in the century, and the people said, "No, all together, there will be destruction." Afrin is also a place of peace, just like his olives. The Turks, the Kurds, everyone who lives there, and everyone who lives there, live a life of peace, building their own parliaments. If this House believes in war and its motives are so justified and those who criticize it are so unfair, then let it be so, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, let it be, how it sees the last thing that happens. The civilians there, what our peoples say about this, come on, let's all go, let's all ask together, let's all find out. Human history has passed through the dark ages and gained the right to peace and freedom of expression, and it has not been easy. People have passed through the Inquisition, people have died without a fair trial, and have accepted the right to historical peace as a right to all universal religions, languages, races and humanity, and bound it to a contract, and accepted it as a rule, a contract, and a gift to humanity so that the sufferings that have happened may not happen again. No one has the right to violate this gift, all universal emotions, and in the first place the right to peace and freedom of expression, and the power has no right. If you rule, if you are in power, you have to endure criticism; if you are so closed to criticism of your actions, if you want to silence them so much, then there is something you're really hiding, and you really don't trust what you're doing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this basis, I would like to say once again that a parliamentary investigation into such a matter is being opened, and I salute it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0112par0025	Thank you, Mr. Irgat. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Niyazi Nefi Kara. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0113par0030	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the HDP proposal. I salute our High Council. Medical students who did not graduate in 1921 because they were all martyrs in the struggle for freedom, peace and democracy to go to the Battle of Çanakkale in 1915 are not acceptable in the Sivas Congress. The members of the Central Council of the Union of Turkish Medicines, founded by physicians following doctors who say, "Full independent Turkey!" were taken into custody earlier this morning. After Mr. President's target and the Ministry of Interior has stepped in, physicians who have been able to go and testify after being summoned have been detained from their homes early in the morning. What was the reason they were taken into custody? We physicians warn: War is a public health issue that destroys nature and man, threatens social life, created by human hands. Guys, where's the crime in that?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0114par0032	CHP public health issue, CHP!
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0113par0033	I mean, is there anything that doesn't make sense to you guys, which one of us? ▪ Each conflict, every war, physical, spiritual, social, and environmentally irreparable problems lead to great human drama. ▪ Didn't the war in Syria cause drama? Where's 3.5 million Syrians? Where are the thousands, tens of thousands of people who died at sea? Isn't this a drama, that we, as this country, are one of the most experienced? As members of a profession sworn to live, we do not forget that it is our primary duty to defend life, to maintain the climate of peace. ▪ The way to deal with war is to establish a fair, democratic, egalitarian, free and peaceful life and to make it permanent. No war, no peace right now! Any of us friends want peace? I guess not. Dear friends, the Turkish Medical Association is a professional organisation. As long as occupational organisations do not call for violence, their statements include freedom of speech, as in any democracy.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0115par0035	The Medical Association has been calling for violence every semester, and it's been explained that way.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0113par0036	Unfortunately, what is happening today is also a sign that freedom of expression is underfoot in Turkey.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0115par0037	The end of state terror.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0113par0038	Mr. Ismail...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0115par0039	Say it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0113par0040	The Turkish Medical Association has no such explanation, please.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0115par0041	I do.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0113par0042	I read the statement, and here it is.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0115par0043	With so many martyrs coming, he should have made one statement at that time, the Turkish Medical Association.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0113par0044	Here, the explanation is here, if they're sending you another one, I don't know. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Turkish Medical Association wants peace, says it's a public health issue. Does anyone here have a name?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0115par0047	They have mental health issues.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0113par0048	Is there? Do we have a problem with that?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0115par0049	It's not a public health issue, it's a mental disorder.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0116par0050	What kind of language is that? What language is that, for God's sake!
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0117par0051	They should have issued a statement for the martyrs.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0118par0052	I'm sorry, but as a physician, let's not discuss this with you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0119par0053	I don't accept it as a physician.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0117par0054	Have them issue a statement for the martyrs.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0120par0055	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0121par0056	Mr. Ismail, that's your problem, if you could express yourself.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0120par0057	Mr. Kara, thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0121par0058	Mr. President, can I finish in a minute?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0120par0059	You're out of time, but, well, here, finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0121par0060	Dear friends...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0122par0061	He should have said the same thing about all those terrorist activities.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0120par0062	Guys, please don't interfere, let's listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0121par0063	Well, well, I'll tell you then, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0122par0064	Go ahead, tell me.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0121par0065	Did you see what the president of this government was doing, what the police were doing, what the soldier was doing, when the pits were being dug in Diyarbakir? You didn't see it, you didn't see it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0122par0066	Why were these men standing when the pits were dug in Diyarbakır? Where were they, and where were these physicians?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0121par0067	You're talking about 600 kilometers of walled up.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0122par0068	Where were these physicians when the pits in Diyarbakır were dug, and I ask you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0121par0069	Our physicians are there now, our physicians standing at the front.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0122par0070	Where was he when the doctor was killed, when he was martyred?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0121par0071	Our friends are there now, where are your boys? None of them.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0123par0072	We'd like to issue a statement for the martyrs as well.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0122par0073	Have him issue a statement for the martyrs.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0121par0074	Look, a Turkish Medical Association, a physician, says peace, no martyrs, no wounded soldiers. What's wrong with that? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0124par0077	That's not what he said.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0125par0078	He doesn't say that, he doesn't say that.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0126par0079	Thank you, Mr. Kara. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bart's MP, Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0127par0084	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the HDP Group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. In the group's proposal, a research commission is asked to be established on the basis of the Turkish Medical Association's declaration, claiming that there are pressures towards peace and freedom of expression. Dear lawmakers, Operation Olive Dalli on Afrin is aimed at eliminating the terrorist activities of PYD-YPG terror organizations against our country and the people living in the region, which have been linked to the PKK. The operation consists of the use of the right to self-defense of the United Nations Convention, Article 51, and other international contracts, in order to disrupt the terrorist corridor of our country's southern border and reopen its homeland for people who have been displaced. The Turkish Medical Association and the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures who supported it described this operation against terror and terrorist as an operation against peace with no civilian casualties so far. In this manner, the Medical Association advocates not the right to live, but the murder of innocent civilians, children, women, and exile from their homes. This statement has nothing to do with freedom of expression. So far, we have health workers, doctors, who have been martyred by terrorist organizations. The Union of Turkish Medical Medicines and the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures, who do not defend their own members' rights to live, and who support our martyrs' rights, and when it comes to the murder of this terrorist, they have again appeared on stage in the operation of Afrin, as in the past, to demonstrate that they are not on the side of this unfortunate declaration, but on the side of terrorist organizations that have slaughtered man, who have once again committed terrorism by taking refuge in the concepts of human rights and peace. If you describe this as a violation of the right to live while our military is fighting for his life against terrorist organizations, if you do a smear on social media with pictures that don't have actual backgrounds, then the judiciary will come into effect. As a matter of fact, that's what's been done; investigations have begun, these investigations are the investigations of the judiciary. There is no way the legislature could interfere with the investigations of the judiciary. The 138th article of our Constitution is clear: there can be no questions asked about the investigations carried out by the judiciary, no commission for research. Therefore, first of all, defending violence is not freedom of expression. Article 26 of the Constitution is open, Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights is open, Article 19 of the United Nations Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, he says that such a commission is not possible, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0128par0091	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0129par0092	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0128par0093	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0129par0094	It is not freedom of expression to defend violence. ▪ There can be no motion for research on this subject. He actually made a taunt of it. Because there is no violence in this motion, nor in anything that this motion is about. That's why I demand word.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0128par0095	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0129par0099	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would actually like to suggest that we get out of the United Nations, get out of the Council of Europe. Indeed, only I understand and so do I, who understand the way he reads himself. Continue to rule as people who say. Really, can't you read it? I'm asking you seriously. ▪ War is a public health problem that destroys nature and human beings, threatens social life, created by human hands. Isn't it a thought, or isn't it? How can you call this terrorism? You may not think so. You may think you're operating against terrorism there.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0130par0102	They're not sincere, they're not sincere. They're being mean.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0129par0103	We may be thinking, we say that you're actually doing something to camouflage the Kurdish problem in Turkey, the labor problem, the murders, child abuse, a lot of things. There wasn't a stone that got up and was thrown this way. In the Battle of Salvation, you have closed a coven that has not been closed. At the time, if there was a very serious situation, this Parliament should have been open; you didn't do it, you went behind your back, you closed it, you closed the council, you closed the talks, and today you're trying to avoid it with such a sloppy statement. But it's all a difference of opinion. T-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0131par0104	What thought? He's attacking you with a gun, what difference of opinion, brother?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0132par0105	Let the Turkish Medical Association defend the rights of the doctors it represents. Let him defend the doctors' rights, the Turkish Medical Association, do its duty.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0129par0106	These are not terrors, these are not violence. Peace is right, peace is right.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0131par0107	There is no freedom of thought!
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0129par0108	Nor is it a crime not to call what you call terror. People were killed for it in this country. Don't do this. It'll come back to you and you'll know it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0133par0110	Thank you, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0131par0111	Let them attack Turkey, let them be free of thought! Don't argue nonsense, there's nothing to defend!
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0134par0112	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0133par0113	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0134par0114	In her speech, Mrs. Flitz described the conversation our friend in our group as a loudmouthed speech...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0135par0115	I mean, it's not an insult. And it's not a blow job, it's a blow job.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0134par0116	...that we're also bringing this up to cover other jobs. This is clearly a distortion.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0136par0117	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0134par0120	Mr. President, dear friends, no war, no peace. There's no one who doesn't want it, except those who have dirty accounts, except those who have dark intentions in the region, who want to make the Middle East Balkans and turn the people there against one another, not Kurd or Turkish or Arab in the region, all want peace. So, why is this happening in the area, all this war, all this carnage? There's an imperial ghost in the area. They've bonded with gangs, terrorist organizations, people who want to dominate by hitting on other people's heads. This dirty relationship, which Turkey opposes. If you form a dirty relationship with an imperial force, if you buy 5,000 trucks of weapons, not a gun -- it's an open war. You want peace? You will oppose the terrorist organization, the terrorist organization that hit people in the region, the terrorist group that hit Kurdish, Arab, Turkish. In what context do you say these things? When you were sending those weapons in the trucks yesterday, did you say peace to that terrorist organization when you were being backed up, dark things were being done in the area? What are you doing while this terrorist organization raids and plunders Arab villages in that area, while Kurds disobey them? Have they been contested, have they been called peace? It hasn't been said. When I draw the bottom for the Kurds, for the Kurds -- for the Turks, for the Arabs, for the safety of the region, you say peace. No one's gonna believe that. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0137par0125	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0138par0126	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0137par0127	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0138par0128	Just for the record, we've been antiemperlayers for years. We are not the ones who have allowed the 6th Fleet to be thrown into the sea, and we are not the ones who have approved it when the figry base has been established in this country for how long, and they are still allowed to allow it; but we are not the ones who buy weapons at every international meeting that he leaves and then silence people after that. That's what antiemperals are for, not words. We've known about the dark intentions in that area for many years, and we've been expressing them every time, and we're going to continue to.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0137par0129	Thank you. Congressmans, I submit to you the People's Democratic Party group proposal: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Bektasoglu, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0139par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Our glorious army, representing a thousand years of tradition, is of common value to all of us. It's not politics, it's anyone's army, it's not a group, it's Turkey's army, it's the Turkish nation's army. Their troops, their barracks, their headquarters are the Prophet's furnace. Our sworn commander-in-chief, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, who fought with the public against imperialism, founded the republic, an army that is unique and unique in the world. We, the Republican People's Party, the founding element of the Republic, are on the side of our army's struggle against cross-border terrorist organizations, and we pray that it succeeds. But while our Mehmets waged a struggle for his country, for his blood, for his life, in difficult conditions, there is an effort to open a second front to hatred, hatred, anger, and discrimination. Therefore, I invite everyone, especially the AKP's president, to be careful and careful. No one should make domestic political material by exploiting the unity and unity of our people. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0140par0142	Congressmans, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Tuesday (30/1/2018), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. 437, 445, 449, 450, 452, 454, 455, 468, 484, 496, 500, 512, 420, 423, 436, 444, 448, 453, 470, 470, 483, 498, 499, 499, 499, 499, 499, 499, 411, 452, 4542, 454, 454, 454, 496, 512, 423, 424, 436, 436, 444, 444, 448, 453, 467, 470, 470, 498, 499, 499, 411, 499, 452, 452, 452, 452, 454, 428, 468, 428, 428, 412, 424, 420, 424, 424, 436, 436, 436, 436, 436, 436, 436, 444, 448, 448, 447, 467, 467, 467, 467, 467, 467, 470, 470, 470, 470, 470, 470, 470, 498, 498, 498, 499, 499, 499, 499, 499, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 411, 411, 411, 411, 411, 411, 411, 411, 411, 511, 411, 411, 411, 411, 411, 49, 511, 49, 49, 411, 411, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, and 511 and 511 and 511 and 511 and 511, 49 and 511, 212, 212, 212, 212, 212, 212, 212, 2 2 212, 212, and 1. On Tuesday, January 30, 2018, the merger of verbal questions was not discussed until the meeting of the talks of the work until the Court of the Law of Law, number 454, was completed. Until the meeting of Wednesday (January 31, 2018) was completed by the 420th legislature of the Law. Until February 01, 2018, Thursday's merger of 510 rows to the end of the talks of the law bill, It's 24 a.m. at the top of the compounds. In the event that the daily schedules are incomplete at 00, they will continue to work until the daily schedules are completed. 437, 445, 449, 450, 452, 454, 4555, 468, 484, 496, 500, 512, 420, 424, 436 and 444 are the main laws in accordance with the Article of the Law and the Article of the Civil Code on the agenda of the Turkish Parliament, according to Article 128. It's recommended. Members of parliament, a paragraph was read missing while reading the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal. Now I'm going to reread this paragraph: On Thursday (February 1, 2018) it is Friday (February 2, 2018) at 14. Until the meeting at 00, the meeting of the Law Bills and Proposals and other jobs from the Commissions were discussed and the talks were completed until the 510th Bill of Law were completed. To explain the motive of the proposal, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the proposed member of Bilecik is Mr. Halil Eldemir. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0141par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the basis of our group's proposal for the 19th Amendment. I hereby salute you, and in the sight of you, our beloved nation. If we live in peace and security in this land today, if we can work comfortably under this roof, it's because of our martyrs and our veterans. Our saint and necipite nation has watered every inch of this land with martyr blood for centuries. I hereby welcome our heroic soldiers and all our martyrs, who were first martyrs of Operation Olive branch. To our glorious army and to our security forces, I ask the Lord God to grant me blessings. Mr. President, dear MPs, our group proposal is related to the Parliament's work schedule. There have been 31 decrees in the law of the State of Emergency, which have been declared in the wake of July 15th coup attempt, which we have discussed five of them in our Parliament. In the past few weeks, the main opposition has been persistently demanding, especially serious and persistent, that the provisions under the law should be brought to the Assembly General Assembly and that they should be discussed. And here we were, last week, saying that we'd discussed five of our oratories and of all the demands that we've made, and then the Assembly, the General Assembly, had its own agenda, and that at this point, the groups would be able to carry it with the General Assembly in an agreement between themselves. And now we've programmed this group in our proposal for 26 waiting, 25 in rows, five of the rulings to be completed today, seven tomorrow, and the rest on Thursday. The group welcomes our proposal to the discretion of the General Assembly, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0142par0174	Thank you, Mr. Eldemir. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Your time is three minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0143par0179	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party, and I salute you all. On the basis of this group's proposal, the state-of-the-art law passed so far has brought up the issue of meeting the provisions in the General Assembly, and as the National Movement Party, I would like to point out that this proposal is in place and we consider it necessary. Again, on 21 days before that, on 9 January, I'd like to repeat a call from this bench again with your permission. Our proposal as the National Movement Party Group was: "We believe that we can agree as all groups on the meeting of these in the General Assembly, especially the State of Emergency decrees. We have invited all groups to come together and immediately take a common position in order for the law to be passed. Today, we rejoice to see that meeting with four groups on the agenda of the General Assembly is an important development. And we, the National Movement Party, will make the necessary contribution. As you know, the total number of KHKs following July 20, 2016 has been legalized in total 31,5. Twenty-three of them are on the agenda of the General Assembly, and one of them is on the commission, and I think that will be discussed tomorrow. But there is another issue, which, hopefully, will be brought up at a time when the General Assembly's agenda is available, which is: apart from the extraordinary state-of-the-art Turkish Parliament, which was released after July 20, 2016, has been on the agenda of the General Assembly for perhaps over 30 years -- according to our findings -- of the 268 legislature. This 268 is a decree issued on the basis of the previous state of emergency. We, too, benefit from a joint understanding of this as a group at a time when the General Assembly's agenda is available. This, unfortunately, has not been discussed in the General Assembly, although a distance has been taken in the past 24th term. Hopefully in the future, we'll be able to discuss the rulings on the other legislatures on the agenda of the General Assembly, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0144par0184	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Mahmut Toğrul of Gaziantep... Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0145par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. I hereby salute the employees of the General Assembly and the General Assembly. Mr. President, after the coup attempt on July 15th, the four political parties here, the four political parties in Parliament, have taken a common stance against the coup, and at the point that no one has a reserve for the coup, unfortunately, on August 20th, the government declared a state of emergency in this country without need. It went further, and immediately after that, 31 KHKs were released in a number of issues that have completely eliminated social life, violated everyone's right to live, their right to work, and were not even connected to the coup, were not connected to the coup. Now, in many ways, these SECs were also contrary to the Constitution, but the Constitutional Court did not see in itself the authority, power, and courage to study the breach of the Constitution of these KHKs. What did he do? He surrendered to the government. In fact, he surrendered to one hand. Legislature, execution, judgment have accumulated a hand, and unfortunately, in this country, all the press, expression, work freedoms have been completely destroyed. Let there be no war in this country, let there be peace in this country." "and keep the children from dying." Many people have been laid off from their jobs, even tried to face various punishments, until the Teachers of Ayşe, who are now being tried. Now, in these conditions, an entire chaotic state has been in a state of war, and now there is no need for this country to attempt an invasion of Afrin, an operation that has not been detonated in a seven-year war since the Syrian Civil War. It's really nothing more than building an outside enemy to carry out this chaotic state created within the country and strengthening the power of one person. When you haven't been thrown a pebble out of the area in years, it's actually a way for you to make it look like a threat to the community today, just artificially and, in essence, to strengthen the unresolvedness of the Kurdish issue in its own country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, in the last 30 seconds...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0146par0194	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0145par0195	This is not the debate of the KHKs in parliament, this is not the law of the Turkish Cypriots; this is the immediate withdrawal from the country's agenda. If all of us are to live in this land equally and justly, if all will feel secure, then the sword of this Damocles is to be drawn upon all, and I salute the assembly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0146par0197	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Free Special. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0147par0202	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We face a rare situation in parliament, we support the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, and that's why we drew our own group proposal. He just spoke on behalf of the valuable orator Justice and Development Party Group. For months, years, weeks, we've been telling you to bring this group proposal, we bring it in, you deny it, we bring it in, you deny it. And he said: "The main opposition party has said in particular, and we have always said that we can do this, but this is why the main opposition party says that because we are loyal to the oath and the Constitution. The 91st Article of the Constitution states: A State of Emergency is taken out by the Council of Ministers, headed by the President of the Turkish Cypriots, sent to Parliament on that day, published on that day; within 20 days, the Commission shall be lawd in the Parliament on the 30th day. For example, the 670 that you're about to discuss. The Council of Ministers, which released the LUK on August 17, 2016, has not been discussed for 18 months -- 18 months. Seventeen months we've been calling it a violation of the Constitution. Your president says: "The mark of the horse has been mixed in the trail. The age burned next to the law. (For this matter, the age of burning near the dry is looking for the authority to tell the story of God.) I will not look into the KHKs. He said, "You have surrendered to you, and you have broken down the Constitution for 17 months. Today, there is a situation in which the Constitution is in violation of the Constitution, unlawful resistance to the Constitution, and a challenge to the national will, and an error in a civil coup, the longest of which is 18 months, and the shortest of which is a few months, of course, we support it. We'll work all the way through the morning if we have to, but at least for the age that burns next to the dry, for the processes where the trail of horses is put under the feet of the law and no one feels secure, we care about opening the legal path, but how does the Constitutional Court behave in the future, in this court order, in this surrender process, do they remember their diplomas, their vows? And whatever you put in there, he gave you an open check in violation of the law, and you said to apply snow tires, frost tires, subcontracts, that you wouldn't look into it. But now he's going to move on to a process where he can look inside. That's right, it's an important step. It has to be delayed, it's extremely shameful, it's a black spot period in terms of democracy and the history of Parliament, but at this point, we call what the main opposition insists today okay. If you say that it's late, it's the right thing to do. We support your group proposal. We offer our respects, thank you for your presence.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0148par0208	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, I propose that my main Law Proposal (2/671) be taken directly into the agenda of the General Assembly. Yours truly. As the bidder, Mr. Koğdemir, Mr. Bursa MP... Here you go, five minutes.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0149par0221	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I pray to God to grant our heroic army swift victory, mercy to our martyrs, urgent healings and health to our veterans, unity and unity to our nation. Let these days be a means of staying away from the tefrika, for our hearts to strike together in a way that can't even digest a ball. Let our House carry out its duty as commander-in-chief, which cannot be separated from its spiritual presence by Article 117, in order to free our country from terror and persecution, in order to bring peace and peace to the region. We're going through a delicate phase. The mistakes made by the AK PARTI authorities have accumulated and brought the country to an issue of beka. The last attempt on July 15th was a major trauma to our nation. In the ongoing process, some mistakes have been made. We believe that the Beka issue is above all things, even as a person's right to live in civil law is protected against him, and we support the steps to do so. But our national resistance, our national resistance, has not been as strong as it should have been in the passing of time. In order to tighten their ranks, they continue to camp, polarize, exclusion. Our foreign policy is not successful enough to connect national possibilities with national targets. The language of politics is poisoned. When we're supposed to be the strongest, we're fighting each other and fighting each other. I can say a lot about reasons and what needs to be done, but I don't have time. For him, I'll settle for what I consider most important. I'd like to bring you two countries, Germany and Korea. Until 1949, a nation of culture, geography, infrastructure, material and human capital, technological levels, knowledge levels, education, whatever you can think of was the same, divided in two, and they didn't get to know each other again after 42 years. The same goes for Korea. Although they haven't joined yet, 50 years after they left, in 2005, the average life expectancy in the north was thirteen years shorter than in the south. The conclusion, my friends, is that living together is productive, unsatisfactory and successful, and the explanation that people make the best of themselves, is in culture, geography, subterranean wealth, not in the climate, but in law. When other conditions are the same, it's the law that determines, and the legitimacy of the law is the law. Unlike the other part of Korea, south and west of Germany, a predictable, computable environment had been established, and mankind's savings had been used for thousands of years. Today, law is the most worrying area in our country. What we lack in this area, unfortunately, is not today. His rank has changed, but his nature remains the same, and even in recent years, the situation has deteriorated rapidly. Trust in law and judgment is in places. What was branded as a crime had nothing to do with the crime description in the criminal law entry books. Rewarding-improvement is the key to promotion-damaged mechanisms. Distinguishment, favor, and order have been the dominant style. People who aren't safe and close to the public are equipped with powers they don't deserve. It's not the benefit of attention, love, knowledge, it's the harm. People can't see where they're going, let alone five or six years, not even for five or six months later, because they don't keep an account. Politics is the most important source of law and the basis of legitimacy. Because of this, they usually both get worse or better. That's the way it is in our country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I complete?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0150par0228	Sure, go ahead, finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0149par0229	Politics isn't what it's supposed to be, guys. The decision-making, decision-making, decision-making and control mechanisms have shifted beyond normal political processes. And it's getting more and more natural. Some of the political actors are openly doing their best to keep some of the status quo secret from the other side. The House has been neutralized. I can't run faster than Ahmet, I can't even say Ali, I can't run faster than I can. Politics is a claim to be more effective in agendas, decision-making, decision-making and control than anyone else. But it's not today, it's rude, it's lack of horizons, it's possible that sustaining the status quo with laziness, it's possible that the law and the procedure will be disabled. I don't have time, and I can tell you this: Today, we have many similarities with the time of Jonah. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Today, as it was seven hundred years ago, is the day to come and meet, to make it easy, to love, to be loved, to be loved. Today is the day to take lessons from the Turkish state tradition and keep law, legitimacy and order at the top, the day to defend the freedom of mind and word. This is the way not to do what's called the Isoclical March, or what's called close to our time, as well as what's called yesterday. Let's start by accepting this offer. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0151par0234	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0152par0235	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say something before we vote.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0151par0236	Well, here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0152par0239	Mr. President, the Civil Code provides 37 lawmakers with such an opportunity -- a direct agenda for the commission. It's very true that this law proposal should be raised, but when we look at its content, like Denizli, like Manisa, there aren't many very suffering provinces, but if the motion is made in the matter of the agenda, I'd like to say that we support the motion as the Republican People's Party because the motion can be made and the harm related to the closure of the cities, as well as the law known in the capital city or in the public as the entire city, is going to give the opportunity to address the congressman's proposal as the People's Party.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit03spe0151par0241	Well, thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0151par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will begin negotiations with the Court of Law (1/783) on the State of Emergency, which has been ranked in the 676th ranking state of emergency. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 437 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this decree shall be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the decree in the law shall be discussed in sections after all talks on them are agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters shall be voted separately. The first speaker on the entire legislature is Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0153par0014	Congressmans, I would like to remind you, first of all, to share some information on the history of the ruling that I received from fellow experts in the law when the provisions were being discussed. The ordinance comes to us in 1876 along with the First Legislature. So it's also a matter of direct implementation of decisions made during that period without the approval of the House. Over time, along with the 1961 Constitution -- of course, the name of those provisions at that time is the law in accordance with the law, the law for a period of time -- in 1961 it becomes a decree in the rule of law. In 1971, Nihat Erim made statements about the re-opening of his name, reminding him of the law. Of course, in 1971, the terms are much more intense than the State of Emergency, and in those circumstances, the arguments of the State of Emergency are transformed back into a decree in the rule of law in 1980. The existence of the State of Emergency and the rule of law is in effect with the Constitution of 1982. In time, this activation is implemented in two phases today: the first, under extraordinary circumstances, decisions taken during the rule of law in the terms of the State of Emergency when the President shall rule the Council of Ministers. There are also decrees in the laws adopted by the Council of Ministers under non-existent circumstances, which are decisions made to resolve matters in a rapid manner, and then practices that go to Parliament approval. Today's debate is based on the relationship between the State of Emergency and the CDC. Now, we support the existence of the State of Emergency as a party, and as a member of the group, I speak as a member of a party that has politically believed in the existence of the State of Emergency and voted for the country to continue in order to avoid this crisis and straitening. There's also the inevitability of law enforcement under the terms of the State of Emergency, so it's a matter of running things in a series. Of course, details that are critical can be discussed from the example of snow tires to other derivatives. There's one thing that I really need to focus on here, and I want to remind you, valued lawmakers, is that this series of governments, which is the product of the law that we're discussing as of today, and of the conditions of the State of Emergency, has come as an inevitable consequence. In the country, you have to take immediate decisions and make solutions, and now we're running the country with decrees in the rule of law, and that's what's going to happen? But it's useful to make criticisms like that, but it's also a reminder that we are now constitutionally involved in the presidential government system, but the Constitution will be held in 2019, as a result of the presidential rule system. After that election was made in 2019, there will already be many decrees seen as a decree in today's rule of law as a presidential decree. And the purpose of getting into the presidential government system was to be able to run the government more actively, without getting caught up in red tape, by making instant decisions, right? That's why we switched to the presidential government system. As of today, the state of emergency and the relationship between the Turkish Cypriots have emerged in practices that the President has chaired the Council of Ministers. Tomorrow, the presidential administration system will be passed after 2019, and the implementations following the first election will already come before us as the ruling decision of today's Turkish Cypriot presidency. The presidential decrees must also be enforced here, offering parliamentary approval within three months at the latest. Thus, we may say that we are now busy exercising the practices that will be followed by 2019, or rather, I wanted to start by making an analogy and such an assessment. And when I look at the issues that we've been reviewing, 29/10/2016, there's a lot of abuse in the terms of the rulings, and that's why this area was put in there. Why was it put here? There are no issues to be called because we see a series of regulations on defence and security, about judicial issues, about the real agenda of our country, about the change of legislation on the supply of security personnel. But as the debate is being held in this framework, what we'd much like to focus on is the issue of the Turkish nation's agenda, the agenda of the public, and the agenda of the Grand National Assembly. So as of today, Turkey is normal. It's really not normal, it's extraordinary, and if you lift your head up a little bit, you'll see on the screens, you'll spend a little time, you'll work, you'll work overtime, you'll see it right next door. As of last night, I was in Hassa district of Hatay, where I made some contacts in the Krikhan-Hassa-Kilis triangle. I saw the heat of the conflict in the area, I observed the heat of the fight against terrorism, I observed it. Your country is truly extraordinary... and I've seen that politics and soldiers and citizens in the region are busy with extraordinary agendas. It was another drama to see the state of the mosque that was attacked at 2:30 that night in the church, and on the other hand, it was another emotion to see Mehmetçik fighting terror in a brutal way. Congressmans, it is important to point out that using positive values sets, some rhetoric can be developed, such values within the framework of basic rights and freedoms and human rights can also be made open to abuse areas. One thinker says: "The lies that are true in the best lies are the lies that are true. " You can sprinkle some of the truth into them, and then you can make some perceptions. First, you must know that the state of the Republic of Turkey is fighting terrorism, and the state of the Republic of Turkey is not in a state of war. It is once wrong to use a concept based on a reciprocity by equivalence between the two countries, calling it a battle. The state of the Republic of Turkey has two strategies when fighting terrorism: First, it wants to create the security corridor of its country, which is at least 400 kilometers [910 km] of a border with it, from the region of which the PYD and YPG are trying to take over, where it dreams of the boutique states. The United Nations Agreement also retains its rights from Article 51 of the Article -- international law. On the other hand, the state of the Republic of Turkey, in its own way, does not exist in a limited number of provinces, with 81 provinces; it also has a moral responsibility to the people of its own civilization, which exists from the Seljuclu-Osmanian-creation acquish. In general, the Turkish nation has something to say to humanity, and since people have been subjected to terrorism, it cannot remain silent. The second reason for the existence of the Turkish state in Afrin (Afrin) today is to bring humanitarian aid to people who were moaning about terrorism yesterday in El Bab. These basic approaches have been accepted by a large majority of the community. There are people of all sorts of political views within the acceptance of this general acceptance, which reaches 90 percent, 98 percent, and 98%. While this has been accepted, it is a sad situation in the public conscience that some of the focal points provoke this, transform terrorism into war as terminology, or no to fight terror with the concept of war! Because as of today, you look at the area and you see that the place where the struggle was fought is one of the main headquarters of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). So in the operations of Şemdinli, Eruh 1984, the same Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) who kills babies, kills chickens in the hen, kills his cow in the barn, and kills his people, is being tried by the PYD today to dominate these people by oppressing the people in the region, by building sovereignty over them. On the other hand, beyond the general plain and flat plains of Syria-Turkey, a mountain region of Afrin is an epic area in Afrin, where, when you take a step ahead, the mountain region is preserved in the valley of Bekaa, before going to the valley of Bekaa, where it moves to the valley of Bekaa. In 2003, those who referenced this area in their own culture also established the PYD in Afrin. The PYD is an anti-Syria structure built in Afrin. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish my vows, but about the time...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0154par0024	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0153par0025	Between 2011 and 14 PYD declared this place a canton. Here, through these boutique states, it's a place that's been made into a headquarters, a place that looks like the center of the hall of terror that goes from Amanos to the Mediterranean basin, to the Aegean, to Mughla. The Turkish army today cleans up these terrorist nests and struggles to free the persecuted people from terrorism in the region -- while this cleansing operation -- comforts Turkey. In order not to cloud this struggle, we must show every kind of sensitivity we can. So here, politicalally, the government says, on the one hand, that the ruling environments use this huge support very well, and on the other, that every citizen living in this country should show a separate sensitivity, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0154par0027	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0155par0031	Mr. President, members of the law, I present to you regarding the provisions of the law. Dear friends, these laws of law, you know, have become almost the main element of our recent politics. At first, after the July 15 coup, Mr. Numan Survivor said in a speech, in a month and a half, we'd better hope that we'd get back to normal and get rid of these extraordinary conditions. It's been 18 months now, over a month and a half, but unfortunately, it looks like this is going to go on until the election, and this time, after the election, the House will be virtually out of business with presidential decrees again. It's not a good thing for democracy, but unfortunately, since we've opened our eyes, Turkey can't get out of this stormy situation and move on to a decent democracy. There's a cross-border operation that our friends who spoke before me have mentioned today, which has happened before this, at Cerablus, at Bab. A month before that operation in Bab ▪, I held a press conference in the House. I said, "Friends, look, behind closed doors, it is said that the Aleppo will be given and taken away. And unfortunately, it happened a month after he spoke to me. Today, there are very different negotiations, very different scenarios coming up over Idlib, but unfortunately, those who know it know it, but the first place they need to know, the Turkish National Assembly doesn't know anything about the negotiations behind these closed doors. Of course, I don't want to get into too much polymial about it. Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu said that during his prime minister's term in the Middle East, he would no longer move, move, or move without our knowledge. He said that Turkey was the quarterback in an entire Middle East, and that any further developments would be the primary. If only there was a serious state mind in Turkey, in the interest of all the peoples of the Middle East, the Turks, Kurds, Arabs, Ezidis, Süryanis, Nasturis, Shiites, Alevis, Sunnis -- who live in the Middle East -- could be put in place. Political information is taught a lesson in universities. The world's governments are classified, and there's a rough spread. One: countries that are party poopers and game-makers. So when he's involved in an operation, the Middle East, Central Asia, Africa, Europe, wherever he is in the world, the countries that have broken the status quo and then set up a new order for themselves. There were these countries in history, there are these countries today. Like England, America, Russia, this first category of countries. In history, the Ottoman Empire was such a state, with a talent for partying and playing. The second-grade countries are neither game-breaking nor game-making countries. So there are dozens of such countries in Africa, Asia, even Europe. What if you say there's one in Europe? There's Hungary, there's Bulgaria, there's Norway. But then there's the third category, countries with the power to break game. Now, I'm afraid Turkey's claim to start a game has reached the level of a game-breaker today. Okay, in the Middle East, Turkey is able to block some attempts that Turkey does not accept, that Turkey may pose a threat to Turkey, despite Turkey. What's he got to do with it? He can block it with his political power, block it with his military power, block it with his diplomatic contacts. He still has the ability to break the game, but unfortunately, he doesn't have the ability to play games, dear friends. Now, Cerablus has been entered, and Afrin has been entered, or the independence referendum of Mesut Barzani in Kurdistan has been somehow blocked, and it's been nullified, and then, after this game-breaking strategy, what's going to happen, and what's going to happen? Let's start with Kurdistan Regional Management, Iraq, Kerkuk. For example, there was an apocalypse here, where political parties competed in nationalism with each other about Kerkuk, and what happened today in Kerkuk? As for Kerkuk, the Shiite regime in Baghdad has arrived, Iran's politics has settled, and Kerkuk oils are being sold to Iran today, and that's the actual situation today. So, what did Turkey win here, what did Turkey lose, and I'm putting all of us in it? This is Iraqi politics, Kurdistan politics in Iraq, Mosul politics, Kerkuk politics, where is it now? I ask the friends who talk to the Iraqi Turkmen every day: What problem of the Turks in Iraq has been solved today, and what has happened? So what happened to education rights in the native language, what about their political status, what about their economic situation? It's a much worse painting than it used to be, and it's forgotten, so the worst, the worst, it's out of the picture, and it's out of the picture. Let's put aside the Kurds as Iraqi Turkmen now -- there's nothing wrong with this Parliament, there's no talk. I want to bring the same thing to Syria today. Let's say Cerablus, what happens tomorrow, what happens in Afrin? We entered with 10,000 soldiers, 100,000 soldiers, 500,000 soldiers; in our view, all of Syria, Turkey, where they considered themselves dangerous. So, what kind of order will we then have? What will be the status of the Kurds, Arabs, Sunnis, Alevis, Christians, and Syria? Today there is a stand against the PKK. Who will be the representative of the Kurds in Syria, and what about their legitimate rights? What kind of order is it going to be an autonomy, a federative Syria, a democratic Syria? I'm afraid we don't have any friends who come in here and talk about a project, especially our Secretary of State. What about the Kurds in Iraq, the Turks and Kurds? There's no project there either. I mean, what's the Iraqi government gonna do? Who will Turkey approach, who will support, and who will be in the way? What about economic relations, imports, exports, oil? There's no project on them again. Now, let's get into Turkey. Turkey has faced a process of resolution, and we have spent a few or three years together in Turkey, where peace, brotherhood and peace are all supported by all who are wise. It's all been put on the shelf, you broke it, I broke it, the other broke it, the other broke it, the other ruined it. So, how's it gonna be okay? So it's easy to make polemics here, easy to blame each other. I'm asking questions about Iraq, Syria, and Turkey. What's going to happen next? Where will the Kurdish problem evolve? Now, when all friends are called the Kurdish problem, they point out the present conflicting environment, but we've come to a point today in newspapers that have been supporting power, from the mufit Ascendant Aspiration to Light. So all the elements that are sensitive to the Kurdish issue in the Islamic community, saying things, saying things, and supporting power are being purged, their duties are being terminated. Your papers, your TV articles, your programs are being terminated. For him, dear friends, I find it more appropriate to ask these questions in these ten minutes rather than a classic argument and conflict style. In front of us, in an entire Middle East -- Syria, Iraq, Turkey -- there's a Kurdish problem ahead of Turkey, there's a solution, and unless we discuss a scenario that is more than a game-breaker, as long as we don't go out and convince each other about it, we're all going to lose. All the people who live in this geography will lose, Turkmen and Kurd in Kerkuk will lose, both in Afrin, Diyarbakır, İstanbul, and Ankara. It's a great loss for us to have so many bombs and guns going to the mountains. So we say again: solution, solution, solution; common sense, common sense; project, project, project. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0156par0043	Thank you, Mr. Tan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Muharrem Man of Çanakkale. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0157par0047	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the Order of the 676 Law, and I salute the Supreme Assembly. First of all, I ask for God's mercy on all our martyrs, for patience with their families, for the sake of our nation. In particular, I would like to say that no one in this country, in this country, does politics on the blood of our martyrs, does election investment on the blood of our martyrs; let's not do that to our martyrs, our nation, our Turkish Armed Forces. If we truly support the unity of Syria's unity -- which is very, very important to us -- let us not act with the terrorist structures in Syria. Prior to my assessment of the PKK, the esteemed MPs presented a very important and grave picture of Mr. Erdogan at the group meeting today, and it was made very clear that there was a very clear account with the secular republic. Mr. Erdogan, the chairman of the EC PARTI asked if there is a democracy in these monarchys today, as an example of the monarchys in Europe, and there is democracy here, and democracy in the monarchys, he said. Of course there is, but democracy in the European monarchy is not the result of a monarchy there, but the struggle for democracy for centuries. Mr. Erdogan, the president of the EC PARTY, the king of Spain, the queen of England, I'm afraid, sadly, thinks he's the president. They're not presidents, they're symbolically serving there. The monarchies in Europe, the elected governments, the parliaments. Don't forget that political power centers are parliaments, parliaments, all over the world -- the monarchy, the republic, the presidency, the parliamentary system. So there's an account with the secular republic. So national sovereignty is to be personalized. So national sovereignty is to be removed from the nation and transferred to a family. That's actually the summation of the group meeting today, the AK PARTY group meeting. Because our republic is not only a form of governance, but our republic is also a national sovereignty. Sovereignty is used by the people by hand by the body of the authorities mentioned in the Constitution. Since these bodies -- law, execution, judgment -- have been destroyed by the court regime itself, the separation of forces has been destroyed, now the monarchys are being set up as examples. It's an unfortunate thing to do. The founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey is evident. Instead of crowning the secular republic with democracy, I'm afraid it's no one's place to destroy it, and no one can afford it, and I especially wanted to share it with you sincerely. And today's operation on the Turkish Medical Association as a lawyer, as a member of parliament, I'd like to make it very clear that it's completely illegal. You may disagree, but it's not appropriate for the physicians, university teachers, to raid their homes in the morning like the Ergenekon, the Sledgehammer, the Conspiracy. What's the difference between you and me? If there's going to be an investigation into those people, is it so hard to send an invitation and call them to testify? Why? If you imprisoned the journalists, physicians, academics, people of this country, for their opinion, you would do the most harm to this country, and the Republic of Turkey, unfortunately, lost its dignity in your time. But remember, you can lock people up, but you can't lock up thoughts. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, you know the state of emergency is typical of September 12th coup law. The state-of-the-art regime has entered into our constitution through the Constitution of September 12th, not before that, and unfortunately, you are currently running the country by embracing the coup law of September 12th. You're changing the law with the State of Emergency. You're making general permanent arrangements. However, the State of Emergency provisions must be eliminated when the State of Emergency is over. The State of Emergency regime must be used to fight the State of Emergency, which is what the State of Emergency requires. As Erdal Inönou said, the state of emergency is actually bound to the rule of law of extraordinary unlawful conduct. Here is the meaning of the State of Emergency, in fact, the typical practice of September 12th coup law, and unfortunately you continue to drag Turkey into a disaster under the State of Emergency. Now, let's take a look at the general council, which you've taken on the agenda of the General Assembly, without being presented to commissions, without being discussed in commissions. As a lawyer, I think that all of these KHKs are ruled out because after they are published in the Official Gazette, after they have been published and published in the Official Gazette, after you have interpreted the Constitution and the Civil Charter provisions together -- within 30 days of this General Assembly without discussion, without discussion, without decision -- the KHKs that are in effect are under the rule of absence. You are now leading Turkey with a major lack of law. These practices have no legal basis because in 30 days, you did not, unfortunately, make a decision. Now, I'm going to read from the content of the KHK, which we're talking about, a provision that makes changes in the Traffic Law of Highways: ▪ Drivers who don't have a registration certificate in the vehicle or who have a registration plate attached to a different place are given an administrative fine of 92 Turkish lira. You are making changes in the Traffic Code of Highways. Why? What does that have to do with the fight? Isn't that the purpose of the State of Emergency? You see, the provisions you've made in many laws have nothing to do with the fight against. You're also doing great damage to the struggle, unfortunately. In fact, you can't fight because, unfortunately, since the AK PARTY is a parallel structure, he can't show this challenge from the heart today either. You turned the State of Emergency into an opportunity after the July 15 coup attempt and disabled the Assembly; yes, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been disabled. In Turkey, unfortunately, a court regime prevails, and as the day passes, this operational single man's regime is being investigated, investigated. Even under the occupation of this country, the struggle for salvation was open to this Parliament in the years of the national struggle, and all decisions were being discussed in the Veteran Assembly, and all decisions were being taken out of the House. In France, where you always set an example...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0158par0058	What are we seeing right now?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0157par0059	You're late, you're too late. See, in France, where you always set an example, the State of Emergency never came out, even during the State of Emergency, the KHKs could not come out. All the arrangements, all the regulations for the fight against terrorism in France, came out of parliament as law, but you couldn't do it. You're too late, yes, we're interviewing the KHK today, but as a lawyer, I think we're actually discussing the rules of non-existence. Of course, the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, is under great plague. When the Constitutional Court issued decrees in the Official Gazette, it looked only at its title, and said, "If it is written in the State of Emergency of the Law, I cannot supervise it." He said, "He should have looked at its contents."
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0159par0062	That's what the Constitution says.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0157par0063	If he had looked at its content, he would have seen that it was actually a rule of law in an ordinary period, and he would have controlled it, because you tried to make all the arrangements with the State of Emergency, turning the coup into an opportunity. What does the presidential election have to do with the State of Emergency, the subcontractor arrangement, and what does economic regulations have to do with it? By suspending democracy and law through the State of Emergency, you have done this country no good, no great evil. Today you take into custody those who want peace, those who want brotherhood today, those who want democracy today, those who want law, and we as Republican People's Party for him...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0160par0066	They're pro-terrorism, pro-PYD, come on!
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0157par0067	Look, the judge decides who's a terrorist and who's not.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0160par0068	Of course, that's why I'm here.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0157par0069	Yes, for us, the PKK-YPG is a terrorist organization, and we're fighting it. That's not what I mean. By destroying freedom of thought and expression, you're doing the worst evil to this country. We will continue to call him democracy, right, law, justice, and we will defend democracy against this authoritarian regime, against this one-man regime, with millions of people because the issue before Turkey is now clear. Democracy or an authoritarian regime? That's the whole point.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0161par0070	Solve the only man in the CHP, then come.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0157par0071	Thank you, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0162par0073	Thank you, Mr. Man. Congressmans, talks have been completed on the entire legislature. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers 1 to 29. I'll submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on that clause if there is one. There's a motion on article 1 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the talks on 437 rows be removed from the Tezkere text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ahmet Yıldırım Mahmut Toğrul Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0163par0087	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0162par0088	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0164par0089	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0165par0090	Motive...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0162par0091	We're reading the motive. Following the July 15 coup attempt, on July 20, 2016, the Council of Ministers' decision 2016/9064 was declared an extraordinary state for 90 days to begin from July 21, 2016 in accordance with Article 120 of the Constitution. This Council of Ministers' Decision was issued in the Official Gazette under the First Amendment of Article 121, and the State of Emergency has been declared in the entire country, with the approval of Parliament 21/07/2016 and 1116. At the beginning, it was announced by Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım and government officials that the State was only opposed to the coupist structure within the state and that citizens would not be affected in any way, and that it would be short-lived. However, as all of us later witnessed, the implementations of the S.E.C.E. and the O.R.H.H.E.'s everyday life have been transformed into a process that directly concerns the citizens, even envisions putting pressure on the country as a whole. We have also experienced that since July 20, 2016, the State of Emergency, which will be completed shortly, has continued for more than 18 months and has been extended six times, even becoming a regime by political power. In the 18 months of the State of Emergency that we left behind, 31 KHKs were released and only five of them were discussed in Parliament. Although it is contrary to the Constitution with the SECs, hundreds of laws have been changed outside the scope of the State of Emergency and 100,000 public personnel have been removed from their duties illegally. Thus, it has been made clear that the Parliament's mandate to act on Article 7 of the Constitution has been violated and that the State of the State of Emergency issued under Article 121 has not included the issues of the state of emergency. Because there have been changes in hundreds of laws, laws on the rights of public personnel, laws and regulations on the rights of autonomy, the removal of settlements, the removal of parliamentary elections, the introduction of one type of clothing in prisons, the introduction of criminal armor to civilians, the binding of subcontractors of millions of workers, the binding of many important institutions to the President, the changes in the laws and regulations of the rights of the civil staff, the removal of presidential elections, and hundreds of changes to higher education that have nothing to do with extraordinary conditions. This means that parliament will be shut down and the country will be ruled by KHKs under the State of Emergency regime. The basic rights and freedoms mentioned in the second joke of the 15th Article of the Constitution shall have to be the extent of the situation, such as no guarantees can be touched during the State of Emergency. In many SECs, assurances on basic rights and freedoms have been limited, pressured or tried to be removed from the whole. The Constitution also states that if the State of Emergency law can only be enforced during the state of emergency, then the State of Emergency may also be implemented during the state of emergency and should be removed after the State of Emergency is lifted. Therefore, it is impossible to change or remove the laws that are in effect with the State of Emergency. However, the AKP government violated the Constitution by bringing rules to be enforced after the end of the State of Emergency with many of the Turkish Cypriots, regardless of the constraint brought by the Constitution. Our party strongly opposes the country's transformation into a country run by KHKs, where the State of Emergency regime is implemented. By means of antidemocratic laws and practices, KHKs are principledly rejected by our party for suspending democratic order, law, human rights and freedoms. For this reason, it is the basic feature of a democratic country to be met by commissions at the TBMM, which has the mandate to act according to Article 7 of the Constitution, and to be legalized by democratic principles and methods. Therefore, we predict that the provisions in the KHK, which is the issue of this thesis, will be removed from the text of matter. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0166par0097	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0162par0098	Mr. Special, you have a voice request. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0166par0102	Mr. President, we meet in 18 months after the Constitution has ordered that the meeting be held within 30 days. This week, as we've been saying for a long time, the KHKs have been placed in the top 25 places. Because it served the same purpose and in terms of the legal economy, we've just voted yes to the motion in Article 1 on the rule of attorney-restriction, so we've backed it out of the text of matter. From now on, we're not going to issue motions on lawyers who can't do their job, not to discuss lawyers, not to discuss lawyers, if they're going to lengthen the case, whether the demands are to be denied, whether they're to limit the practice of law, whether they're related to law enforcement, whether they're related to safety guards, whether they're to the Coast Guard, whether they're going to take it out of the text of the law, whether they're going to read it or not... as soon as they get into law. But I would like to submit to the High Council's discretion that the vote we vote against the relevant clauses should be considered our group's decision on this issue and a motion to remove it from the text of the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0167par0105	Thank you, Mr. Special. It's in the transcripts. Mr. Yıldırım, you have a request for a word. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0168par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Since it was the first part of the first part of the first part of the ECK, we made only one motion in terms of the economy of procedure, concerning the 1st article. However, if we do not give up the following things, we should not mean that we support them; we are fundamentally opposed to all the provisions of all the KHK. On behalf of some citizens, we also regret to say that the last subcontractors would be recruited as they were a month ago. On the one hand, it includes a so-called subcontractors recruitment clause, while on the other hand, a contract that restricts their rights and eliminates some of their guarantees has been forced to sign guarantees. There's no substance that we support on this basis. The country has not such extraordinaryness, but its usual state and democratic regime; it has the ability to deserve the constitutional order and rule of law, not the KHK. We demand that the government give up on his delusions and cancel them at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0169par0114	Thank you, Mr. Yıldırım, and your word has been made. Now I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are one motions in Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 5 of the Law's Decision to the State of Emergency, in the following way. The following sentence has been added to the first joke of Article 188 of the Law No. 5, 5271. The court will continue in the event that it does not show up without an alibi or that it leaves the hearing. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halil Eldemir Ayşe Doğan Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0170par0132	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0169par0133	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0171par0134	We agree.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0172par0135	Motive...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0169par0136	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 96 of Code 696 is reflected in the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the Fifth Amendment is accepted.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0173par0141	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0169par0142	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0173par0145	Mr. President, thank you. The content of this clause and the motion -- it has been 18 months since the State of Emergency -- has been declared -- and without a lawyer, the provision to continue the proceedings has just been backed by everyone else with a ruling motion. Now that we've seen this KHK here today, we've come a step back to the state of law, which is far from where we are now, and after it's published in this official newspaper, the hearings will no longer continue without a lawyer. At a point when we saw what the other situation meant, we wanted to emphasize once again the Clave's will to discuss the immediate meeting of the State of Emergency. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0148	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halil Eldemir Ayşe Doğan Necip Shield "MEDDE 8-18/3/1924, under the 74th Article of Village Law 442, "a temporary village description "in the form of security, 74th and 18 additional pearls, "the temporary village symbols "in the form of "security, 74th article, " the "security guard" and the same joke, "the "guards in the form of "guards in the form of security, " in the form 74th article. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0175par0163	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0164	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0176par0165	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0177par0166	Motive...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0167	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with Article 690, the additional references to Article 16 and Article 17 of Articles No. 690 are taken out of the text of the article. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 13th Article of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. "Secretary guards and security guards assigned under Article 74 of Law 442 to come after the declaration of registration and documents authorising the third joke of Article 7 of Law 13-6136 and security guards assigned by Article 442 and security guards assigned to the village or neighborhood mayors and municipalities who have the most access to carrying or possession of one weapon, and documents authorised by the Fifth Amendment. "For those convicted of crimes committed with a firearm, and for those sentenced to more than a year in prison, except for incursion, they cannot be allowed to carry or possess firearms, even if they are pardoned. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Hasan Basri Kurt Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0178par0186	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0187	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0179par0188	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0189	Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0180par0190	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0191	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 4 of Article 696 of the Law shall be reflected in the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There's a motion on Article 14 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the declaration of the State of State of Emergency shall be changed into "Defense Industry Undersecretary of Defense. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Halil Eldemir Necip Tetovo Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ayşe Doğan Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0181par0206	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0207	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0182par0208	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0209	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 41 of Article 41 of Code 696 is reflected in the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 16 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 16th article of the Law shall be removed from the text. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halil Eldemir Ayşe Doğan Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0183par0223	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0224	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0184par0225	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0226	I'm having it read. The provision envisioned in this article is removed from the text because it has been passed by motions to Article 112 of Law No. 6756. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. There's a motion on Article 17 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 17 of the Article 17 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 437, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halil Eldemir Ayşe Doğan Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0185par0239	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0240	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0186par0241	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0242	I'm having it read. The provision envisioned in this article is removed from the text because it has been passed by a motion to Article 16 of Law 6755. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the 19th Article of the Law on the Compromises of the State of Emergency 437, which is being held in the following way. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halil Eldemir Ayşe Doğan Necip Shield The following temporary clause has been added to the Law 19-2803. THE 7th Parliament is run by the Ministry of Interior on the basis of the agreements on education and co-operation with foreign countries currently under way with the General Command of the Gendarme. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0187par0259	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0260	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0188par0261	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0262	I'm having it read. The amendment to Article 22 of Article No. 690 is reflected in the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 28 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 28 of the Article 28 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 437, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Halil Eldemir Ayşe Doğan Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0189par0285	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0286	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0190par0287	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0288	I'm reading the reason: The provision envisioned in this article is removed from the text because it has been passed by a motion to Article 23 of Law 6757. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. It has been removed from the text of matter. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0191par0294	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0295	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0191par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. The Parliament has just removed the item from the text of the law, allowing special operations to be taken without the request for a public staff selection exam with the state of emergency, which is currently under the control of the KHK, and is again wanted for KPSS. I'd like to point out to the Minister how many special operations personnel were taken before the KPSS was asked during this period, if he had any information, if he had it, if he didn't, if he was going to send it in writing, it would be enough for us.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0298	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Secretary, now...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0192par0300	I don't have any information with me right now.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0301	Well, it could be written later. Thank you. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in section one have been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers Articles 30 to 57. I'll submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion on Article 30, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 30 of the Article 30 of the Law shall be removed from the text in accordance with the State of Emergency. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Hasan Basri Kurt Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0193par0315	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0316	Government?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0194par0317	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0318	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to this article is removed from the text because it has lost its ability to implement it under Article 62 of the Code No. 696. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. There is a motion on Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 31 of the Law's Article 31 of Article 31 of the State of Emergency of the State of Emergency in which 437 is being held. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Halil Eldemir Mehmet Doğan Kubat Necip Shield Hasan Basri Kurt Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0195par0331	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0332	Government?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0196par0333	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0334	I'm reading the reason: The amendment to this article is removed from the text because it has lost its ability to implement it under Article 55, Article 55 of the Code of Law No. 696. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 35 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a motion on Article 39: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 39 of the Article 39 of the Law shall be removed from the text of the State of Emergency. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0197par0354	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0355	Government?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0198par0356	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0357	I'm reading the reason: The provision envisioned in this article is removed from the text because it has been passed by a motion to Article 36 of Law 6755. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Matter is removed from text. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a motion on Article 41: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 41 of the Law shall be removed from the text. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Necip Shield Hasan Basri Kurt Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0199par0371	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0372	Does the government agree? - We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The provision envisioned in this article is removed from the text because it has been passed by a motion to Article 21 of Law 6755. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Matter is removed from text. There's a motion on Article 42 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the number of interim substances added to Law 2803 and the number of interim substances added to Law No. 2803 should be identified as. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Lütfiye İlsen Ceritoğlu Kurt Necip Tetovo Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0200par0387	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0388	Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The measurement of matter numbers is provided. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 45th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 46th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 49th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion on Article 54: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 54 of the Article 54 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 437, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Necip Shield Hasan Basri Kurt Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0201par0414	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0415	Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The article no longer has the ability to apply is removed from the text, since Article 203 of Law 694 has been lifted from effect by Article 203. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. There is a motion on Article 55, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 55 of the Article 55 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 437, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Lütfiye İlksen Ceritoğlu Kurt İsmail Tamer Necip Tetovo Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0202par0430	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0431	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm having it read. Article 3 of Law No. 6757 concerning the adoption of Article 671 shall be removed from the text of the non-needed substance, as Article 3 of Law No. 6757 shall be observed in this article. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. There's a motion on Article 56, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 56 of the Law's Article 56 of the Charter of the State of Emergency of 437, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Lütfiye İlksen Ceritoğlu Kurt İsmail Tamer Necip Tetovo Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0203par0446	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0447	Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm having it read. Subsequently, Article 6 of Law No. 6757 concerning the adoption of Law No. 671 shall be removed from the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. We now begin the talks of section three. The third chapter contains the interim Article 61, the interim Article 3, the temporary Article 4, the interim Article 5, the interim Article 6 and the interim Article 7 of Article 58 to 73. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion on Article 58, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 58 of the Article 58 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency, which has been held in 437 rows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Hasan Basri Kurt Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramadan Can Ismail Tamer Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0204par0467	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0468	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: Article 35 of Law No. 6756 concerning the adoption of Article 669 shall be removed from the text of the item that is not needed because the regulation prescribed in this article is admissible. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Congressmans, this is how the clause is removed from the text. There is a motion on Article 59, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 59 of the Act of the Law be removed from the text of Article 59 of the State of Emergency. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Halil Eldemir Ayşe Doğan Ramazan Can Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0205par0483	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0484	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: Article 37 of Law No. 6756 is removed from the text, since the provision prescribed in this article is sufficient. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Matter is removed from text. I submit the 60th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 61, I submit to your votes the interim Article 3, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 61 Interim Article 4 that I'm going to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the Article 61 of the Law shall be replaced within a year in the interim Article 1325, which is added to Article 1325, in accordance with Article 1337, in accordance with Article 61 of the State of Emergency. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can İsmail Tamer Ayşe Doğan Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0206par0501	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0502	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 42 of the Code No. 694 is reflected in the text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 61 of the Interim Article 4, those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 61, I submit to your votes... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 61, I submit to your votes... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Article 61, I submit to your votes... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 62, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 62 of the Article 62 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 437, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0207par0520	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0521	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: Article 43 of Law 6758 is removed from the text, since the regulations envisioned in this article are sufficient. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Matter is removed from text. There's a motion on Article 63, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 63 of the Article 63 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 437, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can İsmail Tamer Ayşe Doğan Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0208par0536	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0537	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: Article 11 of Law 6757 is removed from the text, since the regulations envisioned in this article are sufficient. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Matter is removed from text. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 65th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 67th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 68, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 68 (68) of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency, in the following way. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Hasan Basri Kurt Necip Shield Ismail Tamer "MEDDE 68-11/4/2002, with the following temporary clause added to Petty Officer Number 4752. "Students can be taken from university-related departments of junior high schools in a year's supply activity from the time this clause is in effect. The procedure and basis for transition to vocational universities of applied sciences are determined jointly by the Ministry of National Defence and the Higher Education Board. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0209par0558	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0559	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 130 is reflected in the text under Code No. 694. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 69th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 70th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 72nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 73 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the third section are complete. Now, let's begin the talks of section four. The fourth section includes articles 74 to 92. I'll submit the clauses in section four to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit the 74th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 75th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 76th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 77th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 78, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 78 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Hasan Basri Kurt Necip Shield Ismail Tamer "The following article has been added to Law 78-5580. "EK MADDE 2- In addition to private teaching courses with schools and other names can not be opened or operated, teaching programmes cannot be created, in person or by a way of private teaching institutions or by means of a public examination, such as testing, level detection exams for these programmes, or by means of a public examination. Such activities cannot be carried out in units such as NGOs and higher education centres of higher education institutions. The municipalities can open free courses under joint co-operation protocols with the municipal national educational directorates and approved by the Ministry for support of knitting training programmes. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0210par0591	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0592	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The amendments to Article 34 of the Law of 678 are reflected in the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 79th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 80, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 80 of the Article 80 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 437, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Hasan Basri Kurt Necip Shield Ismail Tamer Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0211par0610	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0611	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The regulation included in this article is removed from the text, as it is added to Article 4 of Law No. 6755, due to its law enforcement. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Matter is removed from text. I submit the 81st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 82: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 82 of the Law shall be removed from the text of Article 82 of the State of Emergency. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Ismail Tamer Salih Cora Necip Shield Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0212par0627	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0628	Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The regulation included in this article is removed from the text, as it is added to Article 1 of Law No. 6758, due to its law enforcement. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. I submit Article 83 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 84 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 85 to your votes...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0213par0638	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0639	All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Special, you have a request for a word, please.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0213par0643	Mr. President, in fact, the 85th Amendment has passed the vote, but at this point, you have to stress that the president's election has been lifted and has been appointed directly by the President. The lighter part of this was discussed by this Parliament and withdrawn by the joint motion of the four groups. They brought it in with the KHK, and just now, the ruling party has not continued its stance and legalized the issue of the rectory's election, which was taken with its own will and its motion, by accepting it now after long discussions here. This is a historical point, of course, which will be opened to the Constitutional Court, which will go away, but the State of Emergency would have to propose to the Turkish Parliament that this clause be removed from the text rather than submit here. It's possible to do that through a recursion. I present to you the compliments of the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0645	Thank you, Mr. Special. I think he'll appreciate that, the Justice and Development Party Group, as you put it. I'll keep voting the clauses.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0214par0648	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0652	I submit the 86th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 87th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 88, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 88 of the Article 88 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 437, which is currently in session. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Necip Shield Hasan Basri Kurt Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0215par0662	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0663	Does the government agree with the motion? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The regulation included in this article is removed from the text, as it is added to Article 27 of Law 6757, due to its law enforcement. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. I submit Article 89 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 90th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 91st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 92nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0216par0674	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0174par0675	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0216par0676	Before the final vote of the law, we have a request for a reduction, I submit. I submit our request to change the name of the regulation of the State of the State of the Law, which refers to the regulation of the Law, which we have discussed in the text and referred to by the rule of law. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0217par0679	Members of parliament, the re-education required by the Deputy Commissioner will be taken into consideration as the law is written. Due to the materials removed, the necessary provision will be carried out by our president during the draft of the law. Also, I'd like to present a statement concerning the postponement of the open vote, members of lawmakers. The full vote of the ruling under the law is subject to an open vote. In the second joke of Article 145 of the Civil Code, the president may be released to the end of the open voting session or to a specific day of the week, if necessary. Under this provision -- as chairman of my seat -- the entire bill was left open to Thursday (February 1st 2018). An open vote will be held on the entire bill in the part of the agenda to vote on. It's for your information.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0218par0684	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0217par0685	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0218par0688	It's being dropped off on Thursday because we want to move on. Our group also has an agreement, but I think it would be very true if we could make it clear that this is not an example of abuse, and since it's based on the understanding of four groups, it would be appropriate and not set a precedent.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0219par0689	That's right.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0220par0690	That's right.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit04spe0221par0691	Congressmans, I've already done that, using the discretion vested in me by the Civil Code, but, yes, that's what happened on the agreement of the 4 groups. Thank you, Mr. Special. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0221par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin talks with the Turkish Parliament's Office of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey concerning the Court of Justice (1/790) and its directly on the agenda under Article 128. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 445 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this decree shall be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on all of the provisions of the law have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, the chapters will be discussed, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu will now speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the whole rule of law. Here you go, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0222par0013	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Party of National Action on the Law's Decision to establish some regulations in the State of Emergency, No. 678. I salute your committee. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our talks, Operation Olive Branch, which the heroic Turkish soldiers started today for peace, stability, safety, peace and quiet, has completed its 11th day as of today. Bursiya Hill, a highly strategic location 13km from Afrin, has been cleared of traitors. Concrete towers are being destroyed, terrorists are being ripped out of their holding zones, while they are dying, while Rajo, Cinderes and Afrin are running for the center. People in the region, especially Hassa, Çırıkhan and Reyhanli, say they also support the operations of their relatives on the Syrian side, a rescue from terrorists during talks with our citizens in neighbouring villages and relatives in Afrin. Our army is there to ensure peace and security for the nation's security and the people of the region, not to invade the region like the imperial forces. Hence, the region supports this action, embracing our army and slaughtering victims. In particular, attacks on our Kurdish brothers and sisters who have been expelled by the PYD and the PKK are being carried out by rockets launched against Hatay. They're being abused, they're saying they should stand up to them for a reason while they're being abused, but our Hatay people, our Hatay citizens, they don't honor these terrorists. I hereby ask the Lord God to protect and protect all the heroes of Afrin, who have written history, and to bless our beloved martyrs. Dear MPs, after the July 15th traitorous coup attempt on July 21, 2016, the number of state-of-the-art decrees referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been 31. 5 of these provisions have been discussed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly so far, and 25 of them are currently in the General Assembly, and the commission has one ruling. The 768th Amendment, which we are discussing, is in the 12th place, consisting of 2 chapters and 39 articles. This decree came to the Grand National Assembly on 22/11/2016. He's been waiting since then. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to remind you of the extent of the provisions under Code 678. The decision includes the right of security guards to retire to 49-year-olds, the registration of all private or official housing facilities on computers, the giving of information to the general law enforcement force on July 15, 2016, the attempted coup attempt and terrorist acts that were carried out, the taking of the lives of our heroes while dealing with the ongoing actions of these acts, while those of our own people who have been killed are not under the protection of their own children and the fact that their brothers and sisters are not under arms unless they are willing, and the discharge of their right to be discharged in the presence of those under the command of the Special Forces Command, as well as those who have been under the control of these terrorist organizations, or as those who have been subjected to the Ministry of Intelligence and the State Department of Intelligence, and 47 of Laws. Dear lawmakers, there is a three-legged terror problem in front of Turkey that must be overcome and concluded. The first leg of this creates a struggle with ▪ The second, of course, the PKK, and the other, the PYD and YPG alliance that vomited poison along our southern borders. We see a relentless struggle with all of these terrorist organizations, and we're happy to watch it. I pray the Lord God to protect and protect all our security forces fighting them. The Turkish nation was subjected to a brutal and vandalism attack on July 15th. The coup attempt on July 15, caused the martyrship of 250 citizens and the injury of 2,194 citizens. The unbelievers, the unbelievers who used our great religion to exploit pure emotions, gathered up their faith, made a fuss about their service, trying to destroy Turkey. The Turkish nation has stopped this betrayal by shielding its chest. Dear lawmakers, there is no possibility of state presence without justice, of defending sovereignty rights on legitimate grounds. If an innocent person who has no sin is now clawing at the point of slander, struggling to justify himself, anyone who says that he is not just a person, but a human being, who respects human values will be harmed. Treating a person as a criminal without a court order is certainly disastrous and legally meaningless. I'd like to point out the issues stated by our president, Mr. State Gardener. Is the whole state's mind in the fight against Å, or is the process progressing with the zeal and effort of a limited number of states and politicians? Is there a strategy, is a concept prepared, is a political and legal action plan laid out; are its sound foundations, national goals, legal boundaries determined by a clear mind and political understanding? What are the priorities of fighting this terrorist organization, what should it be? Is there a standard definition and description of ▪? How and with what chain of measures will we eliminate the accumulating social cost, the rising prejudices against the state, the victims spreading to the social base? See, I'm saying that they need to be heard. Controversy and polarization between judicial bodies can be accepted in the campaign to eradicate treason is not normal in the public conscience. The cases of the court must be settled quickly, and the ongoing court phases must be issued in the final sentence. Those of you who have received a court order of non-obsession and have been proven victimized have to be reinstated immediately, the victims must be relieved, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0223par0026	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr Mehmet Emin Adıyaman. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0224par0030	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, are on the agenda of the House for ratification of the decrees under the law. In fact, as we've always stated from the beginning, 31 laws have been issued, but the laws of the law had to be submitted to parliament, with regulations in both the Constitution and the Civil Code, in fact, in 20 days at the most, and according to the Constitution, the provisions of the State of Emergency law were to be submitted to Parliament's approval within 30 days. But unfortunately, after 18 months, the decrees under the law were carried out only as a decree of the law; the legislature's legislative authority due to Article 7 of the Constitution was bypassed, and the rule of law was built in Turkey. Now, of course, the law requires decrees. The laws shall be passed in the history of Turkish political history as law enforcement documents, as well as the damage done to this country by a dominant, exclusive leader, who sees the country's only insurance policy, who thinks its personal approach is the only right one, and the mindset it represents. It is also used as a tool for building the ruling regime, democracy, the Constitution and the laws; freedom of freedom of thought and expression; monotheist, totalitarian regime, one step at a time, unfortunately by today's political power. Seeing that the AKP can't rule the country under the usual circumstances, it's the easiest way to make the ruling on the state and state of emergency, to suppress society, to keep the public under duress. The easiest way to create a society that criticizes power, who opposes power, who makes everyone who opposes power shuts down, who forces the entire community to pledge it, who accepts it, doesn't make a sound, who pledges it, is, of course, the regime of the state of emergency, and the regime of the Constitution, which defies the law on its extraordinary condition, and on its parliamentary inclusion. This is the easiest way for the AKP to govern. Other than that, there's no other way to run it, because in the usual circumstances, the voice of the opposition, of course, will rise within the democratic system, expose public reactions, and an unmanageable process will begin for the AKP. So, the simplest way to do that is to put society in a state of law enforcement to drink, turn the whole country into an open prison. Without me, the country will be destroyed. Without me, HDP is the enemy who does not pledge allegiance to me. People who are enemies, university academics are enemies, civil society organizations are enemies, trade unions are enemies, laborers are enemies, workers are enemies, in short, those who do not obey AKP's mentality, and those who do not accept AKP's nationalist and predecessors are enemies in this country. Hence, what has been exposed to the masses who are enemies or enemies is that they have been exposed by decrees in prisons and by law, by firing them, by expelling them from public service. Now, dear friends, yes, the only tool left of AKP and Erdogan's power was the decree of the law. In accordance with the law, all legal regulations that the democratic system envisions are brought into the country's agenda on one night, by the will of one person. But, of course, in order to continue the system of decrees under this law, AKP power needs a constant conflicting environment. He needs to create a constant fear, a phobia, both in the country and abroad, and from the state of emergency to this side, constantly, the whole world is against Turkey. Turkey is in a position to divide at any moment. We're left and right, and we're right and we're right and we're right and we're right and we're right and we're right and we're covered with enemies. So here are some dark forces that are constantly operating in Turkey. Aman, the only leader who can stop this operation is Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Rightist leftist, religious atheist, everyone must be integrated around Erdogan. We're waging the War of Salvation in this country... a policy based on the exploitation of people's nationalist feelings, religious beliefs, but in essence, it's being carried on in this country. But, we know very well that the people of Turkey of 80 million will eventually discover and surely reveal these policies of yours, built on lies, based on lies, based on turning the truth upside down, that the facts will eventually come to light. And then you won't be able to fool these people again. You will never, ever play with this people's nationalist feelings, their religious feelings again. As a terrible power in history, as a totalitarian power, you will go down in history as a government in this country that rules the country by the state of emergency, by the rule of law, by the rule of law, and destroys freedom of expression, democracy. Look, dear friends, the decrees of the law, particularly the provisions of the State of Emergency, are issued according to Article 119 and 121 of the Constitution and must be submitted to Parliament's approval within 30 days, but only 5 have been submitted to Parliament's approval without the order of 31 laws. Are there administrative procedures, appointments or austerities based on the ruling of the 26 remaining laws? Of course, there is not, because according to Article 121, Article 121, and Article 128 of the Civil Code of the Constitution, the existing ordinances were not passed in accordance with Parliament's approval, so all administrative savings carried out on the basis of the ordinances are nullified because there are no provisions in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution, and in accordance with the Civil Code. On the other hand, the provisions in this law are the provisions in accordance with Article 7 of the Constitution. Because the provisions of the State of Emergency law can be issued in accordance with the purpose, the purpose, and the requirements of the State of Emergency. However, when we look at the contents of the laws issued so far, the majority of these laws have brought regulations on matters normally under Parliament's legislature, other than the circumstances or conditions required by the state of emergency. In this sense, the laws of the law clearly violate the 7th Article of the Constitution. Again, dear friends, the laws of the law are decrees that are valid during the state of emergency. When the state of emergency is lifted, all procedures based on the state of emergency, all decrees of the law are forfeited. So, basically, the destruction, the destruction, the destruction of the law decrees are being carried out by the government today, but even though some savings, some administrative procedures are being carried out, all the legislation that he has actually removed, all the laws that he has lifted from effect, all the laws that he has lifted, all the extraordinary state of the law, and the decrees in this law will also fail. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will be in effect. In short, I'd like to say that the AKP's rule of law has become a disgrace to the political history of this country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0225par0043	Thank you, Mr. Adıyaman. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Kazim lion. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0226par0047	Mr. President, I have been promised to discuss the Constitution of 445 and to speak our thoughts on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I salute you all with love. The 445th Amendment, which we are discussing, consists of 39 articles. Every time we look at each article, we see that even if it really is indirect, that this material is not related to the state of emergency, that there are things that need to be discussed and settled in the House, that need to be done with the law. Therefore, I would like to make it clear that the entire rule of this law is unconstitutional, and I would like to ask all of our fellow lawmakers to issue a motion of rejection so that the ruling of this law does not be legalized. If there is a decision to adopt, we will have to expose the difficulties of this law to the Constitutional Court as the Republican People's Party Group and ask it to be annulled by the Constitutional Court in order to prove its violation of the Constitutional Court, and we would like to do so. Dear lawmakers, the 121st article of our Constitution has a statement exactly as follows: The provisions of the laws issued during the state of emergency should be made only to be connected with the State of Emergency, to be relevant, and to eliminate the reasons necessary for the State of Emergency, but in many of the laws that we have discussed today, regulations have been made in different areas, contrary to the Constitution. My dear friends, we are a social law state. We certainly can't ignore our principle of being a state of law; if we do, we will first undermine the trust of our citizens in our country, not guarantee tomorrow, and certainly undermine the image of Turkey in our international relations abroad. So, given the view of the business world in our country and its criticisms in this area, I would like to point out that such regulations should no longer be carried out by the law, but by our Parliament. My dear friends, in fact, there have been decrees in law enforcement in so many unrelated areas that we can see that regulations that constitute the basis of the state are being made and are being implemented in matters that have absolutely nothing to do with the State of Emergency. Now, let's take a look at the provisions of the ordinance that we're discussing, and look what he's doing. The second, third, fourth amendments are being made in Article 1774; they have nothing to do with it, my dear friends. The 5th article is the same. The 6th Amendment to Building Law 3194 is being changed, what does it have to do with the State of Emergency? Please, we have to evaluate this. We have to see. The 7th and 8th amendments to the Coastal Law are being made, are they related to the State of Emergency, my dear friends of the Coastal Law? So, what are we going to do, do we really have the means to eliminate the State of Emergency by making arrangements for the Coastal Law? Well, if that's not the case, then these arrangements really need to be made in the House, not in the legislature. Again, the 9th Amendment to Highway Transport Law 4925 has nothing to do with it, my dear friends. The 10th article contains a change in the Public Financial Management and Control Law, number 5018. The 11th article is being changed by City Law 5393. My dear friends, my dear friends, when we really, I mean, look at the content of these laws, we see that there is no connection to the State of Emergency. Again, there is a change in Turkish Armed Forces Act 926 in Article 13, 14, 15. The 16th Amendment is being made in Law 5510. The 17th and 18th amendments are being made in Law 1325. The 19th article, the 20th article, and the 21st article are being changed. Again, changes in the Higher Education Law are being made in the 23rd and 24th Articles. Does it have anything to do with the State of Emergency, my dear friends, members of the Council? Now, again, Law 3359 is being changed by Article 25, which is called Health Services Basic Law, my dear friends. Subsequent 26 is the amendment to unemployment insurance Act 4447. Law number 4456 is being changed in Article 27 concerning the establishment of the Turkish Development Bank. Does the State of Emergency and the Banking Law have anything to do with it, my dear friends, how can they be involved in such an arrangement? So that's it, in this Congress with 550 MPs, we put that aside, where we're trying to run the country in accordance with the laws set by the ruling members. Again, Law 4562 is being changed, and Law 4706 is being changed. Dear lawmakers, in power -- in a biased way -- you're eliminating the state of law with this arrangement that you're doing on purpose, with the President's July 15 coup attempt, you're trying to maintain a state order that you're suspending the Constitution. What is the result? As our peace is broken within the country, as dissolutions are increasing, so are pressures on the business world, as are pressures on many people, and fears are increasing. No one can be involved in an effort to re-invest, to do business, to work comfortably, to turn their business around, to turn their business around in fear. There's a point. And these people don't invest, they don't expand their business, they count. Unemployment is increasing. So in an environment where unemployment is increasing, problems seem to increase, my dear friends. And, my dear friends, when we look internationally, you listen to a lot of criticism, and you say, "What are you doing in our business?" No such thing, my dear friends. You cannot isolate Turkey from international relations. Certainly, you must maintain good relations in both political and commercial areas, especially with your neighbors.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0227par0070	It's reassuring.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0226par0071	Yeah. If you don't keep this up, you'll be under a lot of pressure, a lot of fear, a lot of terror around you. Then you try to eliminate the issues you can't handle in your own country within the borders of other countries, within the territory. My dear friends, surely and surely Turkey must give up the OHL as soon as possible, and Turkey must normalize. Indeed, if we want to restore international financial institutions, investors' trust, direct investments in Turkey, if we want to make Turkey a developing country again, we must quickly normalize Turkey and give up these State of Emergency practices, which is very important. Therefore, I'm especially warning you. I want a mistrial denied in this court of law. I salute you all with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0228par0078	Thank you, Mr. lion. Members of parliament, talks have been completed on the entire legislature. Now, I would like to submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 21st article. I'll submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on that clause if there is one. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 14 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and offer the addition of the declaration of health to the 14th Article of the State of the Law of Emergency, which has been held in 445 rows. Bornt Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mehmet Altay Halil Eldemir Ramadan Can Hilmi Bilgin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0229par0105	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0228par0106	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 19 of Article 696 of the Law shall be reflected in the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 15 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 15 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Bulent Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Mehmet Altay Hilmi Bilgin Halil Eldemir " THE first joke (b) of Article 68 of Law 15-926 (b) has been added to the sentence "to the fourth sentence "to the following sentence of the following sentence "to come after a year's notice on their assignment " (two years) and the following phrases to serve directly under the Command of Special Forces (Special Forces). The age and other entry conditions for those who will be credited to serve directly under the Special Forces Command are taken into consideration by the Chief of Staff and determined by the Ministry of Defense. ▪ The probationary period for those who have been called upon to serve directly under the Special Forces Command is two years. Petty Officers who serve directly at Special Forces Command are subject to training at Special Forces Command, regardless of their class. Those who fail to succeed in these trainings, except for health reasons, will be cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces, and other than their monthly expenses from the state will be collected from them, along with legal interest. Those who fail for health reasons attend the next semester's education. Those of them who fail in second term training for health reasons are appointed to their classes and rank by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Those who were appointed out of the Special Forces Command after being named Petty Officers to serve directly at Special Forces Command are also subject to training for their class. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0230par0124	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0228par0125	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: Additions made by Article 21 of the Law of 696 are reflected in the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 17 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 17/6/1985, the State Department of National Defence, dated 10/6/1925, under the State Department of State, and under the State Department of State and the Commands of the Navy and the Air Force, we propose and propose that the declaration of the Law Against the Constitution be removed from the text and taken out of the text. Bornt Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mehmet Altay Halil Eldemir Ramadan Can Hilmi Bilgin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0231par0141	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0228par0142	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The amendment to Article 31 of the Code No. 696 is reflected in the text. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 20, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Bulent Turan Ramazan Can Mehmet Doğan Kabbat Mehmet Altay Hilmi Bilgin Halil Eldemir "MANDE 20-21/4/2005, and the fourth article of Article 30 of the Law under which there is a amendment to the provisions of some Law and Laws No. 5335. "j) Retired officers and petty officers assigned to conduct services for staff and military student procurement activities in the National Ministry of Defence and its affiliates under Article 36 under Turkish Armed Forces Act 926, dated 27/7/1967 and 926. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0232par0161	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0228par0162	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: In accordance with Article 678, I was added to the fourth joke of Article 5335 of Article 30 (j), which I am compliant with the extension of Article 72 (72) of Article 681 of the Law. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers articles 22 to 39. I'll submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 27 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 27 of the Article 27 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 445, which is currently in session. Bulent Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Mehmet Altay Hilmi Bilgin Halil Eldemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0233par0185	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0228par0186	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The clause in question is removed from the text after the first joke (a) of Article 135 (a) of Article No. 696 of the Law. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Matter is removed from text. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a motion on Article 30, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 30 of the Law's Article 30, in the following way, in the case of the State of Emergency of 445, which is currently in session. Bornt Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Halil Eldemir "The first joke of Article 11 of Public Contraction Law No. 4734, dated 30-4/1/2002, added the following joke to the clause below and to the same article. "g) Real and legal persons with foreign ties reported by the National Intelligence Agency as well as the real and legal persons reported by the Security Directorate that he had any contact with or any of them. "The procedure and the basis for the notifications of the first joke (g) is determined by the Council of Ministers. Those who have been identified as part of the Bent are excluded from the tender, but the sentence on their guarantees does not apply in the fourth joke. The legal, administrative, financial and criminal responsibility of public officials involved in conducting the same Bent operations is not born due to their work and transactions. The person who uses information and records in violation of the law, gives them to another person, or takes them, is punished according to the provisions of Turkish Penal Code 26/9/2004 and 5237.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0234par0205	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0228par0206	Dear Private...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0234par0207	Mr. President, of course, we've chosen a very unhealthy way of living, we've already got sloppy KHKs, they've changed each other. A very controversial substance is being transformed into another very controversial form with a motion, but are we misunderstanding that, from the government or from those who have a proposal... I mean, I read the reason, I didn't understand anything, there's a very short reason. Here's the thing: someone who's connected to a terrorist organization, someone he's involved with, doesn't get into a public contract. Of course, if he's connected to the terrorist organization, if he's involved, he's not in a public contract, which is what he's doing, but he's also an excuse for the criminal responsibility of those who do business and procedures. Here's the need for assurance: a public servant who has no contact and no involvement with a terrorist organization -- because they're talking about classified reports -- if he forbids public tenders, and if there is no such thing and has been wronged, the right to damage and search for his rights is being eliminated. I mean, in the state of law...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0228par0210	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0234par0211	Thank you for understanding. If we didn't misread the substance, which means that if the item is positive, that's not exactly what it means: he processed it, and he sued it. If he hadn't processed me, I'd have gotten a tender, I'd have made money. Okay, that's something else, but if he was slandering me, if he wasn't real, what if he just did it to confuse this business. And it's a decision made with classified reports and all that, and the MIT's involved. If the government or its motioners explain a more specific reason than motive, everyone will understand what we're doing or what we're trying to do.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0235par0214	Thank you, Mr. Special. Will the commission make a statement? I'll vote later.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0236par0216	I mean, we appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0235par0217	Okay. Government? Mr. President, we're joining the motion. There's an arrangement here that restricts the duties of the National Intelligence Agency to abroad. Other than that, there's an additional sentence. We agree with the motion.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0237par0222	But that's not what we're asking.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0238par0223	Don't we have a right to an explanation?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0235par0224	It's not an explanation. Perhaps they can send a written statement later, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0237par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0238par0226	Why, sir? Let the groups make a statement.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0237par0227	But it'll be legal. Let the motioners explain or...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0239par0228	Mr. President, let's get his alibi checked out. About that...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0240par0229	I'll get him to read the reason.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0237par0230	Okay, we've recorded our objection, so if there's any explanation...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0240par0231	Well, it's on the record, Mr. Special. The text of the Article 680 shall be edited to include amendments to Article 65, Article 684, Article 684, Article 3 and Article 3 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0241par0235	If anyone understands that reason, may it be all right.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0240par0236	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of the Law shall be removed from the text of Article 32 of the State of Emergency. Bulent Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0242par0247	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0240par0248	Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The additive with this clause is removed from the text of Article 696 concerning the removal of Article 85 of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 34 of the Article 34 of the State of the Law of the State of Emergency of 445, which is currently in session. Bulent Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0243par0264	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0240par0265	Does the government agree? We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: This clause must be removed from the draft because the amendments to this clause are reflected by the motion of the amendments proposed in the process of enactment of Article 78 of Article No. 676. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Matter is removed from text. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 37: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 37th Article of the Law shall be changed in the following manner, as follows, as follows, as follows, according to the 445th and 445th Article of the State of Emergency. Bornt Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Halil Eldemir "The bail of companies appointed as trustees of the TMSF In companies appointed as trustees of the Fund for Savings 37- (1), the company is first applied to the property of partners, administrators, or third or corporate persons, who have first co-signed in favor of the company to pay off its direct or indirect debts. The Savings Insurance Fund is in charge of the sale of the assets of the guarantors through direct or commercial and economic integrity, with the registration of unsupervised guarantors, which ensures that the company's debt will be paid or that the company's capital needs will be met. (2) The debt is primarily intended to be collected from the original debt or from other guarantors during the continuation of the decision on the trusteeship, including bail, which includes co-existence debts from companies appointed as trustees of the Savings Insurance Fund. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0244par0285	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0240par0286	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The text of Article 679 is edited to include amendments made by Article 6/9 and Article 195 of Article 694 of the Law. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 37 of the Code of the State of the State of Emergency, which has been established in the following 445 rows. Bornt Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Halil Eldemir The amendment provisions issued in Article 694 and the First Amendment in Article 694 are also applied to the following and collection procedures launched as of the date of the decree issued in the Article 694. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0245par0301	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0240par0302	Does the government agree? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The Court of Law 678 is envisioned for the adoption of the interim clause added to Article 196, under Article 694. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0246par0312	Mr. President, this is the end of the KHK. I asked for 35 votes, but I was late, I couldn't make a sound. We've just done this, and Congress has done this: it's moved the KHK to law enforcement regarding the Council of Ministers' strike and postponing of the lockout. What are we doing with this? The city's municipal public transport services and a postponement of bank strikes. When you slow public transportation, for example, by using your power from the production presentation, without organizing workers in the world's major metropolitan areas, what makes life difficult in that city, and the laborer's purpose, what's his problem, what's his problem? We have major cities, we have ruling parties, we have nationalist movement. This gives the Council of Ministers the authority to postpone public transportation in major cities just because it threatens public safety. Let's think of a record, which, in terms of trade unions' right to organize, is an important step back in Turkey from the hundreds of years of achievements of the trade union struggle, and before Parliament even realized what we had just voted for, it was made with this OPEC... this is a statement from me... what if they did something, we should postpone it in the State of Emergency and now take a major step back on the organisation and the strike. For your information, thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0247par0315	Thank you, Mr. Special, your words are on the record. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0248par0321	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0247par0322	The Commission has a demand for a reduction before the vote of the entire ordinance. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0248par0324	Mr. President, we would like to submit to your president the request to change the name of the regulation of the Court of Justice for the adoption of Article 445 of the State of Emergency, to change the name of the Court of Justice to the form of the Law on the Computation of the State of Emergency. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0249par0326	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0250par0327	Just a moment, Mr. Special. Members of parliament, as stated by the Commission, it will be carried out during the writing of the law under the title of the law and in Articles of the Law, in accordance with the amendment of the terms referred to in the form of the provisions issued and in accordance with the laws issued. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0251par0332	Mr. President, now that the Commission has demanded a power over redaction, you have said that as president, we will not leave it to you, we will do it. A criticism of the Laws and Decisions that bring this order to Congress. Something that should be here in a month hasn't been here for 18 months, it comes 18 months later. With a motion to edit his name and a motion that we can change all the statements in the text of matter, the Parliament lacks the authority to do so, and that lack is beyond the authority to do so, and perhaps it's not something that we can come back and give you the power to redact. If that's the case, we'll do it as Speaker of Parliament. We're covering one mistake with another, but we'd like to underline the failure and negligence of the government and the Commission. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit05spe0250par0334	All negligence belongs to the Commission and the Government, Your Honor. Thank you. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The full vote of the ruling under the law is subject to an open vote. Article 145 of the Civil Code (2) is referred to as the end of the open voting session or a specific day of the week as required by the president. As chairman of this ruling, the entire bill has been left open to Thursday (February 1st 2018). An open vote will be held on the entire bill in the part of the agenda to vote on. It's for your information. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2018-01-30sit06spe0250par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin the talks of the Court of Justice, number 449, which is ranked in the third place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Court of Justice, number 450, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. After that, it was determined that the commission would not be found, and it was agreed that on Wednesday (January 31st 2018), it was 14 p.m., to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with the bill and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
