tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Bayburt MP Shahap Kavacıoğlu, who wanted to mention the 100th year of Bayburt's deliverance from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Kavacioglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I've made a promise for the 100th year of Bayburtt's deliverance from enemy occupation. I salute the Veteran Assembly. For this country, many of our people have died without blinking. Their mother's henna lambs have been martyred for their country. Do you know what ours is? In World War I, it was written in the Kop Mountains and entered history as the second Plevene. Our defense is important enough to change the course of the Ottoman-Russian war on the Caucasus front. Ours is the story of our mothers who reproached and sent their children to the army, but who lost their children, saying, "Thank God for the land." I'd like to point out that not only our men, but our women, too, took important roles in this epic. This year, we inaugurated the Adjectives of Purity in our Upper Country village. This is vital in representing our nation's courage, determination, glory, and chastity. They died in the heat of the storm to get rid of the Armenian gangs. Once again, I remember our female martyrs who performed this noble stand in the land of Islam. In fact, we Turks are a nation that is not standing in its place, but targeting its own existence, and not just on its borders, but on its own terms, to take peace, peace, brotherhood to the whole world. As you know, in this sense, we're conducting Operation Olive Branch in Afrin. By the will of God, we will return victorious. My dear friends, Bayburt is a bridge of civilization connecting East Asia Minor and the Black Sea. This land, which Grandpa Korak, the wise ancestor of the Turkish world, grew tall and passed down, bears traces of Central Asia. When you enter the city, you will be greeted by the three fortresses of Bayburt, who have witnessed dozens of civilizations with thousands of years of history. The prayer of the martyr Osman Hill meets the martyrs at Mount Kop, and the prayers of his Highness Abdulvehab Gazi on the other side of Duduzar. Many poets, writers, and conquerors, such as the Bayburt mind, Hicrani, and the Holy Father, remind us of the blessings of this land. It's Bayburt, where you still hear the beautiful names of Zakir Peksert, Remzi Ağildak, Recep Breaker, Bural Selman, and the beautiful voices of Bayburt, which still resonate in the old streets. Precious MPs are the cultural city of holidays, weddings, weddings, funerals, Bayburt. One nation, one flag, one country, one state is still a home of values that make us who we are, Bayburt. We are now celebrating this glorious epic with our brothers and sisters from Bayburt all over the world. No matter how far away the Bayburtian is, their hearts are always one and the same. And we work hard to maintain this blessed union, to expand our comfort zone, and then we sign up for valuable investments one after another. The airport is at the beginning of this. As you all know, the construction of Bayburt-Silverport Airport will begin very recently. Moreover, this will be an airport capable of nearly 2 million passengers, not only to Bayburt, but to the entire region. Again, we have a 200-bed hospital that continues to build, a rapidly developing university, about 200 people in open prisons, social spaces, and we have put Bayburt in the mood for a full construction site. Hopefully, in the summer of 2019, when our fellow citizens and you, our esteemed representatives, arrive in our province, you will encounter a very different Bayburtt (Bayburt) than the one you left behind. I'd like to thank Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Finance Minister, and everyone who's done all the work, especially Mr. President, who has signed these services. Yes, as the poet said, tell me, Bayburt. Tell me, Bayburt. I congratulate the 100th year of the rise of our Bayburt, the day of the salvation of all my countrymen, the martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for our country, with mercy and thanks to our veterans. On behalf of all Bayburtians, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you. He got a big round of applause, Bayburt. We salute all of Bayburt. The second unscheduled statement is from Van MP Lezgin Botan (born February 21st) who wants to talk about World Mother Language Day. Here you go, Mr. Botan.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on February 21st, World Mother Language Day. I salute the General Assembly. As it is known, the historical lands of the Bengal people were torn apart between the two countries. The Bengali have been spotted foreign on their own soil. The first work of the Cinnah government in Pakistan was to apply for various games to assimilated the Bengal language and cultural assimilation, banning the Bengal language and alphabet, making Urdu a mandatory language. Because according to the Cinnah administration, demanding Bengal language was a game of communists, foreigners, traitors and mischief, but the answer of the Bengal people was to protect the Bengal language movement. They staged big demonstrations for the native language. On February 21, 1952, protestors demanding their native language were shot, and dozens were slaughtered. During the next period, the Cinnah administration had to take a step back, and Bengali became the second official language. He was accepted as the Day of the Language Martyrs of February 21st in Bangladesh. In this context, UNESCO also accepted February 21 as World Language Day in 1999 to promote cultural diversity and multilingualism. According to UNESCO's dangerous World Languages Atlas data, 43 percent of 6,000 languages were in danger. Again, 15 languages in Turkey are now in danger of extinction. In the same atlas, Cappadocia Greek, Ubsahça and Mlahson are also listed among dead languages. Anatolia, Mesopotamia, and Thracian geography, however, have been in the cradle of countless languages from the past to the present. Each one of these languages has brought great wealth to this land as a historical heritage. Many of these languages have been abandoned to their own destiny since the day one language-based nation was passed on to the state -- when these languages were freely spoken together and moved into the future. But in one language, the ancient languages of this geography were exposed to linguistic policies, not as a wealth, but as a threat. Hence, non-Turkish languages were not recognized constitutionally, were not secured, and public use was not supported and banned as state policy. Dear MPs, who wrote David Crystal, who wrote the Death of a Nation of Languages, answer the question: "Why should we care about the death of tongues? Because we need diversity; language, identity; language, the warehouse of history; languages are a part of the collective knowledge of mankind; languages are a source of interest. Why, then, when it comes to their native languages, do people lose their religion when it comes to language? In what right can those who ask for education in the native language for their citizens halfway around the world declare Kurds separatist because they demand their native language? We see this attitude as selfish, racist, and double standard, and we strongly reject it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0005par0032	We've made some very big arrangements.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0004par0033	Today, the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights has been guaranteed the right to education in the native language and native language in many international texts, particularly the International Convention on Discrimination in the United Nations Education. Turkey's mandate is to lift reservations about models of language rights. In France, where we refer to many administratively today, and in many countries, the native language has been secured constitutionally. Turkey does not even meet the requirement for the Protection of Non-Cultural Heritage Convention, which UNESCO accepted in Paris in 2003 and Turkey was on its side in 2006. In this contract, however, it refers to a different importance of the native language. Therefore, in Turkey, the UNESCO Protection Programme must be put into effect. In the same way, in order to improve the reputation of languages, to improve them to a maximum degree and to eliminate linguistic irregularities, Turkey must immediately sign and execute this declaration, which was announced in 1996 by the United Nations in Barcelona, the capital of Catalonia, as well as by Nelson Mandela, Noam Chomsky, Dalai Lama and Yaser Arafat. If every language is a human, the mother tongue says it's a universe, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0006par0036	Thank you. The third non-responsored statement is from Bursa MP Erkan Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0007par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you with respect and love. First of all, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in Operation Afrin, Northern Iraq, Syria, our veterans, immediate healing, and our nation's condolences. Yes, while our country deals with them on one hand, on the other, according to TİK data, many young people between the ages of 15 and 29 neither work nor train. So let's look at the numbers: 18 million people, 5.5 million of them continue to study, 5.5 million of them are working, 2.2 million are both studying and working, and 4.7 million is doing nothing, so all that energy, potential is going to waste. It's no different in my constituency, Bursa. The unemployment, the poverty. In winter, you know, electricity, natural gas, thousands of cut-off citizens who can't pay for water. But unfortunately, although we've said it over and over again, we can't find an answer to these voices from the power. We're breathing poison in Bursa. According to the latest measurements by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, it is a Bursa on the border with the danger, in the category of non-healthy. Gene, urban transformation: When we look at it, a Doğanbey urban transformation has highlighted how wrong this issue is, as an example of an urban transformation model, which is no longer just in Burma, not in Turkey, but in the world about how urban transformation shouldn't happen. Another topic, Gemlik and the KHK announced on December 24th: "We will carry a KHK and Gemlik." Look, right now life in Gemlik is stopped, no loans, no business; life has stopped, no sale, no buyers, no renovations, no loans. It's chaos and total uncertainty. You have now turned a KHK and a large, 100,000-strong Gemlik, into a ghost town. Hopefully, this will turn faster than wrong, and Gemlik will have her old potential. Lightning and Osmangazi are the same way. There's an onion urban transformation in Osmangazi. You've created a large number of victims by opening up empty spaces and closing people's homes and plots at a cheap price, making a large rantal transformation under the name.... you've made a great deal of people's rights around here. Gene, we went up to Uludağ on Sunday weekend, see what the situation was. There's a cable car in Bursa. Turkey's first cable car is in Bursa. Look, right now, you're paying $38 to get up from the Teleportation District, but if you're a stranger, 57 lira is a long line. Come on, we've understood all this, and then you say, "Why don't tourists come to Bursa?" E people, excuse the tourists- people don't come if you think of them as geese to pluck. Come on, we passed that too; you say faith freedom, by the cable car, if people want to enter the mosque, you put a tourniquet, you get a dollar. Yeah, what's a prayer got to do with money? Let the people go there and do their worship for free. I'm saying you need to get back from this wrong as soon as possible. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Gene, I walked into the small shops in the headquarters of Uludağ on Sunday, 500 yards of tail. I said, "What is this?" Excuse the line of toilets. When you go in there, you get $12 at the door, you get paid for the parking lot again, people come in, but unfortunately, there's no place to go. You've peaked there, you've gathered people, the ministries have arrived, the representatives have arrived, but Uludağ is unclaimed. From what we've heard, it's likely that Uludağ will be marketed again to a Qatar, a Dubai, somewhere. Let's hope it doesn't work that way, because if it does, that beautiful holiday paradise will be ruined instead of being Davos, and I want to underline that. Gene, the four mountain counties of our territory, which are south of Uludağ, are now at a standstill in Orhaneli, Keles, Grandorhan, Harmancik. No work, no food. People don't have any schools to teach their children when they're in their school age, they have to emigrate. It needs to be created as a priority in promoting at least three things -- as soon as we offer it earlier -- at least three things -- that the Ottomans first conquered the Ottoman Empire, where the people who came to it before they built the empire, must be restored to their former state of life, or else life will end there in Uldağ, because of that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0008par0056	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0007par0057	And finally again, the thermal plant in the Orhaneli area. During the Ecevit government, you privatized the thermal power plant, which was founded and served in the 1970s, three years ago, you gave it to a subsidiary company, and that company is currently not running the filters. People are breathing poison, cancers have increased seven to eight times as a result of growing vegetable fruit. There's a filter there, the company is a private company, which, of course, doesn't run because of the cost. We gave this to the Ministry with a question proposal, but unfortunately, we didn't get any response. I'm saying that if you continue to poison this nature, this land, this land, the water of Bursa, the lifeblood of Burma, the oxygen bed, we will all pay for it with the cancer of our children -- God forbid. There's only one of our Bursa MPs here, Mr. Hussein, and I hope he can bring these matters up as a power.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0009par0059	My friend, you're being rude, but you've got us!
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0007par0060	No, I mean in power, the power wing. If not, there's Ceyhun Bey, there's Nurse Hayat, there's all of them. But I wish that this matter could be resolved, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0010par0062	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a commitment to the 15 congressmen who have entered the system for one minute under the Internal Code 60. Mr. Balbay, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0011par0067	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, members of the German daily Die Welt's release of Turkish correspondent Deniz Yücel has been spoken in Germany for days. According to reports released today, two days before the evacuation of Deniz Yücel, Germany is being transferred to the Istanbul consulate and the plane is being held, the Prime Minister is meeting with Chancellor Merkel, and he is released the next day. I'm asking you, should the journalists in prison write the petition for the release of MPs to the German Prime Minister Merkel? Is freedom that cheap? Is freedom so negotiable? You say the rule of law, the law is so superior, and I say it can only be reached through the heads of state, foreign prime ministers, and I say shame on you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0010par0069	Instead of Mr. Topal, Mr. Koksal...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0012par0071	Mr. President, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's comrade in the Liberation War, who organized the people in Ayvalaj to the most beautiful way in the war of salvation, who fired the first bullet in Greek, who did the first in terms of military; who did the Secretariat and Transport Ministry; who did the first in terms of stealing, stealing, corruption, stealing, stealing, stealing, and honest ministry; who showed the best way to do the ministry; who contributed to the construction of the country with iron nets; in respect of the ministry, I am grateful to the four sides of the country, the soldier, the politician, the patriot, the patriot, the national hero, the national hero, the national hero, the man, the man of my honor, Ali Cetinkaya, and the man of my honor.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0010par0073	Instead of Mr. Aydın, Mr. Arik...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0013par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Autismist Murat Esenyurt gets an individual education program while studying normally at the Special Education Centre. This decision reduces the period clock to twelve hours a week by the 30 - hour education of Murat. This decision will be made in October, but it will be delivered to the family in January. Now, every day, waiting at the door for hours for the education of his child, the kiss of his hands asks Mother Heaven: "Why did you reduce my child's tuition to twelve hours when the only known cure for autism is early and should be at least forty hours a week? Why did you apply the decision you made in October in January? I have no one but God, a life, and a life that I have dedicated my life to. From here, I speak to the authorities who block the righteous cry of Mother Heaven, blind in their eyes, deaf in their ears, who have no use for their tongues, who have made their consciences dark: It is a sin, a sin, and give up this decision that you have made.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0010par0078	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey's Education Association's Thought Association (TEDMEM) 2017 Education Evaluation Report has been published. Thank you, TEDMEM, for this important publication that reveals the decline in our educational system. The report is making dramatic assessments. The mandatory educational population is unable to have full access to education. In the last five years, the number of students registered in open school has increased by 65 per cent, out of 100 young people in high school, out of 18. Education management and teacher selection interviews are controversial. The content of the nominee teacher training program is in the possession of religious-oriented references. The hasty changes to secondary school and the transition system to higher education have made students and families tired, still uncertain and worrying. The number of Imam-gap schools is increasing, and the quality of education is rapidly dropping as the number of students increases. It's time for us to get rid of the AKP's power, which has made our education system, which has made students, teachers, and families tired.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0010par0083	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. An arrangement was made for the subcontractors under the 696 Law. Unfortunately, this subcontractor arrangement has created problems instead of creating great satisfaction in the field. They separated subcontractors from the same agency, even though they were doing the same job. Even hospitals are now charging $200 for subcontractorial applications. There are conditions, rules, exams, and a cost of wages; pensioners are left unemployed by practice. In November, underburdeners were left in the middle of their contract. The victims of non-employees at work have not been resolved. New companies were formed in municipalities, and the municipal staff had no workers. In this context, problems have increased, as promises of subcontractors have not been kept. In our country, there will be 1 million, 200 people to be recruited. They were called ▪, very limited individuals were recruited in this sense, and the subcontractor issue continues. To the government subcontractor issue...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0010par0088	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0016par0090	My question is to the Minister of the Forest. Çanakkale, the world's oxygen tank, lies at the foot of the Kaz Mountains. Fresh air and plenty of oxygen with trees. Despite the State's decision, however, the tree massacre continues at the Atichisar Dam, the only source of drinking and watering water for Çanakkale. You can see it in the photos, it's a massacre. Our blood vessels are being severed one by one. Besides, the court order's been in hiding for three months. When will you, as a government, tell this massacre to stop? Now, when you say "Chanakkale," you should think of the perfect air. Don't waste our Çanakkale for the sake of the term, for the sake of the gold, for the sake of the rant. Will you have any work to introduce our Çanakkale about history, tourism, and agriculture, not the massacres of trees? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0017par0093	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0018par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Reports of subcontractors are being heard from all over Turkey, who have not been recruited in a meaningless manner. He did not have 350 staff members who worked for ISU for many years. Sadly, a great discrimination was created among those who did the same work. These 350 personnel have come together to make their voices heard because they were not recruited. These people include meter readers, ladle operators, channel openers, drivers, and a lot of business. The reason it's not being recruited is that at least 70 percent of the cost is that if there's minimum labour costs, there's no labor costs, including the same food and road costs. So you don't work with 70 percent efficiency, so you don't have a staff. However, in the middle of the night, this channel was blocked, and this station was broken. It is called a workforce, but now you don't work at 70 percent efficiency. This is injustice, this is injustice. It's not fair for these people to be cut off. These people...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0017par0098	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0019par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, Down syndrome is not a disease, it's a chromosome difference. About 70,000 Down syndrome individuals and their families in our country have expectations of Parliament. Each year they expect us to support them in the end of their ordeal to receive a report over and over again, to facilitate access to early childhood education and physical therapy immediately after the birth, to expand integration education through knitting, to increase the capacity of nursing homes and rehabilitation centres, to participate effectively in work. There are so many people with Down syndrome that we're proud of, we have to believe and trust them. The comprehensive research motion that I've prepared to discuss solution proposals for all these problems is the first motion I've submitted to Congress on this issue. All the parties, with their power, with their opposition, with their hands in hand for Down syndrome, that's...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0017par0103	Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0020par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. The new professorship bill continues to swing like the sword of Damocles, at the top of the assistant professors. In a central practice that has no precedent in the world, assistant professors will send their academic studies to the members of the Inter-United Council and receive their titles without even taking the oral exam. The oral examination is being lifted with this central structure, but it can be an academic professor. When the person he calls himself a professor, when he goes to school, the university administration will be able to say to him, "Wait, we don't want to do it." This is a harbinger of chaos and unfair staffing in academic circles in the country. A new problem will be added to our educational system, which is already in crisis. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0021par0108	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0022par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to give you a striking example of the subcontractor's law: people driving Fiat Doblo in municipalities and KİTbooks, people using Renault Fluence were recruited, drivers using Audi and Passat alone were not recruited; they were not recruited for 30 percent, 70 per cent, given the cost of rent and cost. We can't possibly accept the possibility of such a thing happening in the government. The drivers did not choose the vehicles they would drive; some of them were Dollo, some were Renault, and some were on Passat and Audi, but there can be no such mistake. In the same way, there are citizens who were sentenced ten to fifteen years ago for criminal crimes; many of them may have earned the right to receive extradition from the court, but they didn't. In two or three days, bring these documents within a week... they were unable to complete them. With an additional arrangement... hundreds of thousands of workers have been recruited by the subcontractor's law... but many people are losing their jobs. With an additional arrangement for this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the victims of car rental companies, as well as those with criminal criminal records, I'd like to put them on the staff, and I'd like to pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0023par0115	Mr. All...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0024par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. The accused of the Ankara Gar massacre, Nusret Yilmaz (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) has been asked to report that the ISIS order Nusret Yılmaz (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) has been transferred to Georgia twice, and has not been taken into custody in either of them. On the other hand, almost every day, dozens of people have been taken into custody and carried out the dawn operations on charges of insulting the President. I'm asking the government: What is the reason for the detention of ISIS's order Nusret Yilmaz? Who will be responsible if the ISIS order terrorist breaks into the country and commits a massacre? How many people were detained or arrested during the State of Emergency for defaming the president? Is criticizing President Erdoğan a greater crime than being an ISIS terrorist? Why were the curfews imposed during the State of Emergency not applied to ISIS terrorists?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0025par0120	Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0026par0122	As it is known, AKP President and President Erdogan visited Kadir Egyptoglu, who was notoriously hostile to Ataturk, at the hospital. Clearly, this visit is more than a human visit to a patient, a encouraging message to the enemies of Ataturk. The point I want to point out is that Erdogan and Egyptoglu's paths crossed in their early teens. Egyptoğlu served as Chairman of the Court at the congress where Erdogan was elected President of the MSP İstanbul Youth Corps. According to the published memories of MSP-based businessman Jakub Al-Kadım, this congress has also been rigged, the votes have been stolen, and Egyptoglu has allowed Mr Erdoğan to become President of the İstanbul Ill Youth Columns, allowing the vote to be stolen. So you see, co-operation and shoulder-to-shoulder between Egyptoglu and Erdogan go back a long way, and election tricks are MSP...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0025par0125	Mr. Sword instead of Mr. Open...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0027par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. We will be like those who were before us, as they were for us. To contribute to peace in this world, we need to find a secret, a secret, and to do so we need to be virtuous and wear human values. For this, there are values that are effective in personality development: respect, love, justice, honesty, self-esteem. The values that regulate our relationships and lives with other people are friendship, responsibility, generosity, charity, entrepreneurialism. Success, science, knowledge, mastery, production, heroism, change are the main things that make life habitable. Sometimes a small activity can be the beginning of a movement that will shake centuries. A drop of rain helps the sea, all values have their rewards. The future depends on each man doing his duty by his own power. People's small contributions form results. We must surround our generations with our values, work for it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0025par0129	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0028par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. You have announced that you have removed the modern system of slavery, which is called "tashion" by Code 696, but, unfortunately, you have discriminated among my subcontractor brothers and created new victims rather than in any area. You also discriminated among many employees, including TIDEMSASAS, State Hospital, and Cumhuriyet University Hospital and other units, and we're going to take my fellow workers into office. As you have not signed them with contracts, you've lost their sweats and labor so far. You've already fooled my people for 16 years and created millions of victims and oppressed. That's enough, I'm telling you to stop these illegal practices and get rid of this injustice immediately and put all subcontractors on the line with a new arrangement. I respectfully salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0029par0134	Thank you. Members of parliament, President Pascal Nyabenda of the National Assembly of Burundi has arrived with our Parliament Speaker Mr. Ismail Kahraman. We welcome them in the name of our coven. (AK PARTY, CHP and UMP in rows) Welcome back with the President of the Foreign Commission. Now, it's time for Mr. Aydemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0030par0143	Mr. President, thank you very much. There's a statement from Emrah, the Erzurumian, Mr. President. It says: "What is Erzurum?" said the scholar. Here, you have to think about the concept of the word "il" as well as the concept "ilim" as well. Erzurum and Erzurum are indeed knowledge. In this case, I would like to register in a special name context: Erzurum's Nefίî. He's shown enough height and a brother to sacrifice his life for the sake of telling the truth. A man who holds hands, and does not kiss a skirt, but speaks the truth for the sake of God. Nefίî is the clearest example of Erzurum....that Erzurum is a very special province, Mr. President. This is what we call "nephemeral stance." I'm just saying this as a sign of the origin of the battle of discovery a hundred years ago. We shall never forget those who left their legacy, and We shall remember them with mercy. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0031par0147	Thank you. Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0032par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. That's very kind of you, thank you. My question to Mr. Minister of Family and Social Policy and to the Minister of Health: Have you made any attempt to help this child, who will be treated with a stem cell and marrow transplant? What is your attitude towards child patients as a ministry? We get this kind of news all the time from the press. I wonder if there's any chance we can solve these events without any press coverage. Do you or do you not have any public awareness of stem cell donation? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0033par0154	Thank you. And let's make a promise to our former chief executive, Mr. Kose.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0034par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say a few words about the privatisation of sugar factories that fell on the agenda yesterday. One of the two investments from the government is the Corrum sugar factory. One was sold, the cement factory is now in the foreigners; the privatisation of the second is on the agenda as of today. Just thinking of the sugar factory as a sugar factory means you don't know the importance of the sugar industry and the sugar industry. The sugar industry is a very special and important sector with its mover, its farmer, its livestock, its anchorman, and even its oxygen released to nature. It is strongly recommended that this sector be protected by the state's hands. In the past, the State has prevented the privatisation of sugar factories by making very important decisions. We again wish the State's sensitivity to this issue to continue, and we advise the government to give up privatisation as soon as possible.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0035par0161	Thank you. Mr. Heroalp...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0036par0164	According to Justice Ministry data, the number of cases related to child abuse in Turkey has increased nearly three times in the past decade. Turkey is third on the world list in child sexual abuse. Justice data show that an average of 8,000 children a year are sexually abused. According to this, what is causing child neglect, abuse, and rape rates to increase? Could it be that there are no punishments or deterrent punishments? Does the definition of early marriage by the President of Religious Affairs have anything to do with the rise in government policies supporting early marriage? Will there be a study to strengthen the inadequate policies of relevant ministries at the point of preventing child neglect and abuse? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0035par0166	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0037par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the decision to remove the name of Turkey's Bar Association is the first step to disbanding the Bar Association. If Turkey lifts its head, the union at the end will also fall apart. Attempting to form offices that are a pressure group in order to turn one man into power is nothing more than a declaration of justice. As a lawyer, as a lawyer, I do not accept the removal of the Turkish Union of Bars, and the dismantling of the bars. The existence of the Turkish Bar Association is under threat. We will maintain our professional presence against the one-footed lawyers, the barrooms, and the Turkish Bar Association of Barracudas, which is independent of the judiciary. The Union of Turkish Bars is a professional organisation in this country that protects the right to defend citizens, organises defences, is important in the establishment of justice. In order to maintain our professional existence, I would like to invite all lawyers to take action in Ankara, which is dated February 24, 2018. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0038par0173	Thank you. Mr. Bektasoglu, you said you haven't been able to access the system since yesterday. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0039par0177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The acts of violence that freeze blood towards children continue to increase with all its intensity. There's been another agenda about this last week. Depending on that, social sensitivity and reactions have also increased, calls have been made to our House, and they're right. We must protect our children from violence, rape, harassment, abuse, early marriage, work, lack of love, grow up on the streets, commit crimes, become refugees, burn in cult dorms. We must provide them with universal rights, such as housing, nutrition, health, modern education. I think we're out of business as Republican People's Party Group on this one. So far, we have fully fulfilled our duties and responsibilities under legislature activities. Every member of parliament in this House should think so. We can't get results by ignoring, rejecting, protecting, exonerating; we have to be on the side. All the children of our country are in our care.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0038par0180	Thank you. Dear Yým, we're finishing up. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0040par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's about the sale of 14 sugar factories that have been announced since yesterday... the butler is not among these provinces, but after that, it doesn't mean that he won't be among those 11 other factories. We specifically state from here that we will not sell the first Butler Sugar Factory, whose foundation has been laid in Turkey. The Butler Sugar Factory is a sugar factory that serves Turkey with its history, its culture, its manufacturer, plus one of the non-destructive factories. That's why we're not going to sell the Butler Sugar Factory. About 1,600-1. And I'm telling you we're not going to have our 700 sugar farmer's rights to anyone, and I'm telling you not to sell the Butler Sugar Factory. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0041par0186	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who entered the system in two minutes. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0042par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, traitors from all sides are attacking our hero Mehmet-dik. Today, on the 33rd day of Operation Olive Branch, the sad news came from northern Iraq, and two of our soldiers were killed. Contracted Private Cumali Gür is originally from the province and his family lives in Antalya Manavgat. Again, Private Eren is from Adana Province of Steel. I wish our martyrs the grace of God, and my condolences to their families and to the great Turkish nation. Of course, our hero Mehmet Çikik is approaching Afrin, step by step, along with the Free Syrian Army. Those who applaud persecution, those who welcome the oppressors, those who are in the way of division and hostility will lose, and they will not stand in the face of our determination and determination. All those who take advantage of blood, take advantage of violence, take advantage of evil, take advantage of our state and our nation will be rewarded. May God help and help our Mehmetchik, who has vowed to dry terror at his source in Afrin, and to let all those who were with him down. For the indivisible integrity of his country, this holy struggle for the peace and prosperity of the Turkish nation is the battle of the cross and the crescent, the faith and the denial, the right and the superstition and the repentance of the martyr, as written in the will of our martyr, for the sake of God. I remember with gratitude and gratitude the members of the Turkish Armed Forces who fought for their lives. On this occasion, I would like to express once again the need to resolve the problems of our expert sergeants and veterans, who have fought heroically and selflessly in the fight against terrorism, who have given hundreds of martyrs. To solve the problems of our heroic sons at once is a matter of plague above all. The rights of these friends must be corrected, the age of retirement must be organised. Those of our expert sergeants who have completed their term of duty to retire but who have not met the age requirement do not benefit from additional indicators and the rights of retired sergeants if they are employed in various titles owned by public institutions and organisations.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0043par0196	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0042par0197	Thank you. Two years in the officers and petty officers, four or five years in the senior staff. An expert who served for 25 years spends twenty-two years in the eastern no-host base districts with temporary assignments. It also disrupts family integrity, leading to events leading to suicide. Their inability to benefit from military housing, camps, and guesthouses is a separate problem. The absence of a regulation that regulates the working conditions is another troubling situation. As our president-in-chief stated at this week's group meeting on Tuesday, it is our duty to take care of our martyrs' trusts and veterans, protect them, and provide a life level that suits them in society. In this framework, members of the veterans and martyrs who work in the title ▪ must be put into civil service staffs without further processing. The monthly commitment to the parents of our martyrs and veterans must be increased, not less than the net amount of minimum wage for each of them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0044par0202	Please, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0042par0203	All martyr orphans should be given jobs in public. Army and police duty must be restored to the pensions of veterans. Whether it's the social security of the veterans or not, the same amount of honor must be paid, the shame of asking them for a medal must be removed. Our President-General concluded his words in this manner at the group meeting as to this issue: When, instead of today, will the solution to these problems come to light? Let us show them once again that we are with them, that we are as concerned with their future as they are with them, that their trusts are our trusts. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0045par0206	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0046par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. The mother tongue is a human's most basic human right. February 21st was considered World Language Day by the United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization (UNESCO). The right to education in the native language and native language is guaranteed by many international contracts and agreements. On this occasion, the country, the region and the people of the world celebrate the Day of World Language on February 21st, and we invite all who hold their mother tongue to respect their different mother tongue. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been taken into custody on the grounds of social media sharing on February 20th, mainly because of the suspicion of running away and darkening evidence. It's rare to find people who don't have as much doubts as Shamil Altan and Celalettin Can run away, who are walking around, who everybody knows, who they see. On the same day, February 20th, Syrian Afra Shaar, who was arrested on December 22nd and charged with being an ISIS bomber, was released in the first hearing on the grounds that there was no suspicion of escape and tampering with evidence. Again, the accused of the Ankara Gar massacre, ISIS Emir Nusret Yilmaz (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) has been extradited to Turkey twice, but has not been known where Yılmaz was. They were taken to Afrin (Afrin) under the name of the S.E.O.O., who they were unknown to the public...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0047par0215	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0046par0216	...how many of those groups are connected to ISIS, the public is really curious. Unfortunately, at this stage, people are being detained and arrested on the grounds that they don't like each other's thoughts or read opposition news. We got another job murder report today. A line maintenance officer at the State Railways Department of Maintenance 623 lost his life in the work killing of Hasan Güngör, a member of the United Transport Workers' Union. We offer our condolences to all the relatives and family. The resistance of nine workers who have been laid off on account of being members of TUMTIS in the Transport of Gaziantep Babacans has continued for the 172th day. We salute our fellow workers from here, who continue their honorable resistance, regardless of snow and winter.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0048par0220	Let's finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0046par0221	Political power, which prohibits strikes on the basis of the State of Emergency, sees every right demand of workers as a threat to national security, continues to be with the bosses, and we will continue to be with workers and workers. No bread, no peace. The workers will win and justice will be done. It's not a crime to be union, it's an honor to be union. We advise everyone to become a union member or a member of an association because that's really democracy, and there are a lot of examples of that in other countries. Mr. President, with all due respect, as an Istanbul MP, I can't bring up the issues of the Istanbul people, and as Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0048par0224	Complete, please. Go ahead, say it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0046par0225	... since I need to talk, I'd like to say a few words about Maska Park. One of the rare areas where the Istanbulers breathed was Maçka Democracy Park, and 200 trees were ripped out for the road tunnel to the entrance. There is not a single tree left in the surrounding area, and Istanbul, which has entered among the most polluted cities in the world, is on the verge of a very serious climate, ecological destruction. Now, in total, we're talking about a 7.8km road tunnel that's going to be built there. In Beşiktaş Ortaköy Valley, the situation is even worse and we can't even predict the destruction it will cause in other areas where it will go under. The earthquake is a gathering area, parks, and really, when it's destroyed, those areas can't be a gathering area. At the same time, Istanbul is a city full of history, and when you dig it up, there's history everywhere...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0048par0227	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0046par0228	Thank you. So you can't destroy it, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't dig things up and open tunnels. In addition, tunnels that will be placed in the inner city emit incredible exhaust gas, and this exhaust gas will also bring ecological destruction. Moreover, instead of relaxing traffic, it will move all traffic on the third bridge through these tunnels to the center of the city. Government officials, especially the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, must stop this project immediately. Today, I salute our dear friends, who have taken care of their own living quarters by gathering in front of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0049par0233	Thank you. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0050par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in the early days of Operation Olive Dalı, Staff Sergeant Musa Özalkan was martyred and, in his will, shared with a friend of his was carefully, carefully, followed. He was making a will to grant his martyrdom compensation to Turkishmen's children in Telafer to make kindergarten, and on that basis, he made some commitments by taking in corporate personalities, real personalities, some political personalities. On the same day, we applied to the Parliamentary Presidency with the signature of three members of our vice presidents. If such a will exists, it would be up to the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to fulfil it. In response to his reply to us, the Parliamentary Presidency said that the issue should be discussed among political party groups after saying that the initiative was appreciated. So we sent our paper to all the political parties about it. And once again, we consider that the will of our martyr, which has been met with precision by the public, of course, with the appreciation of political party groups and the willingness of lawmakers, is right to be carried out by this Parliament, all together, with the amount of cuts from our MPs' salaries. Mr. President, there was a report in the Cumhuriyet daily today titled "The Two Faces of Justice" with the signature of "Alican Uludağ (Apolitan)." This is more than just a newspaper story, and it contains some facts, some details that need to be discussed directly in the House. According to the report, the Ankara Station massacre accused Nusret Yilmaz, who was wanted with the red bulletin, has been legally transferred to Georgia twice.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0051par0240	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0050par0241	Georgia is holding Yilmaz as wanted and returning Yilmaz to Turkey, but he is not detained in 2 extraditions, and Yilmaz, who has a $1m reward on his head, is now somewhere preparing for another massacre without knowing where he is. We know the Turkish-Syrian border has returned to its inn. We really want to know how a terrorist with a $1 million bounty on his head in Turkey would be able to make an official crossing through border crossings. We've seen this movie one more time. On March 22, 2016, in the attack in Belgium two years ago, Ibrahim Al Bakraoui said that he had been deported from Turkey on July 14, 2015 and August 2015, and that Justice and Development Party President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had reported to Belgium that this terrorist was a warrior.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0051par0244	Please, complete.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0050par0245	When the Belgian authorities made other statements, we first asked with a question proposal, and since it was not answered during the time of the question motion, we applied on the basis of the Right to Information Act. The answer to that question was not for the public. What we know today is that while the Brussels bomber was deported from Turkey, we couldn't confirm the President's claim that he was a terrorist, a jihadist, a warrior, with official sources and official information on that day, it wasn't confirmed to us. Today, ISIS workers from the Georgia border are breaking in. Georgia captures, returns; ours don't. This jihadist has a $1 million reward on his head today. Geography is the most comfortable for ISIS workers to enter, date, and even be tried. He's on trial, he's on trial.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0052par0249	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0050par0250	I am, Mr. President. The arrested man has no evidence left to collect, no doubts to darken evidence. He is being tried without arrest, just because he has a lot of photographs taken in his file with guns and bombs. But on the other hand, the leaders of Europe, who are our pre-referencing enemies, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who are now our enemies, who are now trying to maintain good relations, are the leaders of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who will be released. But for an Ahmet Şık... because he doesn't have a chancellor Ahmet Şık can continue to be kept inside. We'd appreciate it if the council had at least some information on the jihadists who came out of Georgia when they were here, who were held there, who were not arrested when they were returned. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0053par0255	Thank you. Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0054par0258	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Unfortunately, a few hours ago, we received some painful news. In the attack carried out by the terrorist organization PKK, Adana's Eren Çelik and Konian Cumalis Gür soldiers were sadly martyred, and one of our soldiers were wounded. In the name of the group of our martyrs, I pray for God's mercy, and for the healing of our veterans. On the one hand in Afrin, on the other hand, our soldiers are fighting back and fighting back against the terrorist organization's attack on our country through Iraq. The support of our nation, the prayer of our soldiers. From Afrin to the Iraqi border, we ask all of our security forces who are fighting terrorism across the border. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we are following very closely with our President's instructions the process concerning the request of our witness to be made kindergarten, which the group vice president has just mentioned. Our relevant ministries have begun their work. I'd like to say that if there's anything that we have to do after the sums of compensation and the evaluation process are done, we're going to do it to the letter. Again, Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, today is the anniversary of the death of the Muslim human rights advocate, activist Malcolm X. Malcolm X became an important activist who developed civil war against black people's discrimination in the United States, and he was targeted for his struggle against racism, and he served time in prison. Fifty-three years ago, when he made a speech in 1965, he died of an armed assault. Throughout his life, he has been the symbol and flag of many actions after him, defending equality, freedom, justice.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0055par0264	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0054par0265	On this occasion, once again, I ask for God's mercy on Malcolm X. His struggle for justice and equality is still going on. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0055par0267	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Court of Parliament, ask God's mercy once again for all our brothers who were killed in a terrorist attack. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Lord, we ask that our country, our nation, and our security forces protect us from all kinds of trouble, disaster, and terror. Again, today is February 21st, World Main Language Day. His native language is basic human rights. All their mother tongue is equally respectable, precious, and lawful, like mother's milk, without distinction. In this context, again, I would like to say that as the Presidential Court, we also celebrate Earth's Mother Language Day. That brings us to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly French-Turkey Friendship Group President Stephane Teste made an official visit to our country from March 11th to March 2018, along with a delegation of fellow members of the friendship group, with which the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Court of Parliament, dated January 22, 2018, and was eligible for decision 52. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0056par0285	Mr. President, may I have a quick word?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0055par0286	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0056par0289	Mr. President, I've been promised an additional piece of information by our friends, or I know we've just taken advantage of that right. Now, the Plan and Budget Commission is in operation. Our party's spokesman at the Plan and Budget Commission, Mr. Zechariah Maziel, who has served as Minister of Finance in the past, is working in that Commission, in a very constructive way, making very positive contributions, as well as the Commission, as well as all of our friends in Parliament are aware, and the ministers are witness to Mr. Cleanzel's approach during talks. And today, Mr. Minister, when a constructive criticism was being used by Mr. Minister, I mean, what does this do? Mr. Finance Minister Naci Agbal took it very wrongly and later that misunderstanding was known by everyone, but both to the institutional identity of the Republican People's Party and to the Minister.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0055par0292	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0056par0293	If you'll excuse me, I'll complete it. Then he left the hall. After the break, Mr. Minister had a concept of calling him and inviting him to the meeting, Mr. Finance Minister, because of this insult to a highly decent and highly constructive statesman, in which he and his former counterpart and everyone who had previously served in that Commission Hall would have to pay their dues. After that, the Republican People's Party has abandoned the commission. From this moment on, Mr. Naci Agbal, as we will not participate in the work on that commission as the Republican People's Party Group, including today's talks -- our agreement, any dialogue or any other statement -- and after that, the House...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0055par0296	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0056par0297	I hereby inform the Justice and Development Party Group that by using all rights from the Civil Code, we will make the most of the law and the law that we are currently negotiating, we expect Mr. Naci Agbal to make amends for this disrespect that Mr. Naci Agbal has done.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0057par0298	We'll find out, Mr. President. The debate on the commission is not supposed to be on the agenda here.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0055par0299	The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 21/2/2018 Wednesday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The Turkish Parliament's agenda for the Grand National Assembly has been proposed to open parliamentary inquiry on Wednesday (January 21/2/2042) of MP Erhan and Samsun MP Erhan, who are part of the MHP Group for General Discussion and Parliament Research, in order to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the issues of the jobs in the Corrum Organised Industrial District. Samsun MP Erhan Usta will talk as he has a proposal on the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0058par0314	Mr. President, we have submitted a parliamentary inquiry motion as the National Movement Party Group to investigate the problems and proposals for solutions of business environments in the Corum Organised Industrial Region to determine the measures needed to be taken regarding the development of the Correspondence economy. And I made a promise on behalf of my group. I salute the General Assembly. Let's give you some economic indicators of the county, and then I'd like to present some of the problems we've been given here. So, Stockum -- maybe I'll say this at the very beginning -- is a province that has a capacity for development, which, in its geographical position, has not been able to make much progress, although it is extremely suitable. With some minor touch, I think we can contribute to the development of Corrum County. So, since we care about the matter, we thought it appropriate to bring it to the agenda of the House. There are 564 thousand populations in 2002. In the last 14 years -- as of 2016 -- I'm going to say now -- our fourth largest population is Çorum. There's a decline in the population of the stock. A very important part of the economic indicators of the stock is below the average in Turkey, and seriously below. For example, it comes to each person in Turkey for 2014, at $26,489, but at Çorrum -- 17,084 -- 17 thousand liras, 35.5 per cent lower than the Turkish average. Again, as of 2016, these indicators are individual indicators. As the tax of institutions, Çorum is 85.8 per cent below the Turkish average, so from the reverse, it's 14 per cent of the institutional tax system per person. The income tax matrix is 56.6 per cent below the Chorum Turkey average; all per person. In exports, it's still 78.7 percent less, so if we say 78 per cent, there's only 22 per cent exports per person compared to the Turkish average. It's a province with 64 per cent below the market, 48 per cent below the loan, which is a significant amount of economic indicators below the Turkish average. Again, as of 2016, 173 of every thousand people in Turkey are under 4/A, which is registered insurance, which is only 108 in Çorum. I don't want to drown too much in numbers. In terms of income, the stock is seriously below. Now, these odds tell us that Corrum is below average. Now, I want to express the problems of what the Collectors are transmitting to us. The problem that's been transmitted once more is an airport and a railroad. This railroad thing is turning into a snake story. Currently, Ankara-Sorum-Samsun pipeline projects are being launched, so their projects are being tendered; they're not application projects, they're normal projects. This needs to be speeded up once. This is a very important issue for Samsun and for Çorum and for Ankara. The Ministry of Transport has to take a very serious resource and immediately separate this source and load it here, and we need to use our resources very meaningfully here. Secondly, this is about the airport. If we go back a little bit, in fact, in 1991, the issue of Corrum's airport got into the investment program, and then it was removed because there was not a lot of funding available in the investment programme. At the moment, the Compounders are using the Amasya Merzifon Airport in a busy way, but access here is also a bit of a nuisance. So the Compounders actually want to re-investment the Stock Airport. Now, of course, we have to look at the whole thing here. Are they going to build a Most Airport here, of course it's appropriate to do so, but there's an airport nearby. If it's to be uploaded to Merzifon Airport, it needs to be increased once. Maybe it's called Amasya -- it's no harm to Amasya -- the Amasya Merzifon Çorrum Airport, because it's mostly actually the Compounders who use this airport. In that sense, he who makes a reservation abroad also sees the name of Çorum Province at an airport. In addition, the COBIs have not benefited much from these OKAP projects, and in the past four years there has been no tender for a project for the KOBI. The CME's turnout criteria go beyond the COBI scale because inflation cannot be updated; there is a problem here; these are problems across Turkey. The height of the export criteria for the green passport... there are exporters there, we find it difficult to go abroad. The acceleration of export VAT returns is crucial. The problems faced in working life are the height of the tax load, the increase of the employer's support premiums, which the Compulsives have delivered to us, and, of course, Turkey's problems in general. I think we should devote our resources more to this place. These are things that will contribute a great deal to both the stock and our entire economy. Another issue is that we have really seen a lot in Turkey. Now, the government is making an arrangement, and it almost wants to adapt to this arrangement the very next day. Industrialists complain about it a lot. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0059par0324	Finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0058par0325	Yes, some arrangements may be related to this environment, may be related to working life. There is no such thing as adapting to them immediately, day after day, day after day, or two months at work. The firms here are facing very serious difficulties. It would be appropriate to announce them and give them time and time to demand them, to demand them over time. So the Corum has potential. A number of public investments that will bring that potential to life, and the public needs to reach out there. If we do this, by giving birth to synergy around the Corrum, I think it will also help Amasya, Tokat, and Samsun, to develop those things, and I think it will give birth to synergy here together. Yeah, well, there's actually a lot more to be said here in the regional sense. We all know that public investments in Turkey are not being distributed in balance. The issue of regional development should not only be taken as an East or Southeast issue in Turkey; it is ending in Central Anatolia, it is running out of inner Anatolia, it is necessary to look at the inner Anatolia. There's not much point in stockpiling all public investments into Istanbul. I think we should distribute investments more carefully across the country. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0060par0330	Thank you. İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0061par0334	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the MHP group proposal. I salute your sentence. The Black Sea Region has a unique position in the Anatolian cultural mosaic, which is the gateway to the Interior Anatolia. More than seven thousand years ago, the first capital of the Hitititarian capital, Hattushaş, established the first organised state, is Çorum. Its economy is based on copper management, hand-weavering, agriculture and animalism, and as Mr. Ustah said in his research proposal, in the last 14 years, we have been the fourth most populated province in 14 years. I'd like to point out that it's an urgent necessity for an action plan to prevent migrations to improve the industrialisation of the stock. The addition to the name of Amasya Merzifon Airport will not solve the problem there. It is a imperative requirement that flights to the Aegean and Mediterranean regions be restructured and especially added to their flights. The distance between Çorum and Merzifon Airport must also be shortened. Compulsors who deal not only with industry but also with agriculture and livestock have similar problems. For the use of fertile farmland between infraction and Greenery, irrigation channels must be opened and land collection work must also be completed. Again, agricultural cuts such as BUG-KUR must be reduced or increased the responsibility of the tradesman, trader and industrialist. The most important problem of the brick and tile industry, the machine industry, the crude production of products, the flour and bait factories, is seen as shipping costs. I'd like to rephrase that the railroad will reduce these costs to the minimum, but the railway work is not done again as Mr. Ustah pointed out, it's just in the project, and it needs to be finished as soon as possible. In this way, it is certain that the multi-profit manufacturer will increase competitiveness both in the domestic market and in the international market. I'd like to say here that we will give the support needed as the Democratic Party of Peoples that we can stop the migration and support investments that will create labor force opportunities to feed our people where they were born, increase agricultural support, open parliamentary research in order to develop livestock. I say that the development of the stock, the lack of human life - anxiety, the decline of migrations, will also allow other provinces in the region to develop. In fact, one of the reasons why we're talking about Chorum today is because the development flow in our country has only been compressed into one region, Adapazari, Alexei and Istanbul, and the fact that these investments are not being made to Central Anatolian and backward regions is the main source of the problem. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit01spe0062par0344	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0062par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our discussion of the nationalist movement group's proposal. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the Corum MP belongs to the Flood Kose. Mr. Köse, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0063par0006	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, we thank the Samsun MP of the National Movement Party, who took care of the problems of Chorum when he passed through the Corrum. I wish he'd come by. When I was elected in 2011, I visited the National Movement Party in 2015, visited the mayor, and said: "The National Movement Party couldn't get a MP out of Chorum, but I'm in the Parliament to be the voice of your base. I'm waiting for one, hoping we can talk together. Again, there's the Yozgat MP of the Justice and Development Party, Ertugrul Soysal, who I was going to start with, I started with the National Movement Party. Now, Mr. Ertugrul de Yozgat/ta says at a party meeting: "I don't know if the president is giving us what we want because he loves us so much. They're jealous of us too. If I think so, they're jealous of us too." Now, I don't think the President likes us, either, because he doesn't give us what we want, so I'm looking at him, and he's not giving him... he's got two public investments. One of them was gone, and now we don't know if it's in the Spanish or in the Portuguese or in the French or in the cement factory... and the sugar factory -- it was announced yesterday -- with its worker, with its worker, with its farmer, with its mover, with its very important sector -- sugar will be privatized, probably one of the sectors that will be closed down in the process. So we don't give anything, at least don't take what's happened. My dear friends, Stockum has real problems, but they don't have problems that can't be solved, as long as they're wanted, as long as they're motivated, as long as they're put forth effort. Now, in Chorum, the tile industry, the land industry is very important. While this sector can provide a significant portion of Turkey's needs, it can become a very important, even more important sector with railway investment, such investments have been made in other sectors, and the territorial industry sector has reached its point of collapse, although it is a sector where employment is being used very intensively. And then -- so they gave incentives to other places, but -- there's a hospital being built, and the city hospital, they said in the terms of the tender, they're going to use gasbetone in the fabrication of this place. Or you're going to say, "Crosum is the center of the industry, and you're going to have gasbeton." Of course, we put up a fight, removed the gas from other hospitals, under contract, but that's how Corrum Hospital went. Now, in Çorum, our industrialist's general complaint is that the majority of pilots are selected, the controls are selected for pilot areas -- inspectors are not coming out as if they were Republican People's Party municipalities -- the audit never ends. The first application of all legislation is in the stock market, perhaps because it is near. I mean, we don't have an airport, but unfortunately, our pilot is a lot of pilots. The Secretary of Defense was just here, he's still here. So it's not possible to talk about the problems of Chorum in three minutes or four minutes, but if you want to do something to Chorum, choose a pilot zone in the defence industry. For example, Corrum's machine industry is ready for this with its worker, entrepreneur, foreman. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0064par0012	So if we extend three minutes by one minute, it'll be 33.3% longer, not less.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0063par0013	Sir, we're a very important city, you know.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0064par0014	Finish it, please. I won't let it go again.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0063par0015	If there is to be a contribution to the majority, let the majority of the machine sector be selected as a pilot zone in the defence industry, where it is highly developed. His employer, foreman, worker is ready if a support, contribution is offered to him. Now, there really isn't an airport in Chorum. We want an airport in Çorum. Our dream is a million-dollar stock. So the 500 G's, maybe, don't want the emergency airport right away, but the Compounds, with a dream of a million dollars, want the airport as soon as possible. I asked him about the railroad. What's the progress in the morning? I say there's no chance the railroad will reach 2023. Lawmakers from the Justice Development Party say, "It will grow." I asked again, there was a project tender, but feasibility studies, drilling at 50 percent. So it's going to take a year, a year and a half, two years to finish. The most important need for support is the selection of pilot zones in the defence industry. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0065par0021	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0066par0022	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0065par0023	Mr. Master, according to 60, here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0066par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Köse said Mr. Erhan was passing by. He said, "I didn't stop by. I didn't stop by. I went there in private because they called us from the Corporate Industries, and I didn't do the meeting in the MHP county building. I didn't visit MHP county agency on my visit -- I did it in OSB, OSB administration beer. Of course, if the Multi-industrialists are seeking the National Movement Party to resolve their problems, it's the problem of parties that have elected MPs from the Stockyard. I don't know why they don't call them, but it's our duty as the National Movement Party to bring up the problems of the country, wherever there's a problem -- let's not raise the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0067par0030	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0068par0031	Can I answer you for a minute?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0067par0032	Mr. Köse, if you'd like to finish, maybe in the end, I'll promise you again.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0068par0033	I'll tell you what, let's file a report...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0067par0034	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0068par0035	I didn't do it ironically, I did ask him, he's a Samsun MP, he's our neighbor, he'll stop by. I'd especially like to point out that I wish he'd stop by the opposition party and have a chat with the lawmakers while we pass by and maybe we could discuss the issues more thoroughly. That's what I'm saying. Otherwise, of course, you'll come, and you'll be our congressman.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0067par0036	Thank you, I understand.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0069par0037	Do you have anything to say? It's all talk.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0068par0038	Sir, of course I do. Why not?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0069par0039	Is there such a method?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0068par0040	Well, then, there's teasing, sir, and I want a promise. There's bullying, I want a promise.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0070par0041	No hard feelings. No hard feelings.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0068par0042	There's bullying, sir. My name has been mentioned.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0070par0043	I'm not promising to mess with you. It's up to us to appreciate the bullying.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0068par0044	He teased me about my name.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0070par0045	The ceremony is understood. We're all trying to do something good for Chorum, for 81 provinces. It's on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0068par0047	Look, if we went and made a motion about Samsun's problems, is that true? I didn't really want to say this, but it wasn't the right thing to do, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0071par0048	Yeah, that's teasing, I want promises here.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0070par0049	No, he didn't.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0071par0050	What's being done here, any congressman can make any motion. Besides, we don't have a Covenant MP.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0070par0051	The MPs are members of the Turkish Parliament.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0071par0052	Of course... As the nearest district MP, the problem came to us, and we moved the problem here. If there's anything to be done, we should be thanked. What we're saying is not a bad thing. In fact, when you look at it, there's no criticism of the government in that sense, there's no criticism of the opposition, but of course they have to think, why aren't they looking for you people there? They're not our party, they're not our party, I've had a meeting with the industrialists at the OSB building, they've given us their problems, and we've brought them here, to the government and to our nation's discretion. There's no evil in this, there's no political rudeness.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0070par0054	Thank you. In the name of my son, we thank all the MPs, all the political parties.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0072par0056	Mr. President, I said thank you, and I didn't. And they did it right. Gone, chatted, chatted, if only we were to be visited.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0073par0057	We'll stop by your place next time.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0072par0058	I said, "I went to the National Movement Party's county building after two elections, and I want to be your voice in Parliament." I'm just reminding you of the kindness, that's all.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0074par0059	Thank you. Now, we're talking about a city that's the center of the world, and it's not easy to talk about Chorum. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Corrum MP Salim Nice will speak. Mr. Goody, here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0075par0067	Mr. President, the most valued members of our Veteran Assembly, first of all, I thank Mr. Erhan, because we know that advertising can't be bad. They have made it possible for Chorum to come to Turkey's agenda, to come to the Parliament's agenda on this occasion. I want to thank them very much. I really think it's very important that the Corum be brought up in such a province. For once, I'd like to remind Mr. Master of some things he doesn't know. They say that even though the airport and the railway need are on the agenda... there is no progress yet. Both the airport and the railway are on our agenda. It's about the airport, you know, there's been an additional runway in Merzifon. It's still not in service, but it's done. The problems there, the airport name... well, I don't want to sound like the precious HDP deputy who just spoke, and I don't agree, but I don't think it's right to put the name "Sorum" there. So we've talked to our friends, and we think it's more of a geographical or historical name, a merziphona, which is being done. Other than that, a request for an additional terminal building was sent to him on September 28th, when the Prime Minister arrived at Çorum. And I know that Mr. Prime Minister had some work to do with it. Other than that, our Hitit University has now successfully managed to maintain urban culture and the values of Chorum, and has reached a large family of 20,000 people. At the same time, watered 158,950 per cent of land between 2002 and 2002, while 14.520 can be watered. And there is also the watering of 197,220 acres in the construction programme, which will provide about 158 million people and 15,000 additional jobs. Other than that, we're taking advantage of the airport, it's true; there's a shortcut, there's a way to shorten it. The work is still in progress on that subject, a 7km acronym acronym. Landworks and art structures have been completed, and land collections are still under way. There's a half a mile left, and I'm hoping we'll have that finished soon. Other than that, again, the extra track job, that's what I said. And then there's this whole flight-time thing. Two planes take off every day from Merzifon Airport, but you should know that we all know that by passenger surveys it is determined as to what time flight hours are supposed to be. According to the polls, Turkish Airlines has informed us. Summer, winter tariffs are different; summer, winter tariffs are changing, as you know. So there's a lot to be said about the Corum, but I have to say in particular: The Manas saga begins with the words "Don't call it Vara. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think it means there's no service here at Corrum.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0076par0078	Please complete it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0075par0079	Aye.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0077par0080	Mr. President, may I remind you that the witness voted to reduce the ten-minute window to three minutes. When you ask for opposition, give it to them... how do they want it?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0076par0081	Thank you. We're trying to achieve rights and laws without discrimination, power, opposition.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0078par0083	Mr. Salim, isn't that enough time?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0079par0084	Yes, thank you very much. Thank you. Bye.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0080par0086	Thank you. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's 21/2/2018 meeting on Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On February 20, 2018, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioglu, the deputy minister of the İstanbul Group, proposed that their talks be held in front of other motions Wednesday (21/2/2018) in order to assess the full extent of the military intervention against Syrian group 6740 and the negative impact on Turkey's domestic and foreign policies. Thank you. On the proposal, Kars MP Ayhan Bilgen will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0081par0101	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, have been told a lot about Syrian policy, but I think there's going to be a lot more to be said at every stage of this process. In his famous lyrics, he asks, "Is history a repeat, but would it repeat itself if an example had been taken?" It's almost like we're having another one of those scenarios from a hundred years ago. Turkey, just like then, had pushed Turkey to join the Germans in the ranks of the Germans because there were no other alliances left, and unfortunately, when we looked at the debates that the Ottomans took that position with France, with Russia, with Britain, when it failed, it was not in Ottoman's interest that the great powers took part in the Ottoman war to share Ottomans, the consequences of seeing Ottoman society as an easy soldier, at least because there were no other alliances left, and unfortunately, they argued much more seriously, than our policy today, which was in fact more serious, was in the interest of the Ottoman Empire. Those who opposed the war that day, those who criticised this position, those who wanted war on that day, just as history didn't put them in the traitor's category, and those who pushed Ottoman soldiers and Ottoman people into it, unfortunately, they didn't write as heroes, and people from all sides of Asia Minor grew up listening to their orphaned children, the Yemeni songs as a mourning song. Dear friends, today the Syrian policy -- perhaps on a small scale, on a micro level -- is similar to repeating the same bad example of being a participant in the battle of custody in the Middle East. Dear friends, in this geography, in this land, there are no winners except the arms dealers of war. No people have ever come out of the battle of custody in the Middle East with great victory and great gain. On the contrary, each custody battle has only created the basis for external interference - social tensions, the itching of ethnic, religious tensions, the opportunity for conflict. So there's only one solution, in fact, to the problems of the Middle East, which meets the demands of all societies, to find a way to live together by talking about different beliefs, different languages, identities, not by gun, but by dialogue, by developing political solutions. No matter how long the picture we're facing today, no matter how long it takes, there will be people in the Middle East who have lost blood, who have lost hope, who have lost hope, who have paid more for living together, who will be Turks, who will be Kurds, who will be Arabs, who will be Persians. Therefore, it is the responsibility of all who are under this roof to open the way for Parliament to become more serious, more effective in giving up this policy and confronting this policy as soon as possible. I'd like to remind you again for a very simple comparison. Look at the war debates in the Mebusan Assembly a century ago, and look at the level and style of today's debates. So on that day, an empire is losing land, facing much greater danger, but much more brutal debates were made without anyone accusing anyone. Look at the way other countries discuss war policies. How do you discuss Afghanistan policy in the American Congress? Because of the Iraqi policy, how did Germany's opposition criticise the government in Germany, and how did it argue? Did the parties conduct this discussion by accusing each other, accusing each other, or did they seek the national interest in common sense, the building of common conscience? Dear friends, it is no longer admissible for the sake of privacy, for the sake of security, to smuggle these arguments out of here. Everyone knows that all military operations take place within the knowledge of Russia, including the knowledge of the allies involved in Turkey. Hiding it from Parliament, from the people, is never a defense for the good of the country. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0082par0111	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0083par0115	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our first answer to this proposal is that the state of the Republic of Turkey is not in a war in Syria, but in a fight against terrorism and terrorists. The fundamental mentality of those who strive for different question signs in society... has been seriously fought against elements that have been created from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean corridor, so-called terror corridor and threatened Turkey, where they have entered into a ritual womb, which has threatened the swamp in a very serious way, by taking serious action against the elements that threaten Turkey. Dear MPs, the state of the Republic of Turkey had previously been fighting terrorism within its borders, and in the fight against this terror of the state of the Republic of Turkey from the 90s, our late Prime Minister Alparslan Türkesh said that mosquitoes should not be dealt with until the swamp is dried. With the national state policy presented today, terrorist activities are being destroyed, as well as the support of the National Movement Party. Along with it, a human life appears to have gone to the region by the hand of Mehmet-chik. If there is a second place on the Syrian border, including the current regime, where there is a more ambitious human life in the Al Bab region, let them ask, why is the Turkish soldier and Turkey there, let us answer for it. He goes to the Turkish military man who goes there with the olive branch to protect the innocent people in the region who face the threat and death traps of the PYD. He's going there with humanitarian help because he sees his country's security together. All of these challenges are supported by the great Turkish nation's enthusiasm and excitement, and the spirit of mobilisation makes them feel the thrill of it. With national intelligence and strategy, Mehmet-chik in the region writes to us from there, texting us. You know what he says? I would like to read to you a message that we have experienced today that some of the problems and events that our country faces inside and out are not ordinary, ordinary developments. Turkey is openly confused because the Turkish nation's efforts to stand on its own two feet are seen and is clearly sought to be surrounded by a ball of problems. The St. Turkish nation sees the process. We're here to get the Turkish nation's will behind us. We'll fight here until the end, as long as you don't lose at the table. That's a Mehmetchik saying that. I give this letter to General Kurula and the great Turkish nation. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0084par0121	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. The second word on behalf of the groups belongs to Ardahan MP Ozturk Yilmaz, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0085par0125	Mr. President, we have repeatedly explained our party's Syrian policy from this bench. Of course, we'd like to make a few important points on this occasion. One of them is that the United States and Russia are not in a conflict about Syria, as they have shown it to the public, that they agree with each other from behind the scenes, and that they conduct the Syrian case. The Astana process, Sochi, Geneva, was not all enough to prevent the war in Syria, but it continues at the speed of civil war. It could have been a solution. For example, when there was a civil war in Tajikistan, the current President of Tajikistan, Imameli Rahman, defeated all the fighting parties, established unity in the country, established the constitution and established the current order. But this is not happening in Syria now. Assad has not been eaten in all sense, nor has he been defeated. On the other hand, there's an example of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know. There, we also know that the international community brought in an agreement -- a proper manda system -- and that the war was ended in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a result of an international agreement. We need to know there will be no military solution in the Syrian war. There is no military solution in Syria, no matter what, because international forces are now stationed here. We know that Russia has actually shifted power, that the bases have acquired, that's how much subcontracted this area. On the other hand, we need to know that the United States has settled in Syria more than ever before. Even if people in Syria want to, it is no longer an easy solution. What we need to do is speed up the political process. How can the political process be accelerated? So the talks in Astana, in Sochi, of course, contributed to the incident at some point, but there is no serious sense of humor on the way to the conclusion. The Geneva talks, on the other hand, are blocked. What do you have to do? What needs to be done is, first of all, when do you need Operation Afrin and other risks and threats to be resolved? When a political solution can be reached in Syria, then it can be resolved. Of course, Syria will decide the future of Syria. It is called "The Syrian people," but we have to accept that the Syrian people will not decide. Because the international community has officially taken Syria into the hands of the buffalo and has seized its will. In such a situation, we as a neighbor need to find a way to avoid past mistakes, avoid prejudices, and basically face the truth. It also says that the road can be managed somehow by opening new dialogue channels, and I pay all of you respect.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0086par0131	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the last statement is from Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar. Here you go, Mr. Gülpınar.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0087par0135	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Democratic Party Group. Actually, I was going to look into a different matter, but Ayhan Bey, of course, led me to a different conversation, and we have something in common. We have something in common, yes, it's true. I mentioned it in my last speech, a hundred years ago. The same design is being designed today as it was a hundred years ago. We totally agree on that. But there's one thing we don't agree on. Mr. Ayhan stated that there was no example, but we've actually started to do so today because we've learned a lesson from history. Because the way that design was designed in the past, if these games were played on the Middle East by Western forces today, those games are repeating in the same way, and we have to do this operation in the same way that we have done in the past, in order to defend our country, in order to defend our indivisibleness, in order to fight the West, in order to fight these imperial forces, and because we've learned. Of course, let's put it all aside here -- Operation Afrin, the developments in the Middle East -- now there's a fact here that we all agree on. You know, there's an organization called DAEŞ, and the West has made it very clear that it's struggling with this DAEŞ organization in particular. Now, the real point here is, if DAEŞ is such a threat, why doesn't the West send its own forces, its own young men, and fight DAEŞ, but why does it need to be a tool for my own country's young people -- that same case you talked about a century ago -- to send them back to Syria to fight DAESS, and why do my own young people need to be a tool in this game of the West? That's the whole point I want to dwell on. Of course, what you call it is very different. In the previous conversation, it was mentioned again, the matter of cocktail organizations. Of course, it's actually a very nice concept, and I'm signing under it. Now, it's very clear what's cocktail here and what's not cocktails. All those organizations from China, from the Netherlands, Spain, France, America, Australia, New Zealand, all those young people from New Zealand -- anyway -- who come to fight -- are cocktail organizations, or are they here to defend their own country and lose everything, but to get back to their country, I'm really curious about that, too. Of course, the DAES matter is still a matter of precision... In fact, the goal matuf, here is that you have a lisp in your tongue, and it really hurts our conscience to hear the words of the Islamist, which you insist on emphasizing every time, from the mouth of our own lawmakers here, unfortunately, in the way West used it. Let go of the beard, put on the turban, say Allahu Akbar, and cut off the head. Okay, that's it! This is the kind of perception operation that the West wants.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0088par0141	He voted in three minutes, sir, in the amendment to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0089par0142	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0088par0143	What were you doing then?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0090par0144	I wasn't there that day, I was stationed abroad, I'm the commissioner.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0088par0145	The alibi stands, we accept, give it to me, sir.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0090par0146	But you're wasting my time, Mr. Free. And here we are, all of us, unfortunately, involved in that perception operation that the West wants completely. But anyone who knows Islam, who knows the Qur'an, who knows the Prophet, will admit that it has nothing to do with Islam. Whatever wisdom it may be, the people who should be afraid of him are not afraid of him at all, but as a Muslim, when faced with the simplest of things, I know very clearly that my head is cut off because I don't have a beard. I also present to the attention of valued lawmakers who are true Muslims and who serves such a perception operation to undermine Islam. Sure, there's a lot to talk about. Mr. Free is telling the truth, three minutes, but I've got to cut it in three minutes, and I've extended it for a minute. And thank you for your patience. I'd like to point out that we're against this motion as well.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0091par0152	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's 21/2/2018 meeting on Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. İstanbul MP Ali Şeker and his friends issued a parliamentary research motion (1729 rows) on 21/2/2018 to determine the solutions to the prevention of such cases, with details of the ongoing suicide incidents in our country. lu) has been proposed to take over other proposals and hold their talks on Wednesday (21/2/2018/2018). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali Şar will speak on behalf of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0092par0167	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to set up a commission to investigate the suicides we've committed on behalf of our group. Two weeks ago, I attended the funeral of a young man who committed suicide in my constituency. On Sunday (February 11th), we also talked the friend of our younger brother, AKP MP Mustafa Ilıcalı, out of suicide on the 15th of July Bridge of Martyrs. And while we were drafting this research proposal, we found out about another young brother's suicide. It's a big part of the national press's third-page news now that there are suicides. At the point where your 15-year-old power brought the country, there was no hope for the future, especially when we saw how many people in the young population were driven to suicide. We're ranked 69 percent in the World Happiness Index, 89 workers committed suicide in 2017. The most important reason for these suicides is that they don't get along. Suicide is a person's deliberate attempt to carry out this act, knowing that the consequence of one's life will be death. As a result, it brings intense regret to the friends and relatives left behind by the person who ended his life, as well as traumatic consequences to society. According to the latest World Health Organization report on depression, 3m260,677 people in Turkey - 4.4 per cent of our population is depressed. The report points to depression as the biggest risk leading to suicide. In the past month, we have seen cases in Antalya, Balıkesir, and Ankara where two of them committed suicide in front of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, for unemployment and economic reasons, and two of them committed suicide in front of our eyes, even though you do not want to see it. According to the latest official data released by TÜİK, the number of suicides resulted in 3,169 in 2014, while 3.211 in 2015 are seen to have increased, so 4 of the 100,000 people living in this community commit suicide. One of the triggers in suicide cases is drugs. The treatments of substances and drug addiction appear to be directed to cults, congregations, teachers, amulets, blowers instead of health organizations. Unfortunately, pilgrims are teachers, where they go to save children from drugs, just as they've been delivered to health workers. It is unacceptable for congregations and cults to interfere with serious medical expertise, such as drug addiction, and to view themselves as competent in these matters, and it has been tolerated even more recently. Unfortunately, that's where the Facebook postage about the boy who committed suicide on the Bosporus Bridge went to the Adıyaman Range cult a month before he committed suicide, and here he is freeing himself from the troubles. Given that the July 15 coup attempt was carried out by the AKP governments and what did they want, it should not be considered to be a great danger to future generations and our country's social, political, cultural and political future. The increase in individual arming makes suicide cases easier and more numerous. More than 60 KHK victims have committed suicide since the July 15 coup attempt. Doctors who were once one of the most respected professions in the country commit suicide due to exhaustion syndrome. Not only do doctors lose their lives, they lose their public health in the future. In this desperation and pessimism, not only do people commit suicide, but they also leave the country; there's a great migration, brain migration and capital migration. According to the New World Wealth report, 13,000 millionaires have left the country in the last three years. Twelve thousand of these have migrated to other countries over the past two years. It's because, again, despair of the future. As a result, tens of thousands of people commit suicide every year in our country for different reasons. So far, you've rejected our motions to investigate the country's problems as opposition. In many cases, such as terrorism, the environment, women's problems, youth problems, the tradesmen's problems, drug problems, agriculture problems, and SOS, you have rejected them. The country's situation, your consumption-based economic policies, also darken the prospects for children's employment in the future. With this proposal, let's investigate the ongoing suicides in our country together. It's our job as politicians to find solutions. The politics of polarization and tension have lost the peace of our country. In the future, I invite you to find a solution to this problem without losing more young people's lives. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0093par0177	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Antalya MP Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0094par0181	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Party of Actions that affect public health and peace. We are currently working on the Parliament's research commission as part of our motion as the National Action Party on the fight against drugs and addiction that drive people to suicide. Reverend citizens, as lawmakers, we sit at this time for the peace and prosperity of the Turkish nation. Suicide is a problem of modern society today, and naturally our country is experiencing it. Studies show that our citizens who attempted suicide took this path due to the resulting depression caused by various incidents. According to TÜİK data, the number of suicides resulting in death was 3,169 in 2014, while 3,211 people committed suicide in 2015. If it's possible to save a brother from suicide, any possibility as a state must be mobilized. As we solve the problems of our young ones, our families, psychologists, and our nation also have great responsibility. From childhood on, effective communication techniques can cope with stress training and create a generation that can say no if necessary. As a result of these trainings, our children and young people can be able to communicate their problems in moments of mental distress. With effective methods of communication, we can overcome many problems. It may be possible to connect a person who is about to end his life on the evening of a very difficult day with a warm welcome or a brief conversation of life. At this stage, we have a law proposal as the National Movement Party to protect the mental health of our citizens and society. We are grateful to Mr. Deniz Depboylu, our member of the Aydın Congress, for this proposal to protect his mental health. We would like to present this bill to the Turkish nation by passing it on to the Health Commission as soon as possible. Other than that, I'd like to say that we have policies to improve social, cultural and sporting activities as the National Movement Party to protect public health. Of course, in such a short period of time, it is not possible to give you the details of our policies, but if you wish, you can see it in our election statements, on our websites, on our official pages, and when the time comes, we will be very pleased to offer you these explanations one by one. We also want to end the unemployment problem, especially among our young people, and to establish justice in the income distribution. And for that, we've submitted all the policies we need before, and we'll continue to present them. I salute you all and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0095par0189	Thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Siegel Yiğitalp will speak. Here you go, Mr. Heroalp.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0096par0193	Mr. President, Dear Members of Health, some of the World Health Organization's data has been shared here, and the data in Turkey is very frightening. And other than the fact that it's creepy, I think it's scary to watch, to own, to find a solution to this. Because I'd like to start by stressing again that the mechanism for ownership is power, and the power has a responsibility to listen through a solution to that, and how we can work it out. Yes, it's said that 3 million,260,000 people have been treated for depression, but that's the number of people who have applied, but millions of people have not applied. When you look at drugs, we're dealing with a drug rate that has increased 17 times in the last six years, and unemployment has increased considerably. People are seriously involved in substance abuse, drug addiction, and when you look at sanctions for this, unfortunately, we're faced with a very inadequate, sloppy approach. This has been a drug addiction for a long time, but in particular in the last four or five years, it's gone up to a very high rate. And since I'm the deputy of the city of Diyarbakir, his drug addiction has increased a lot, I've said it over and over again here to see what can be done against it. I insisted, but I'm afraid I didn't get an answer again. By saying these things and not going over the consequences, we may be able to work out some reasons, but if we discuss their reasons, we're probably faced with a power that is afraid to face them and prevents them from confronting them. By saying that, I'd like to talk a little bit about Diyarbakır. Friends, there are a lot of drug addictions in the districts of Diyarbakır, especially in some of our districts and districts, where there are curfews, and these drugs are sold by people described in areas where the police are and in front of schools. When the police are told about it, when the call is made, it immediately looks like it's a forensic case and goes on. The police know very well where it's being sold, who's selling, how it works, but there's not enough countermeasures against it. Because the task and responsibility given to the police are mostly what the People's Democratic Party, Democratic Districts Party and opposition are doing, what they're doing in democratic politics, not because they're responsible for following them, but because they're doing their job with them in general, rather than because they're responsible for selling drugs to addicts, so they're doing their job somewhere a little bit further away from their job. Again, let's remind security, law enforcement, and especially the Ministry of Internal Affairs: That's the responsibility. What kind of protection do you have against drug abuse? What have you developed against drug addiction? I mean, how common are social mechanisms in particular? Please do not discuss it over the congregations, nor discuss it over the Bible; this is another matter. Because drug addiction is a situation that needs to be dealt with in a scientific way. Of course, spirituality is necessary, but we can find real solutions when we look at it in a scientific way. But, unfortunately, we have...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0097par0197	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0096par0198	Since our angle of view is unscientific, it's worth paying attention to. I insist that the method of this work is to transform it into scientific, qualified public service areas, which happens with social policies, and the work done over that is very inadequate. There were a number of suggestions being made, and in recent times, the Dianet had a number of incentives, or there were suggestions from the congregations. Please and please look at science now, discuss a qualified solution, let's resolve this together by taking responsibility and really concern yourself with it. Drug addiction is a very serious problem, a huge problem, and we all have the solution to this huge problem. I salute you all with love, my friends.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0098par0202	Thank you. İstanbul MP Fatma Benli will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Benli.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0099par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the CHP's motion to set up a parliamentary research commission on suicide cases. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly. However, firstly, as I would like to state on the parliamentary research motions, especially through social media, a unfair campaign is being carried out as if MPs in parliament do not care about these issues or as if the relevant ministries are not working on this issue, as if all parliamentary research proposals have been rejected. In particular, the following day -- which is intended to be child abuse -- as it should be -- is not only unfair to the AK PARTI government, but also to this Parliamentary research commission for children who have been accepted by all parties, as if the research commissions had not been established, as if they had not been working on it. In the end, it is clear that the parliamentary research commissions must be established, but it should also be considered relevant to the working calendar. There are now 18 main commissions in parliament; there are commission work abroad; legislature work continues; parliamentary research commissions established earlier continue. Other than that, the number of parliamentary research proposals offered to set up a commission in parliament in the last two years alone is 2,426. There are 15 members in each commission. Even if parliament shuts down all legislatures, even if the other commission pauses its work, it is clear that 2.426 parliamentary research commissions will not be able to work. Of course suicides are important. In the end, even though the suicides in Turkey are far below the United States or Europe, each case is breaking our hearts because not only for those who want to die, but for the entire family and for the entire community. The Ministry of Health is conducting studies on this. In particular, awareness training for preventing suicides is being conducted, the work of the World Health Organization is being published, risk groups are being created, studies are being conducted on these risk groups; studies are continuing to increase for teachers, health workers, prison workers, media workers. As a matter of fact, the CHP motion has included information about drug addicts being routed to blowers or unemployment. Unemployment is an important problem, one percent of suicide cases are the cause, so it's on the agenda of our government. Eight and a half million additional jobs have been provided in the last decade, but employment is now being mobilized because it needs to be increased. Over 1.5 million jobs have been provided in the last year, and studies are being carried out for us to continue. Excuse me for a moment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0100par0212	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0101par0213	You voted in three minutes, Fatma Hanim.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0099par0214	In the same way, regarding the drugs involved in the motion...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0101par0216	You've narrowed it down from ten minutes to three. I'll take a minute to freshen up.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0099par0217	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0101par0218	In the Civil Charter, you narrowed it down to three minutes, so it was ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0099par0219	Thank you very much. The parliamentary research commission, which has already been established with the support of all of our MPs, continues to work on drug addiction on the grounds of the motion. The impact of drug addiction on suicides is 1.5 per cent, and measures related to this will already be conducted within the research commission. Since the ministries are continuing their work on the prevention of suicides at this point, the Parliament's research commission on the fight against drugs will continue to make recommendations for this area, with respect to the current Parliamentary calendar and the ongoing parliamentary research commissions, I respectfully submit my views to the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0102par0223	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. The proposal was not accepted.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0103par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0102par0226	Mr. Special, one second, let's take this vote, and then I'll give you my word. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. The Human Rights Review Commission nominated Mr. Tekin Bingöl, Ankara MP, to replace İzmir MP Zeynep Altikok, for 1 membership in the Republican People's Party Group. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Private, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0104par0236	Mr. President, in his speech earlier, the Hajjip used statements like the rejection of the research commissions was shared by social media in a way that would be misunderstood in society. Of course, one example can be looked at, and if there is such a situation, it may be necessary to clarify it, but I must remind you: 11 times the motion for violence against a physician has been rejected, 11 times Dr. Ersin of Gaziantep was accepted after being stabbed in the stomach; the Soma motion was rejected after the disaster; the drug-related bonza was rejected eight times, after an infinitive bonzai incident in society. If that happens, it is the subject of politics, and I would also like to remind you of the tradition of the lawmakers from Justice and Development Party to report Parliament to the nation in a crowd after every motion of over-responsibility, over-referencing, over-responsive research proposed at the time of your party's short opposition party. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit02spe0102par0238	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0102par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Justice and Development Party's Deputy President Mustafa Elitaş, who was in the 1st place, and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. In yesterday's merger, talks were completed on the entire Law Offer 519, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now we're going to start the question-answer process. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, according to yesterday's fundamentals, I'm going to read the MPs who took turns in the system, and that's the list we're going to be on. I read in order, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Bektasoglu -- if you enter the system -- Mr. Balbay, Mr. Irgil, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Toğrül, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tolcuoğlu, Mr. Topal took turns in that order. Yes, we'll start with Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0105par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, with this amendment, what problems of the universities will be resolved, and what problems of the universities will be corrected? My second question: will this amendment increase the efficiency of public service at universities? What efficiency can it increase? Third, he moves from assistant professor to teaching staff, doctor lecturer. So what's the point of us making $1,500 a month instead of $100 for scientific, free social work to be done in exchange for what we call this -- if it's self-inflicted? Wouldn't it be a more efficient study? How many people go from assistant professor's staff to doctor's title? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0106par0018	Thank you. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0107par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. The acts of violence that freeze blood towards children continue to increase with all its intensity. There's been another agenda about this last week. Depending on that, social sensitivity and responses have also increased, calls have been made to our parliament; they are correct. We must protect our children from violence, rape, harassment, abuse, early marriage, work, lack of love, grow up on the streets, commit crimes, become refugees, burn in cult dorms. We need to give them universal rights, such as housing, nutrition, health, modern education. I think we're out of business as Republican People's Party Group on this one. So far, we have fully fulfilled our duties and responsibilities under legislature activities. Every member of parliament in this House should think so. It's not about ignoring, refusing, protecting, laundering, we have to be on the side. All the children of our country are in our care. It's still not too late. We expect legal arrangements to be made in the House as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0108par0024	Mr. Irgil, come in.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0109par0025	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, welcome. As you know, new definitions of professorship are coming along with this bill. One of the many questions that's been asked in the public opinion is... I'm asking you, in order to get this into the transcripts, although I've spoken to the bureaucrats, I've had my answers, but I'm waiting for you to confirm it. First: Will the duration between the title of professorship and the title of professorship begin as soon as you receive it? Second: Friends who were awarded the position of professorship, who had remained in the oral examination phase but had passed the phase of the work, had different criteria before and after 2016, regardless of the criteria before and after 2016, will they all be named as doctors according to the conjunctive of the time they entered? This would be good for the better understanding of the law if we were to file a report here today. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0110par0031	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0111par0032	I'm asking the Minister of National Education: Today we're discussing Act 519 on the removal of assistant professorship. Was there a complaint from the SEC and universities? Why are we putting this away? Are we discussing this bill because the president wants us to, and we're calling off assistant professorship? Two: College education is getting worse. People who graduate from many universities can't get a job. In short, the diplomas they got don't work. Are you going to do a study on shutting down these episodes? Three: we have nearly 400,000 unaccounted teachers. And yet you said you'd make 25,000 appointments. Why do you continue the contractual and paid teacher practice when you need 150,000 staff? Why don't you think of these assignments as 150,000? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0112par0037	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0113par0039	Mr. Secretary, of course it's not relevant because we had this intention yesterday. There's been a public debate lately. This is a privatisation process for sugar factories. This was brought up after 2011, as you know. Twice this has been thought and planned and then given up again. It's a remarkable sugar factory, a historical heritage, especially in the province where I'm actually a member of parliament. You know, you're the East Anatolian representative. In these areas, government investments do not respond to easy privatisation. There's really going to be a lot of damage here. Both employees, contractors, staff officials, and farmers... they're already hard-core farming, sugar beets are being planted. In that sense, we really want your help in this regard. No three-dimensional casualties. We ask our government to make the necessary attempts to abandon them, as they have been given up twice before. On behalf of all Erzurum, I wanted to express it. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0114par0042	Thank you. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0115par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ministry of Youth and Sports organises youth camps. Every year, a certain number of young people who want to serve as camp leaders in these camps make camp leaders by sending them to camp leadership training. Candidates who have been training as camp leaders will be role models for young people in youth camps, engage in activities, share their knowledge and skills. So far, everything's normal. Now let's look at the other side of the locket. According to information, these camp leaders work like AKP's youth. The selected role models are, for some reason, members of the AKP. For example, Edirne Keşan and the model camp leaders selected in LongKöpru are members of the AKP youth arm. Is it a coincidence, or is it just the AKP boys? You're leading everyone who's looking for a job to İKUR. Was this camp leaders hired to the Ministry of Youth and Sports through İSKUR, or did the AKP also find a way to raise religious and vindictive youth in youth camps? Could you...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0116par0048	Mr. Balbay, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0117par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a lot of the suspended, deposed teachers come to us and say, "We've been exposed, we've been expelled." You're not guilty. They don't say you're guilty. They say you're innocent. We're in a middle spot like this. They even brought files. First of all, let the ministry give priority to this, let it say if we are guilty, that is why you are guilty. Even if we are not, let it restore our rights. I'm also offering this to your assessment. They also say that we were unable to read because of the recent problems of some 300,000 university students, Turkey -- which is fundamentally against us -- to make a new assessment of this period. There is a strong demand for the education of 300,000 students who have been expelled from the university for different reasons, Mr. Secretary, for those who remain outside of terror or similar criminals, to be granted the right to education.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0118par0052	Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0119par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we've been separated from the Armed Forces for hundreds of expert sergeants and petty officers who have left their posts for various reasons, and we've left the Armed Forces for different reasons at the time, but right now there's a holy struggle in Afrin, where we want to fight; we want to be with our soldier, our police. They really want the Armed Forces and the Police Department to respond to their demands. They sent me names and phone numbers. We want to go to Afrin. We want to be with the Turkish Armed Forces. They say. I hope you'll consider this request, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0118par0055	Mr. Durmaz... Mr. Toğrul, come in.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0120par0057	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we're discussing a proposal for a law, but I know that professor candidates in universities who have had a Ph.D. for years, who have not been appointed, who have earned their professorship for years, and who have not been appointed as a professor for years, have completed their doctorates and have been a very serious number of candidates waiting to be appointed professors. I'd like to ask you about the number. Why can't they appoint these people? Do you plan to appoint these when this law is discussed? Another important point: You have removed the TEOG Exam. It's in the press where you replace it with a circle system. There are statements that you've narrowed down this circle. What is it? How are our kids really going to get into high school? I want a concrete answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0121par0061	Thank you. Now to answer the questions, I leave the word to our Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz Bey. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0064	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, a congressman asked about the current number of assistant professors. So how many people are going to be teaching doctors? There are 35,995 academics on the assistant professor staff, who will become professors with the release of the law. Once again, when this bill was passed, there was a question of whether those who succeeded in the study would be given the title of professorship without further processing? When this bill is adopted, the Inter-Unital Board will title successful candidates from the art review process as professors without a verbal test. After the title is taken, other times will begin. Again, according to ancient criteria, will those who have succeeded in studying art in the past years and failed in the examination be subject to the standard of modern professorship? Another question is: how many of the professors who have successfully completed their Ph.D. training in the university have not been assigned to the faculty? Your question is that you have been assigned to the professorship.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0123par0069	The assistant professor and the investigators...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0070	Research officer 3,775 people, lecturer 2,300, lecturer 396, educational planner 2, expert 606, translator 1, have not been appointed 7,080 people. Again, our representative, the doctor, has been valued as a disparagement that his fellow professors should pass from this assistant professor to this, and would it not be better if they had 1,500 lira instead of 100 lira increased their rights? We'll join, it'll be better, but hopefully as Turkey's economic situation improves, as we increase its national income, as we spend more resources on education from its national income, we'll make the fees we pay better. Again, Mr. Bektasoglu... we really should protect our children, we should provide for our children as a state, we should provide for them in the hostels, he shouldn't need anyone but the state, and we agree. (CHP rows) Hopefully, I'm really comparing the past in this area to what I'm saying, it's impossible to get to where we want it all of a sudden, but we've made great progress in the number of pensions and the number of students in the Credit Homes. But do you need more? I do. Hopefully we'll take care of them next semester. And again, our other deputy, we're doing this because Mr. President wants to, and I've actually listened to what's in the assistant professors' staff, and they're all happy about it, they're all happy about it. But the professors, the people who passed this test, they say, are they going to go back in quality at universities? Thus, these demands come to the President, elected by the people's vote, as they come to us as MPs. I don't think his approach is right. Again, there is a request for another 400 thousand teachers. You're currently appointing 25,000 teachers, make it 150,000... make it 150,000, but the state has an economy. This economy needs a judge, needs a cop, needs a nurse, needs health. Hence, if we do so only in one field while planning as a government, the service will fail in other areas. We want to make sure that you don't fail in health or in health, you don't fail in security, you don't fail in justice, you don't fail in education.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0124par0075	Nothing happens without training, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0076	Okay, so we don't appoint teachers, but are classes free? No. What are we doing? One way or another, we're dealing with paid teachers. The numbers are getting smaller, so hopefully we'll reduce them further in the coming hours.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0124par0077	There are 109 thousand unassigned teachers.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0078	Again, Mr. Aydın....the lack of privatisation of sugar factories.. The state investment is hard to get east, so they've gone east one way or another, so these government investments need to be protected. Let's also protect those who plant sugar beets. We're in. Really, it's one of those people who hires there, at least the farmer's hope, who keeps the population there. Anyway, it's been postponed so far, that's why they've been delayed. Thus, while the government is doing one job, it is also doing a study of other social projects. In this case, our finance ministry and our other concerned ministry will certainly consider these issues.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0124par0079	It's being tendered, Mr. Secretary. Consider what? They're privatizing it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0080	Ten years to the sugar factory... So they have conditions there, if they run as long as this.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0124par0081	No, it's gonna close.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0082	Therefore, a period of running time is put into place, and it is left in necessity. No one takes it on this condition, so no citizen who sows beets will be victimized.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0124par0083	The privatized ones are closed.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0125par0084	Let's not interfere, lawmakers. Mr. Secretary is responding.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0085	Again, another question: the Ministry of Youth and Sports organises youth camps. In these youth camps, are members of the AK PARTY youth groups selected as camp leaders? I don't think anyone has ever been asked if he's a member of any party when he's given a public office. I'm telling you this from the bottom of my heart.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0126par0086	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0087	No, it's always thought so, but look, I'm the one who gets the most public servants. Here, I'm getting 20,000 to 25,000 teachers.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0126par0088	It's not you, it's not you, it's your entourage.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0089	Bring me a record from the party when you come from my brothers here. No one will say anything, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0126par0090	Please don't.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0127par0091	We'll give you their names, their names.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0092	Look, I just want to say that failure is not sustainable. It's your store, if your brother's going to ruin your shop, if he's going to go bankrupt, you won't even deliver your shop to your brother, thank you brother, you stop. Whatever you need, I'll pay for it. But you'll give it to the man who knows the shop or the man who knows how to run it, give it to the man who's right.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0128par0093	Where were you when I delivered you? You handed it over to him.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0094	Turkey's situation today shows that the country has been ruled by people with more integrity, more licensed than the past.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0129par0095	Minister, I made you listen to the interviews, the recordings, the interviews.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0096	What should we say? But our people do.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0130par0097	He knows, but he won't say a word.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0098	It was another question from Mr. Balbay, one of those who have been dismissed or expelled... we, the Ministry, are truly showing the greatest sensitivity. We have a teacher who's currently suspended by our Ministry about 500 -- a little lower, a little higher. We said to our friends, please, let's get this over with. We're finishing up a confession while someone's in court, and I was in court, but I was with this one, he says.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0131par0099	How much are the exports, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0100	But other than that, we have about 3,000 teachers suspended by the governors -- not by our Ministry -- for teachers. So, I've asked our Home Secretary to please instruct our governors not to be exposed to these teachers. So whatever they're thinking, it's possible, if they're considering that it's better for the public to be cut off from the public, let them let us know that it's better for the public, so don't drag it out. No, if they come to an opinion that it's okay for public service to work in public, they'll tell us that we're paying the teacher who's out in the open, and we're paying the teacher two-thirds of it, and instead of being a teacher, we're assigning a paid teacher. So I think we've done as much work as possible in the ministry as possible, hopefully, when our governorships are done, we're our citizens, whether we're guilty or we're innocent, we're paying our citizens, but I also think we need to work together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0132par0101	Mr. Secretary, are you investigating any of this?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0102	We're doing it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0132par0103	You can't just leave it to someone else. There are people who have been relieved of duty without any demands.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0104	No, no, we're really doing it. So the ones that I exported by adding a decree to the rule of law go to the State of Emergency Commission. There are people who go there and come back, there really is. So I asked the friends: "Why have the returnees returned?" The question they asked was, "Sir, we did social research." Somehow, the state of emergency is being constructed. I mean, we know, that's the way it is, but... it's been called. If it was said that at first, there was a tsunami when there was a coup, it was normal for the state to react, but after the time passed, the Commission says: "You have such a belief, your faith, that these are public... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish my sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0133par0107	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0122par0108	He says he doesn't need to be exposed. Therefore, the path of judgment has been opened and the state of emergency has been opened. Hopefully, we'll do whatever the judge instructs us to do. That's what it takes to be a legal state. Again, Mr. Balbay said, "Is there a pardon for university students?" For this moment, we don't think of forgiveness. Again, the sergeants and petty officers have left. Those who wish to return to the public... our Ministry of State of Defense -- I know from the past -- at least the strain of that structure has given them a right to return those who have left the institutions, to take the exams. So I agree with that idea. I'm saying I'm going to deliver this to both our Home Secretary and our Secretary of Defense.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0134par0111	Madam Secretary, thank you. I said I'd make a promise to Mr. Özdemir, but Mr. Özdemir, it was your turn. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0135par0114	Yes, thank you. There was no time left in the QA, thank you, Mr. President, for giving me another word. Mr. Minister, the Turkish Education Association's 2017 Education Evaluation Report of the think tank has been published, and you probably followed it. There are significant findings here, of course, concerning the problems in the educational system. In particular, the number of students registered in open-school schools has increased by 65 per cent in the last five years and the fact that 18 out of 100 teenagers in high school are out of school... is there any special study to be done on this subject, how do you assess it? And although it was published very late, in the Teacher's Strategy Document, which was published during your time, Mr. Secretary, there were significant findings here, there were concrete assessments of the working conditions and conditions of our teachers, especially at the point of increasing the quality of education schools. Has there been any study on this subject since the publication of the Strategy Document? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0136par0119	Thank you. Minister, let's finish.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0137par0121	Thank you. First of all, the Strategy Document was really a work of many years, then approved by the High Planning Board and published in the Official Gazette. The goal here is to take the right ones as teachers. He's sitting on three legs, saying that we're going to get people we're getting into service education and improve the teacher's perception of the community, so that the teaching profession is more demanding, and there's a teacher's performance review in it. Again, our board of higher education started last year, when it was possible to get into the first 700,000, the first 800,000, and choose education schools -- of course not just teachers -- this year's first application was last year -- but those who entered between 240k and those who went into the school schools will be able to go to the first 700,000. And this year, we'll go again with 240 thousand dams. We're going to look at the next period, and if there are any more improvements here, we're going to do it. Another issue is that we will increase the cooperation of students -- with the school as they study -- with the student -- with education schools to improve their practice. Of course, we have an in-service teacher academic, so let's take our teachers to a higher level of service education by turning each teacher's education center into a speciality.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0138par0125	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0137par0126	The general expression: No education quality is higher than the quality of a teacher. The more we improve our teacher's quality, the better the quality of education will be. Thank you again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0138par0128	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I'll put it to your votes.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0139par0133	Request roll call.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit03spe0138par0134	There's a roll call before the vote, and I'll do it first. Mr. Gürer, Mr. Ýrgil, Mr. Sündir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Engin, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Akin, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Arslan, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Emir, Mr. Akyıld, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Rootsal, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Yöşm, Mr. Nursal, Mr. Nursal. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0138par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote on the adoption of Law Proposal No. 519, the roll call was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes that the proposal be passed, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 519. The commission and the government are in place. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 19th article. The first statement on behalf of the groups who wanted to speak on the first chapter is from İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay (Izmir) on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Balbay, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Balbay, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0140par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, members of parliament, the University of the Turkish Air Agency is one of the most important universities in Turkey that are truly facing the future. A lot of people split up $45,000 a year and transferred their family's savings here and went to this university. It was a great start, and today at the University of Turkey's Weather Association, MPs, hundreds of students are expecting graduation. Why is he waiting for graduation? Because 150 people were taken from the Turkish Air Agency University while the pilot capacity was 50. The fourth year, when he can't find a pilot to fly during the necessary flight, when he can't find a pilot to train him, he waits. There are students who have been waiting for three years to graduate for two years. Turkish Air Agency University is perfect. At least 90 out of 100. All clear, pilot failure. Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, that's a lot of government practice. It's really important, it's important, it's going to work. One step is taken, but the other steps, the general planning, are not done. Education is at least a 20-ring chain. Even if all the parts of this chain are intact, if there's a bruise on a ring, it'll come off when you pull it. And when I criticize this, the government will now go to the bath, sir, as soon as they don't like it, they'll go to the wedding and they won't like it. Here we are, there's only one missing, and he's criticizing her. As I mentioned earlier at the University of Turkey's Air Association, unfortunately, many rings of education are rotten. Now, hundreds of students at the Turkish Air Agency are looking forward to graduating -- the sixth year, seventh year, maybe eighth year -- at $45,000 a year. It's a typical example of unplanned and unpredictable. Congressmans, this is very similar to the part of the law on assistant professors regarding the education we are currently discussing. There are around 36,000 assistant professors in Turkey. Clearly, 300 -400 will be made, and 500 will be made immediately. They're remarkable people. The whole point is, what do we do with the remaining 34,500 assistants? Let's change his name, change the title, keep it the same, but let's give him 103 lira. Many of the assistant professors, from Sivas to İzmir, from İstanbul to Ankara, are now under the law to pass through. Some of the arrangements that we actually participate in are the wishes of the academy world. But unfortunately, in their current situation, there's still a picture missing from the assistant professors that they're going to be able to guarantee themselves -- the security -- that's what they're going to see in front of them. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, the authorities. You've done all the rules, you've done all the rules, you've done them, and then you say, "The chancellor can bring a separate condition." What does that mean? All the rules we make are put aside, if the chancellor wants to give him an additional rule. Did the oral stand up? If the president wants it, he'll put it in. Did the English go down to 45? If the president asks for it, it's 65. Congressmans, this means nothing more than a sum, a ball, a ball, a zero. If you really want colleges, professors, the academic world to participate in a healthy education, what would I do with this sense of sacrifice? Chancellor, what decision does the university have to make about us? There's one more detail. You're removing the oral right now, so let's say -- there are so many examples -- an assistant professor is left out of the verbal, but all other conditions are in order. But the assistant professors who are in this situation are direct professors or not. Since there are no evaluations, everyone has an opinion. From here, we ask the Minister, we ask him, that if he stood up verbally without cause of any question on these matters, they could be professors. Congressmans, the assistant professorship we're currently talking about, but speaking of the academic world, we would like to discuss and address the situation of young academics within the framework of the teaching programme, which is now between 25 and 35 years old and is expected to be taken care of and resolved as soon as possible. All four parties here are bringing it up every chance they get, but unfortunately, there's no solution. Mr. Secretary, I assume you have reached this Education Evaluation Report of the Turkish Education Association. The Turkish Education Association is an institution founded in the Republic era, which is doing research on politics and even the rulings for the development of education, and today it really contributes to education along with the new management staff. There are so many serious things being said here. Experts of the Board of Education, their executives wrapped all their criticisms in velvet, looking for solutions. For example, the only number given along with the ministry figures reveals where education is: 18 percent of high school students now go to open high school -- 18 percent of every 100 high school students. That's students without schools and teachers. What kind of training do you expect from here? What kind of future Turkey awaits students who have graduated from here, and these numbers are growing exponentially every year, members of lawmakers. Again, investment in education is increasing, money in education is increasing, but with the growing population, there is no real investment in improving the quality of education, unfortunately. At first, I gave an example from the Turkish Weather Service. The FATIH Project -- I want the Minister to provide detailed information on behalf of the public -- is a failure in its own right. I can't even begin to make a more severe assessment. You started in 2010, and now you're saying we're not going to give you a tablet, we're going to give you a laptop, we're going to give you a keyboard. Congressmans, Mr. Lawmakers, Mr. Secretary, you said that when you started this in 2010, you would distribute 10 million tablets. Sultan Mehmet of Fatih has taken Istanbul in two months, and you haven't implemented this project in eighty-four months. Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror would have conquered Istanbul 42 times in the meantime, Mr. MPs, and I think he would have chased you with a stick. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, I'd like to dedicate my last minute to an assessment of the current, controversial AKP-MHP alliance. I've read roughly the text of this in public. If there really was a lesson in schools about what is and what is not a dialogue, I think those who did would fail the dialogue and even get another grade from insincereness. Article 7, 8 of this agreement is connected to the YSK. The AKP has a deal with the MPP, but there are 7 and 8 articles including the YSK. So this agreement seems to be the AKP-MHP-YSK agreement, which I say is a pity, a shame about democracy. So the YSK decides how to get the votes in the box. There seems to be a consensus. I say the AKP-MHP-YSK agreement will not bring any good to democracy, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0141par0036	Thank you. The second word on behalf of the groups belongs to Van MP Lezgin Botan, on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Mr. Botan, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0142par0040	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Proposal 519, which is presented to the public as the removal of assistant professorship. I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, AKP rulings have been trying to institutionalize injustice, staffing, centralisation and marketing in every area, in their steps over the past few years. In particular, intervention in education is not scientific and pedagogic, but comes as an effort to become a political staff. So the offer that we're currently interviewing is not considered a well-meaning, innocent work. Because university autonomy and academic freedoms have never been on the agenda of AKP authorities. Of course, the issue of university autonomy and academic freedoms was unresolved during the previous administrations of the AKP, and universities have been subjected to the intervention of the authorities. The first comprehensive interventions against universities took place on September 12, 1980, when juntas established the Board of Higher Education on November 6, 1981, with Law 2547. The basic task, attributed to the SEC during its establishment, was to apply the regime of obedience to universities, under the grounds of maintaining order, by suppressing teachers, students, labor movements, and by controlling the creation of knowledge and technology, the building of formal ideology and opposition movements. Voicing that he would fight the custody institutions, the ruling AKP has strengthened the ruling power of the AKP day after day over 16 years of its power, rather than removing a custody institution, such as the SEC, which was built by the generals who carried out the 1980 military coup. The centralisation of higher education has been increased day after day, with the laws, regulations and regulations imposed on the law in order to ensure that it can be managed easily and quickly. With this offer, the SEC's jurisdiction is also required to be extended. The AKP, on the one hand, tried to control all universities from one centre with the NGO, and in the other process, opened universities to market conditions and commercialised them step-by-step. Thus, during the AKP's rule, universities were restructured in line with the market's needs. By reducing scientific information to technical information, universities are trying to be significantly dependent on market demands and on AKP's governance trade strategies. Mr. President, the worthy lawmakers are extremely dangerous in terms of university autonomy and academic freedoms, which the AKP government has established on the basis of other policies and clearly expressed in this proposal. One of the magic concepts of today's neoliberal economic system is competition, both the winners and the losers. Where there is competition, there is competition, which determines market conditions and requirements. Every university, every department, every academic who doesn't produce the information that the market needs to be metabolized is trying to be discredited by failing. Failure in universities may not mean closure for now, but taking a smaller share of resources -- and therefore -- means worse conditions for employees, students. In this context, the losers of competition may be some of the remaining universities, but they can also be social and human sciences that are unable to find a place in the market. The graduates of various universities, philosophy, astrology, anthropology, are asked to be shut down on these grounds because they cannot find jobs or bring money to return capital. At the same time, universities are vital, institutional and political ground for democratic subjects to shape themselves, experience democratic relationship styles, and to be exposed and develop critical opposition to the antidemocratic ugly face of power. But this political ground must have frightened the AKP's rulings, which has sped up their involvement in higher education with political guidance. AKP's political intervention in universities has allowed the political stance of today's university to become a mythos of its ability to react to the outside world. Dear friends, AKP's most comprehensive intervention in higher education has been carried out in the OHR regime, which was declared after the coup on July 15th. Today, after the coup attempt on July 15th, the State of Emergency has become a more authoritarian, conservative, marketing and illegal institution than the organisation form on September 12th with the Turkish Cypriot regime. Thousands of academics have been expelled in the State of Emergency, dozens of universities have been shut down, disciplinary regulations have been even heavier than September 12th, parliamentary elections have been lifted, university autonomy and academic freedoms have been eliminated and sought to create acceptable academies. As a result, the sentences against academics signing the peace declaration were not limited to administrative sanctions, but lawsuits were filed for seven and a half years in prison on the grounds that the peace-signing academics were promoting separate organisations. Anti-terrorism teams have been sent to the doors of academics held in modern democracies. College campuses turned into military barracks, academic robes crushed under the feet... No doubt this image will be found in memory as the ugliest act the AKP has ever done. Here you see, the value you give to academics, academics, science, knowledge workers is right here, Mr. Secretary. Let's hope we don't ever have that kind of disrespect for our academics again. During the period of the State of Emergency, all these interventions to higher education have cleared the universities and caused the academy to become very barren. As a result of these interventions, universities have been transformed into an institution that has not been liberated in the fields of science, art and philosophy, but rather obeys political power, serves to act in accordance with the needs of capital environments, to distribute the principles of rights and integrity, to distribute status, and to open the door to unjust enrichment. The universities want to be transformed into barren places where the rising walls, security barriers, expelled academics, free thinking and science are being produced, where ideas are being suppressed, where the biat culture is tried to be placed. In short, scientific and academic values in universities are being used for specific political purposes and free science, critical thinking is being destroyed within the internal hierarchy of the university. At the same time, there are threats such as exile, psychological pressure, and even termination by being appointed outside the units of the academics and technical staff, known for their own or opposing identity. Mr. President, the High Council has prepared this proposal behind closed doors following orders from the palace. With the broadest possible participation by the regulations, public knowledge has not been conducted openly and transparently. Not all parties, unions, NGOs, academics, politicians, educators' opinions and suggestions have been received. While the academics should put programs ahead of governments, the AKP and the palace today debunk all of the country's institutions and make it a mere biat area. However, the Lima Declaration states that university components must have the freedom to create, teach, teach, develop, promote and spread, through writing, without any discrimination from the state or from any source, without any concern of interference or pressure from any source, one by one, collectively, philosophy, art, research, research, research, discussion, documentation, research. In short, scientific development, artistic production, educational progress, economic development cannot be achieved like this. Because where people can't express their ideas freely, where they can't produce them, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't. Therefore, the AKP must immediately remove its hand from the academy and campuses. Turning universities into the backyard of their own political ambitions is the greatest persecution that can be done in this country. We hope and hope that the AKP will overcome its fear of taking all these irrational steps and return this way. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0143par0055	Thank you very much, Mr. Botan. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, it belongs to Sakarya MP Mustafa Isen. Mr. Isen, come in.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0144par0059	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI on the Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures. I salute the High Council. Change is one of the most fundamental truths that function in almost every aspect of life. When it comes to education and health, there's no doubt that change is more inevitable. The success of power depends on good reading and good direction in this process of change. Those who are able to do so are in the presence of our people who are also in the clear and maintain their power. I want to express with pride that the AK PARTY has been in power for nearly 16 years with the positive approval of our nation in this sense. The dynamic position of education during the AK PARTI period has always been the most important issue, we've given him priority in our investments, and from the start, we've spent most of our time on it. I'd like to point out that success in this field is like a horizon line metaphor, so whatever you do, new problems and new possibilities will continue to be present. What's important is to be willing to deal with it in good faith. Thankfully, the AK PARTY staff have always been involved in this effort. At the point where we're here today, we're in a good place in terms of quantity, except pre-school. On various occasions, the achievements of each level of training have been expressed here from time to time. I'd like to give you some examples of the university in Sakarya, where I am both in the general framework and in the district of Sakarya, where the number of universities is 73 when we come to power is now 187. Today, we have a university in every province of Turkey, and more importantly, when you visit the cities of Anatolia today, the most visible construction sites are the most visible architectural areas of the university. Go to Erzurum. Go to Tokat. Go to Sakarya. Go to Konya. I would like to remind you of a saying by the late Nurettin Gunnery: "When our university professors start teaching the village children, the country will be saved." Of course, it didn't start with us, but it's grown with us. According to the 2017 World Economic Forum Report, Turkey ranks second in the world in the amount of access to higher education among 137 countries. In 2002, the number of students studying at universities reached 1,500,000, reaching 7 million,600,000 as of 2018. In 2002, the number of professors was 26,525, and in 2018 it increased by about three times to 75,201. In 2002, the number of teachers was 70,012, while in 2018 the number 155,305 was reached. One of the most important indicators to improve the quality of a university is the number of foreign students and foreign students. I'd like you to pay attention to the numbers I'm going to give you. In 2002, when the total number of foreign students was 10,898, we're talking about 123,157 as of today -- about 12 times that. This shows that Turkey has also been a center of attraction in the field of education in recent years. As a reflection of globalization, Turkish higher education also participated in programmes such as Erasmus, Mezlana and Farabi during this period, and about 150,000 students took advantage of them. The Sakarya University of Sakarya, where I was a member of my hometown, did not have a single foreign student in 2002. In 2018, 3,369 foreign students were educated here. These aren't just undergraduates, they have a serious amount of grad students in them. The University of Sakarya is also the only university in Turkey to qualify for the European Quality Prize. The number of foreign teachers in our country was 897 in 2002 and 3,061 in 2018. Of course, we have the ability and the expectation to increase these numbers further. Beyond that, the number of joint training protocols signed with foreign units is 207. They made agreements on quality security and joint diploma programmes, especially with Turkish and Islamic universities. Now it's time for the quality of the job. In this regard, a High School Quality Board was established and started to work fully independent. Dear friends, I find this very important, and we can't really say that we've gone over the problems we've been through in terms of quantity, but there's been a lot of work that needs to be overcome, and this board will continue its work successfully from this year forward. Higher education often provided a standard view in Turkey. In the new era, a mission differentiation has been set, and research-based universities and research-based universities have been set up, and they have been introduced into a race within themselves, creating a competitive environment. It's impossible for a university to stay here as soon as it gets to a degree. New universities will replace them with criteria that may arise the following year. Preliminary areas have been set to increase the doctorate, qualified human resources, and for that, 2,000 doctors have been given quotas. The universities of applied sciences have not been intended to achieve the goal of schools in Turkey since the day it was founded. Now at the point of their recovery, a plan of action has been initiated and new steps have been taken. Graduation and grad school scholarships have been increased. Dear lawmakers, the law that we bring to you depends on new needs is aimed at new regulations regarding the doctorate's teaching and the professorship process. In this framework, arrangements are needed to make efficient use of the service power of teachers. With this offer, the removal of the assistant professor's staff and the replacement of the doctoral faculty staff and the promotion of the financial rights of the professors who will serve here on condition of the appointment to this staff, the removal of the faculty staff and the removal of the teaching assistant staff and the training assistants and the appointment of an expert translator and educational planners to the faculty staffs with the doctor's title, is offered to teach them a lesson. In this context, the doctorate's central foreign language exam is being changed, and more importantly, the test for professorship is being lifted, thinking it's subject to subjective assessments. One of the changes brought in is the inter-university board's proposal to become more active with a new modeling that has become unable to work with increasing university numbers. This is really important, guys. The Inter-United College Board, which is based on 27 universities, is a centre for major decisions made by universities. This is where the rectors and vice presidents join. Thus, the decision was made and moved to a point where the number of universities from each university reached 187, which was almost beyond decision-making. Dear lawmakers, with these amendments that we're discussing, there are more transparent and smoother arrangements for academic upgrades, more prominent in the decision-making process of universities, which allow them to create their own brands and diversify the system. All this effort is to improve universities in our country in quality, turn them into competitive institutions with developed countries. We sincerely believe that a country cannot become a great state by transferring technology. That's what all our efforts are for. It is my pleasure to point out that in recent years, we have also witnessed significant developments in this area, particularly in the defence industry. I wish this arrangement to be a blessing to our country, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0145par0079	Thank you. In the name of the National Movement Party Group, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın is now in charge. Mr. Aydın, you also have a request for a statement on behalf of the individuals. So, since you're the last speaker, you have 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0146par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the first chapter on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the proposal for amendments to some Law and Law Orders in 519 rows. I salute your high council. Respected MPs, you know, we have over 80 million young and dynamic populations. So we can interpret this in two ways: If we can actually transform this young and dynamic population into a human resource, a productive human resource, this would be a happy news for our country, for our future. But God forbid, there's also so much risk, that if we can't turn this young and dynamic resource into a productive human resource -- we're all witnessing adversity together from time to time today -- we can't avoid witnessing a number of evil formations and improvements. Now, in this context, the fact that the greatest investment is being made to man is now a world-renowned fact. If we're really thinking about future generations, we need to make the biggest investment in human beings. Today, we are talking about a number of laws and laws on higher education, especially in the context of education, which we might call the last circle of education. I think there's actually a fact in many areas, but there's a truth in education that can never be neglected; it's useful to have a integrity, we need to consider education as a integrity. So, sir, for him, our proverbs make sense, and there's a concept called from the cradle to the grave, which the Western Union of European universities spoke of in the form of learning throughout life. So we don't have to think independently of each other by cutting the rings off. So with preschool education, elementary education, secondary education, and higher education, it is beneficial to have integrity. Why am I saying this? Because the point of saying this is that if there's no healthy structure coming from below, no matter how idealized you are, no matter how high-profile you are, you're not going to get a healthy result. So rather than radical changes, look, when we look at countries that have actually succeeded in these issues, we see that, when we look at their systems, we see that a number of steps have been taken that are open to improvements, regulations, improvements, rather than fundamental changes in education systems that they're implementing. Then why are we saying this? Because it's a real continuity. Continuity, in time, forms, shapes, and makes even the worst system positive by contributing to continuity. But if you constantly interrupt a system that you idealize, believe me, as ideal as it may be, it could produce a failure, even if it were the ideal one, because it would cause an intergenerational disconnect. Sir, now, yes, we have a process of collusion with the young republic when we say it institutionally. This process of universityization began in the 1933s and was transformed into a different structure after the 1980s. Now, what we're talking about here is a community with about 150,000 professors, especially 7,700,000 students, although it usually concerns all citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and we have administrative staff in our universities. Now, before we get into the natural materials about these things, I'd especially like to point out a number or two that's growing in our universities. Yes, our predecessors also mentioned some of it. Now there are some breakthroughs at the bone point. Yeah, we've got numbers increases, we've got a lot of colleges, we've got colleges, we've got colleges. Yes, it's a happy thing, but on the one hand, it's a very important thing to focus on when you're increasing the quantity, but it's a very important thing to focus on when you're increasing the quantity, so it's a pleasure. So we're focusing on quality, and hopefully from now on, we're particularly successful at creating a productive human resource. Now, why are we saying this? Because we have bad experiences. I'd like to use a friend's own testimony because I really think it's worth mentioning. He said: "My teacher, I have three children, all three of them have studied in different systems and are separated from each other." Now, look, whatever system you idealize, I've just pointed out, please, stability in the system is very important. Abstructive directions can be altered, transformable, but it's not a wise decision to erase a system from the top because of any nuance. Honourable MPs, we are now discussing a very important matter. We have our universities-- of course they have some problems, we're going to bring them up, they've been brought up so far, and there's some shortages, but let's not be suspicious. We're talking about some really important community issues here because we're talking about learning nests. You know, knowledge is self-knowledge. We're talking about a structure where people who know themselves are dense or where 7 million, 700,000 of our younger brothers are being dealt with. So, of course, we're going to say the negatives in bulk, we're going to sort them out in a wholety, but in a holistic sense, we're going to assume that they're the least bit unfair, inappropriate, illegal, wrong practices, and that they're not going to cause too much damage to this community, because they're really our learning homes and they're altruistic people. Now, when we look at the relevant legal content, first of all, sir, we're talking about changing the name of an assistant professor. This was different in the previous proposal; we had actually come across an offer to the disparager, such as the student, but we said: "Now that he has his Ph.D., he's qualified in art, or in medicine, a friend of ours who has acquired expertise in any branch of medical science is now an expert, he needs to be initiated into the process of teaching. We're focused on this, and why did we do it? Because we really all -- we all know our fellow academics here -- in our junior professor years, we never saw ourselves as a half-doctor or assistant professor. Believe me, that is not the answer to the practices in the West. So here's what we call the professor of Asia -- they had an academic staff, they had applications to assist the professor, but at least we've expressed that we're in favor of continuing this without compromising the status of a teaching member that he won, not for a disparity, if that's to be given up. Another important thing: again, what was in the draft we were discussing? We had a great mix-up of concepts at the assistant lecturer point, very subtitled. It was indeed a good decision to have these as a single concept, under the name of a student. Now, on the other hand, we've really talked about a lot of things about this professorial exam. We talked about it in the commission phase, we spoke about it in our previous informal meetings, and so far, speakers have expressed it here. Sir, we've made it very clear that the professorial exams are open to certain negativeities at the point of study of artifacts and in either verbal stages. We can replicate these examples, but as we've just said, there's a good chance that we can avoid a number of phrases in order to make suspicion the basis of the fact that the wrongs are generalized and that we can ignore an entire community. So we have about 37,000 -- Mr. Secretary said 35 thousand and so on -- we have an assistant professor's staff, about 36 to 37,000 -- and we have faculty. It was a general request. Such a request should be considered first to ask the members of that group, and that is the need for democracy. And while we're doing this, look, it's not acceptable for people who are very healthy judges to actually know -- and I'm ashamed to say -- to actually know -- to take a test by a self-knowing person, to bring up a universal, scientific set of criteria in the study, or in the interview jury, completely subjective, to judge them. Thus, with this law, we need to consider even the smallest nuances that can challenge such negatives. Sir, what did we do? Now, what must be done? The interview has been canceled, the oral exam has been lifted. Before that, it was perhaps thought that the colleges would be given full authority. It would have been a scandal on its own in the name of the faculty community. So it's not a certificate of admission to a professorship, but we know that the Inter-United Council now has the power to give the title of professorship and then, in the staff stage, they already have the power to add certain criteria to the professorship, whether they are assistant professors or at the university. But while we're doing it here, we also think that there's a benefit for the inter-university board to be made by the SEC, without compromising its observer, investigator, even interrogator identity -- who's doing what they're doing -- to prevent it from acting on its own. Now, why? Because we're talking about 185 colleges. Now, we're talking about the future of 150,000 people in such a large community. Sir, so, yes, we're going to make laws, we're going to issue decrees under the law, but, please, we're going to have to make sure that they act as subjective as possible by eliminating the human factor as possible, that there are some laws that are healthier, more neutral decisions or improvements. Another important thing, sir, is to change the powers of the Interstate Board. Now, look, the Inter-United Council has become a really cumbersome structure, and as soon as they... look, sir, they're going to give us an equivalency document and not wait for months. Don't let him interfere with the quotas. The quotas from the departments have been identified, established, are now useful for them to accept it, or if they are asked to form a jury, let them take it as a decision. Immediately, whatever the demand is, let our professors contribute to the decision-making mechanism very quickly, very quickly, whatever the demands of that large community of 150,000 people are. Otherwise, it's as if we're changing hands in a cumbersome structure, we're going to act in the name of a certain authority. There's a benefit to not having a perception like that. Another important thing, sir, is the foreign language issue. As a language professor, as your brother, I'm going to talk about a really painful experience. Look, in Turkey... don't underestimate our children, believe me, as a result of international research, the children of Turkish language have a very high and very successful ability to learn a foreign language. There are a number of private and foundation schools in Turkey that do that, both in secondary school and at university level. Now we've done it very well in the past. In the period when the Anatolian upper secondary schools received students after elementary school, we were able to do so with one year of prep classes. Now, without making this a terror dream of the faculty... look, a professor is now a man of authority. He's got his Ph.D., he's going to be dealing with his student in that class, international relations, sir, academic platforms. There's no point in putting this back on the line. Then where's the solution? The solution is to keep grad school very tight. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chief of Staff is here. Mr. Sfa, this has really been done for a while, but unfortunately this has been sacrificed. This has to be done quickly. The boy who's in grad school, he'll be over a year, and he'll get ten years in the future. He'll go a long way with the articles he produced, the research, the contributions he made at the meetings he attended. We've got the staff to do it. To give him the ability to speak first... what is it? It's simple, it's written and spoken to give you the ability to understand and understand what you're reading. It's a simple definition. Believe me, this definition will be very comfortable in a year.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0147par0101	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0146par0102	I've taken up a lot of your time, but if you'll excuse me one more minute, because it's important.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0147par0103	Here, describe it in a minute.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0146par0104	So, please, we can do this very comfortably in a year. As this child begins his master's degree, he has gained the linguistic ability to begin his studies, whether in health sciences or in science, or in social sciences, to begin his research, to gain access to internal and external resources. Let him investigate, read, understand, transform what he understands into literature, and carry it to an international platform very comfortably. Now, let's see if we can apply them again to a teaching person -- not just as a professor, but as a professor -- to see if they know language or not -- that's an insult to the professor. At the point of securing this gain -- the first step to expertise -- I specifically ask that the necessary steps be taken at once, and I offer you my regards, and I wish you good evening.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0147par0106	Thank you very much, Mr. Aydın. Second and final speaker on behalf of individuals, Sinop MP Nazim Mavis. Here you go, Mr. Blue. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0148par0111	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 519th Amendment proposal. I salute your high council. This law aims to benefit more efficiently than the services of the faculty. The assistant professor's staff had been put into effect to provide practical solutions to some problems, but in time, it needed to change because of a false perception in the form of an assistant to the doctrine. It has been thought that it would be appropriate for the doctor's faculty to pay attention to the meaning of the terms used for the same position in the real and world's higher education systems. Honourable lawmakers, with this offer, the assistant professorship is being lifted, the doctor's teaching membership is being brought in, and the transition of those who have finished their Ph.D. to the doctorate is facilitated. It is encouraged that researchers are more prepared for the process of teaching, given the opportunity to teach physicians. The teaching staff is simplified to be redefined in the form of a professor, professor and research worker. Once again, the interuniversity Board has changed its structure and mandate and the Inter-United Board is more dysfunctional...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0149par0116	You're right, it's being rendered more dysfunctional.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0148par0117	...to make it more functional. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, it is possible that in 2023 our country will achieve its goal to become one of the world's 10 largest economies, but only with qualified information production and qualified human resources. This makes it necessary to have a competitive higher education system on a global scale. For this reason, the AK PARTY governments viewed the university as the most important lift of its goal in Turkey. A university holds an important place in the city's economy, cultural life and development. With its RD activities, it contributes significantly to the city's industry and development. The university enriches the cultural life of a city. Academics and students are active in the city's social and cultural life. Participating in the development of the private sector, raising the horizon to investors and entrepreneurs, creating vision is one of the university's most important priorities. The opening of a university in a city means the revival of cultural and scientific life in that city, social life. The opening of a university in a city means that economic production in that city has increased quantitatively and quantitatively. Universitys are the source of the idealism of society; they are the center of knowledge and culture of a nation, the source of the culture of the nation. People's culture gathers at the university and is processed there. As Nurettin Gunny put it, the heart of the nation is the heart of the nation, and the university is the brain of the nation. All these arrangements we've made are efforts to restore our university to the mind of the nation. Mr. Mustafa Isen has just explained the numbers here. We opened universities all over Turkey. 187 universities are currently in Turkey. The universities changed cities, changed sociocultural structure. We're talking about the competition of cities now, brand cities. It was a goal by the hands of universities. It happened with the university in each of our provinces. The universities were the drivers of the development of the city by collaborating with OSBs, NGOs, rooms. Sinop University, for example, contributes to the brand value of Sinop. With tourism studies, water products studies, underwater research, Sinop University gives Sinopbook a new vision. I know that not only is Sinop University, but each of the 187 universities contributes greatly to the brand value of our province. So, this law that we're talking about here today is one of the steps that our universities have taken to increase its efficiency, power, and brand value in our cities, although it's actually a law that is considered to be a rough arrangement for co-doctorship with one side. A lot's been done. Very successful goals achieved. In our number of universities, the number of colleges, vocational institutes, the number of professors, has now taken great steps, and in the following process, by putting our teaching staffs more active in their teaching processes, to become institutions that make our universities RD and produce technology, which also contribute to regional development by differentiation of the mission. I wish this study to our universities, especially our professors, good luck to our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0150par0126	Thank you. Congressmans, we will now proceed with a question-answer procedure on the department. We'll do it for ten minutes. Five minutes is a question, five minutes is an answer. Yes, Mr. Gaytancioğlu? No. Mr. Bektasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0151par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to admit to the sects, the identities, the prime minister, the president, who accuses the president of blasphemy, who advises the founders of our republic to go to the toilet at five past 10th, who refuses to pray, who denies prayer, who says he expects the declaration of law because he did not win the Salvation War from Greece; who accuses him of being an anti-Religious, anti-Republic, anti-Ataturkian enemy, who denies prayer at every opportunity, who says that he expects the declaration of freedom from Greece; who says that he expects it to be accepted by a person in society by the highest office because he does not win the War of Islam. With these images, is this person's view accepted as true? I'm waiting for an explanation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0152par0134	Mr. Tanal? No. Mr. Gürer? No. Mr. Irgil...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0153par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, according to data from 2016-2017, the average answer rate of our students taking the LYS exams is 15 questions in their 50 math questions, according to last term, last year's SNSD data. Ten for 30 questions in chemistry. As a matter of fact, in physics, it's six in 30 questions, and so on. Most of them are under 30 percent. Even in Turkish, they were able to answer 21 questions, 21 questions, to only 21 questions. But the problem here is... so Mr. Mustafa Isen just said that thousands of students are coming from outside. Turkey is now a star. But here's an interesting thing, based on the NGO data, in 2016-2017, 1 million 977,000 students have the right to choose according to the types of high schools they graduated from, 1,370,000 in 2016... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll go ahead, finish this, finish this, Mr. President. In 2017, only 944,000 of the 1,846 thousand students made the choice. So in 2016, 587 thousand children in 2017, 822,000 children in 2017 had never made a choice in their own country. How do you explain that? Yeah, don't do it with outsiders. Do it with them.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0154par0142	Thank you. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0155par0144	I'm asking the Minister of National Education: many teachers working for your Ministry have been suspended, some expelled. We're receiving complaints that there have been objections to this, that there has been no investigation by your ministry, that he has been suspended without any grounds, and that there has been no response. Is your ministry planning to investigate any of this? Do you intend to send those involved with the organization to the prosecutor's office after you've done the investigation and then do a procedure on the extradition of those who are not involved? They say there are over 100,000 objections to the State of Emergency Review Commission. There is no way that objections can be completed quickly by a single commission. So, if it's not possible, how will the exposed, exported teachers be compensated? Our students within your ministry have housing and housing problems. When are you going to solve these dorm problems, or are you going to leave our children back to the cult dorms? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0156par0147	Mr. Erkan Aydın...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0157par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: we've seen from the press that this 20,000 teachers' appointment is due this month. Now, there has been a great expectation of disabled teachers at these appointments. Are you going to bring such good news to include the appointment of disabled teachers? And my second question is... this is 5,000, and then you said you'd get 25 grand in total. We have close to 400,000 teachers waiting for the appointment, so it's actually going to be at a very low rate, just like 1 in eight. Will you make another appointment in August, and if you do, how many will that be? Finally, will the 2016-2017 KPSS be valid at these appointments, or do you expect a new KPSS? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0158par0153	Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0159par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I'd like to point out that I'm not satisfied with the reviews and responses of the general and the department. Really, the fundamental issue is: I mean, why is this priority in universities, in the SEC, when students and academics have such big problems and criticisms about the education system have arisen on behalf of the public, and on behalf of those who work in this field? So right now, the main problem with the NGO is the removal of assistant professorship and replacing it with a doctor's teaching degree? We say we're not satisfied with the reasons, but as Secretary, I want you to explain this priority. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0160par0157	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0161par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. As the head of the largest budgetary ministry, Mr. Minister, you and I as representatives of the law have suffered from, you know, a gangrene that has taken place in the waiting position of 400,000 candidates for teachers. In fact, we're all responsible for this. Because, really, like matrushka dolls, we've built these kind of collaborative universities, the same departments, the same universities, the same universities -- in form -- and it's come to today. Now, we've discussed it here with the Inter-United Council on the Commission, and since I don't have time, I'd like to express it -- we have concerns at the point of a second degree and a number of activities. In particular, at the point of a second paid education, a dissimilar master's degree or pedagogical formation or any certificate program, let's do it very carefully here. Because these 400,000 figures will be found in each industry, each profession, 400, 500, 600. We'd like to be sensitive about that, thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0162par0161	Mr. Botan...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0163par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Minister of National Education: Mr. Minister, you know that a reading and writing campaign has been launched in the area. I couldn't agree more, if needed. As the Ministry of National Education on this issue, it is sufficient for you to issue a regulation, but now there are serious problems in the local community. The reason is, do you know that the rangers who have nothing to do with education or the course, or perhaps should be included in these courses, are practically educators? Again, soldiers, imams, et cetera, it's a serious problem right now. Do you know anything about this? These courses, reading and writing campaigns may be a need, and they're schools, teachers that will satisfy that need. For this, the regulation should be published, and these courses will be carried out at the end of the week. However, there is the involvement of the rangers and the threat of families, people. Do you intend to conduct a study of this matter?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0162par0164	Thank you. Now to answer the questions, I leave the word to our Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz Bey. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0164par0167	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, it was sent by the Ministry in 81 to the procedure and the basis for the campaign of reading. It stated that the right to education in the Constitution and particularly adult reading and writing training are the basis for life-long learning. When it entered 2008, the number of illiterate adults dropped to 2,744,000 in 2012, when the number of illiterate adults was 4,863, 9.4 per cent at 9.24 per cent, as a result of the Mother Girl's Campaign, which was launched by our President. There is a Human Development Report of the UNDP, the United Nations Development Programme. In that development report, the percentage of people who are 15 years old and over illiterate is 95 percent, so the percentage of those who don't know is 5%. In 2002, the figure is listed as 85.1%, so in 2002, 15 of the 100 people in this community were unable to read or write, and now it has fallen below five. We want to reduce that number even further. Everyone look at their own family, their immediate surroundings. I think we want to be able to help read to those who are over 80 or over 70, who are their mothers and grandfathers at this age, and it may not only be Turkish citizens, but for some reason, those who are seeking temporary asylum in Turkey in some way... Because we founded the Yunus Emre Institute. Our goal here was to teach Turkish. Where? He's going to his own country, Turkish... Somehow, one way or another, if they came to our country, we wanted to include them in the reading and writing courses. Another deputy of ours has a problem with the founders of the Republic of Turkey, so this problem... It's absolutely unacceptable to society. Sadi Shirazi has a very beautiful saying: "No matter what the value of a stone touches a golden bowl, no matter what the value of a stone is, it does not increase its value, nor does it cost our values to throw stones at us. " Therefore, if everyone has done what they have done, something troubling is a matter of itself.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0165par0171	The government's value is falling, sir, the value of power is dropping, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0164par0172	Like I said, it's about him. We want all our values accepted, adopted by our children. That's how society is united, looking to the future with more hope and strength. Another issue, again -- similar to earlier questions -- teachers have been suspended or expelled. The number of teachers suspended by our ministry is currently around 500, not even under 600. So, we as the Ministry are really working to sort out the deficit of the teachers that we've been suspended in some way, we're getting a review, and that's the first one. However, nearly 3,000 teachers were also suspended by governors in the provinces. So we can't extradite the governorships. However, I've asked our Home Secretary, please, whatever decision they've reached as soon as their investigations have been completed, even if it's a problem for the public to stay -- if the governor of the state, in some way, gets them to work and deliver them to us when they come to a decision of their own. So there are about 500 of them in the Ministry now, and about 3,000 in the governorships. We're working on that as soon as possible. There are some who have been exported, and our deputy told us. But then, when the governors left, and there was a decision that there was no prosecution, there were 10 extradited in the State of Emergency Commission so far. Why was it returned? It's happened in a lot of them. Let's say we had ByLock. We exported him. But he went to the prosecutor's office last time, and it wasn't determined that he was ByLock. He sent back on him that there was no place for prosecution. We'll do whatever it takes to get our teachers back on duty as soon as possible. I've been told about the dorm problem. Look, as our Ministry, I'm not saying that the Kredi Homes are now within our Ministry -- we have about 200,000 guesthouse capacity, about 150,000 residents, about 50,000 people at an empty capacity, so there's 150,000 students at a capacity of 200,000, 50,000 empty; there's about 75 percent of fullness. And so we want to make sure that we don't leave our children to anyone, whether it's the foundation or the foundation, without anything else, and they don't declare civil society organizations guilty on a biased basis, but we want this mission to be first handed down by the government. We're trying to work on it, but know that there's an opening at the state boarding house, for middle school, and there's no filling. And the loan went from 200,000 to about 600 grand in the dorms, and there's still a shortage? Yes, but new dorms are being built. Hopefully we'll get rid of this as soon as possible. Again, there are no disabled teachers involved in the appointment of 20,000 teachers, but as soon as the additional 500,000 teachers -- our prime minister expressed it -- we're going to announce the purchase, very shortly. Will you make a new appointment in August? No, we will not make a new appointment.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0166par0178	You're rooting out the problem, Mr. Secretary, you're saying 500, 500, I think.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0164par0179	500, 500. He can't be that disabled, so when you say "challenged teacher," it means you've had a slip.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0166par0180	No, we're glad, actually.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0164par0181	But like he said, you don't have to describe it to Arife anyway, so the disabled teacher is 500...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0167par0182	Sir, if we have that many staffs, everyone is voluntarily disabled.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0164par0183	No, let's not do that either. Again, a representative of ours asked me, "What is this priority?" We don't have a law on education right now on the Commission, we have friends from the Board of Education. So we pass whatever law comes from our ministry, whether it comes from higher education or from higher education. Is there anyone else? Is this a priority? We have no other law waiting in line. Is it necessary? It is needed, and we have spent it for it. Secondly, certified education, Kamil Hodja, I agree, absolutely, you shouldn't be certified for money, you shouldn't have bilateral training.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0168par0186	It's become a commercial meta.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0164par0187	From now on, with our institute of higher education, new education schools, if you notice, if you follow them, no education has been opened in the last four or five years, and there's really more than enough. New, we agreed last year, we all agreed to a law, a Board of Higher Education Planning. What is the purpose of the Higher Education Planning Board? Which schools will be opened, which departments will be opened, and how much quotas will be given to these departments, so that the Board of Higher Education Plans can decide so that our students who have finished college may intertwin with their hopes.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0168par0188	Work-focused, sir.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0164par0189	Sir, that's exactly what we were trying to get out of the law. Thank you, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0169par0191	Thank you, Minister. Now, we're going to begin the motion discussion on matter and materials on the department. There are three motions on Article 1, which I will have read and process in order of violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the first article of Law Proposal 519 be removed from the proposal text. Gaye Beslier Mustafa Akadın Sibel Özdemir Atila Sertel Ömer Fethi Gürer Mustafa Ali Balbay Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0170par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0169par0206	Anthalya MP Mustafa Akadın has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0171par0209	Mr. President, on behalf of my group, I have made a pledge on the 1st Amendment of Law Proposal 519. I salute you all with respect and love. Now, Minister, first of all, I'd like to offer you a service. You've just mentioned a proverb: "The golden stone touches the rough stone, neither gains stone nor loses gold. " I understand this: So the education policies of the Justice and Development Party are represented as golden vessels, and are we critical of them? I don't want to understand it this way, obviously, but it's like you've created this perception of these conversations in your previous conversation.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0172par0211	No, it's not that, it's an explanation for Mr. Bektasoglu.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0171par0212	Anyway, after this hanging out, I want to get to the bottom of it. Dear lawmakers, I have lived as the most lively side since the law of Turkish higher education in 1981, which is the Law of Higher Education, number 2547, and here we have struck 2547. The interests of the entire Republic of Turkey are related to education. But I still want to cherish my teacher, Ihsan Wrenchman, because there were innovations that this law brought to the Republic of Turkey, but because it was a revolutionary law, there were sides that didn't open the way for totalitarian and autonomy. And it's okay to make that clear. But you came to power in 2002 as the AKP, and then -- I remember -- you presented an action plan called an emergency action plan. In this action plan, you also promised serious changes in Turkish higher education. We're waiting, it's been 16 years since 2002, and right now, I don't think I've seen any serious, tangible reforms, Mr. Secretary, as a former chancellor, as a former chairman of the Inter-Unital Board. It's just, he's -- he's not here now -- I'm guessing Mr. SEC President's special efforts have been made last year in terms of higher education quality. So I'd like to thank Mr. Yekta Saraç, the head of the RDC, but other than that, we haven't seen anything. The emergency plan came up with a plan to replace the current rectors at the time, nothing else. So far, I'm looking at, as the Higher Education Board in 2005, despite the fact that we strongly disagreed with the rectors, we said that poor universities would be opened, and only new universities would be opened, but the number of universities in Turkey has come close to 190, but our quality problem remains serious. But in the meantime, I'd especially like to honor the late Erdogan Tezic as President of Güçük. Many reformists, such as the integration of Turkish universities with the European higher education system in the Bologna Process of their own personal effort, the giving of equivalent diplomas, the Erasmus projects, especially the innovations in quality in academic criteria during Kemal Glek, have been done, but none of them have been written as a positive in the book of your current government, the AKP. We need to underline these. Now, we're looking at one of the issues that has come up so far... that last year, you changed the rectors' appointment system by a higher mind or by a scholar or an ignorant person in Turkish higher education. Is it true? Friends, the weakest thing about Turkish universities from the world universities is that they lack academic, administrative and financial autonomy. All universities have about eight criteria for evaluation of autonomy. Turkish universities are among the worst universities in the world, with a score of a point and a half from eight -- along with Japan. We expect you to change them, and you come up and bring them to us: "We have removed the assistant professorship. Did E get up? He didn't get up, there's another assistant professorship, he's changed his name. What's his name now? He's a PhD professor. Guys, that's a ridiculous thing to say, let's not fool each other, would a doctorate without a doctorate or something like that exist? A professor without a doctorate is in one of the only fine arts, such as painting, music, a fellow professor already has a doctorate, and I'm telling you right now that assistant professors at Turkish universities feel severely discredited by the destruction of this concept that we've been accustomed to for 36 years. There's about 37,000 of them. 47% of the academic staff of Turkish education, higher education, are these young friends. Nothing's changed, you just seem to make the appointment criteria a little easier. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I have some more time, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0173par0218	Pick it up in a minute, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0171par0219	I'll clean it up. What's the matter now that you've made it easy, so the quality of the faculty has increased? You're looking at England, the number of Turkish higher education students is one-third, but the number of professors is 75,000 at Turkish universities -- look, I mean the Ph.D. -- but the number of professors at British universities is 200,000, but the number of professors is equal to ours, so I'll tell you that they're being forced to appoint or upgrade. If you go to quality, they have quality. What did we do? We've lifted the foreign language exam. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, there's no way and no way that a scholar, a professor, who doesn't speak a proper foreign language, who doesn't speak at least one language, or, in my opinion, is a quality professor today. So, yes, you made it easy, but you compromised quality. It seems that this is the political effort of a new staffing to open the way for people who have failed exams so far, nothing more. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0174par0224	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the change in Article 1 of the main Law Proposal (2/2099) in the following way. Saffet Sandzak Kamil Aydın Zuhal Topcu The term "doctor's professor" was changed in the first article of Article 4 of Article 926, dated 27/7/1967 and added to Article 926. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0175par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0174par0238	On the motion, Mr. Ruhi Ersoy, Osmaniye MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0176par0241	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Of course, as an academic MP, we can say a lot of things about the general law here, but this has come to some point in the commissions as well. But at the heart of these practices, some of the elements, rituals, have also gone to the ground of serious discussion. But, despite all of this, after these practices that have been approved or passed to find something better, or better, we believe there will be new laws that will be needed, depending on the new circumstances that will arise. We don't want to go into too much detail about it. However, we support the fact that the National Defence University has been identified with the same concepts as other universities in the NGO, where the assistant doctor's declaration has been passed as a professor. With that, I'd like to share some thoughts on the University of National Defense. We all know that the act of treason costs Turkey a great deal. This was the visible part of the July 15th betrayal of the operation's expression. We see that the most traumatic subject of this job is in the field of education, and we see all kinds of reflections of what they've done to human resources in the educational system. We also see that the government is struggling to repair the gaps from here in the National Education Special, and then abroad in the Maarif Foundation special, but in doing so, we remind it to do so on the basis of its integrity. In addition, one of the good deeds is the establishment of the National Defence University and the establishment of military training as a whole within the National Defence University. It's very important that the distinctions such as the previous Black Harp, Deniz, etc. are made by a roof in the National Defense University because, according to some information we've learned, these evil centers have become a university trying to introduce national, national and universal standards to these schools in a very different way, the first five universities in Turkey, which we prided on in a very different way, and we also want to know that the University of National Defense is a more national, technical and technologically significant number of students in terms of military savings, because we need to know that there is a significant number of national, national and universal standards in terms. We need to remember that there is a leading force in the Turkish modernisation process of training the Turkish Armed Forces and Turkish Armed Forces, and that many of the leading forces have passed through the training of the Turkish Armed Forces. In everyday life, we still say that he was able to return home and return to health. Being discharged is not about a patient getting better and going to a battalion, but about going home. Why did he become a clerk? When we actually move, we would like to remind you of the fact that education in Turkish military has been based on the establishment of the Baytar school and in the entire process of modernisation. Another fact is that in the history of the Turkish Armed Forces of 2,200 years, education is constant in Turkish. At different times, different languages could be state language in Seljuklu, Ottoman, republican acquistors. In particular, Seljuklu was able to be in everyday life in Turkish, Persian in the palace, official language in Arabic. But, friends, may I remind you, the language of military education has been Turkish. He also played an important role in the development of Turkish education. It is our wish that the University of National Defense be a university that moves from these realities. This national buildup, especially in the depths of the history of the Turkish Armed Forces of 2,200 years, is a school that can carry knowledge, knowledge, accumulation, modern, modern, national elements to universal standards. In this regard, we know that our resources within the public bureaucracy, particularly the finances, are intensively given to education. Our education is still debated, even though our budget has been given large income education. Why are we not successful in education, in culture, in art? We also need to look for important answers to the question. They were transferred back in the day, but as of today, the children of this country are in a state of state. We call it education, education, education. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0177par0250	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading the final motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the doctor's professor, which is included in the 1st article of Law Proposal 519, be changed into professor of Asia. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir İbrahim Ayhan Sibel Yiğitalp Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Nihat Akdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0178par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0177par0263	İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0179par0266	Mr. President, my dear lawmakers, speaking friends, on both departments, have actually expressed enough. We're actually talking about a staffing law that doesn't have any international literature in return for its concepts. So, I'd like to tell you a little bit about my friends today, and I'd like to talk to you about something different. But I want to talk about the older ones, the older ones, the older ones. I want to put them aside for once, no matter how much it hurts what young people go through. ▪ Is there another generation that really pays the price as much as our generation? You know, sometimes when you talk like you're still a victim, believe me, it makes you want to rebel. Now, Celalettin Can, one of Turkey's longest men in prison after 12 September, served 19 years in prison, Celalettin. And when Damascus Altan, Onur Hamzaoglu, was released from prison many, many, many, many years ago, in my interview with Jaleelettin. In the 70's, more accurately, 73-74 to 80's, as a generation of people who loved the country and loved it more than 18-20's, the Mahir Teas, the Deniz Gezmis, the youth group of all over the world, the independenceist, the antiemperist, the anti-fascist, the anti-fasciststs, the people who loved it more than themselves. Now, I'd really like to ask: these people are just like me, at my age, and they're actually going to retire and go on trips, you know, playing backgammon in coffee, reading books, not much of a show, but they're going to watch soap operas and cook chestnuts. So, are we crazy, I mean, what's the big deal, really, what are we dealing with? You know, why do we get up when we can do these things, we become a Celalettin Can, we build an initiative of 78? Not just for ourselves, but for everyone who was a victim at the time, we're trying to restore their rights. And there's a really long debate in this House, at the end of the three-hour debate, maybe the last 20 years, more likely, with the largest majority of votes, and the rights are being returned. After that, the government says to him, "Will you become a man?" And now, Celalettin is always the same Celalettin, but since the state is always the same state, they're putting Celalettin back in jail yesterday because he's anti-war. Then we become another friend, Onur Hamzaoglu, and in Dilova, even the breast milk is poisoned, and the public's health is seriously threatened, and they get angry, and they save it, and they keep it aside. Then we become HDK spokesman, we become peace academics, we get kicked out of the academy with a KHK. It's not enough that war is bad for public health. We become Shamil-Altan, we become socialists. I wonder if I can help normalize this country if I take a hint of this, we're building the Peace Bloc, we're becoming a member of it, but it's not enough, they're taking it in again. We get up, we become a Gültan Kışanak; the jails of September 12th, the tortures are not enough; we get up and we become mayor of Diyarbakır, and then we try to prevent conflict, and then we come and testify to the coup commission in this Parliament, and they take it the night we give it, and they throw it in jail. And then we get up, like me, and when we're 17, we meet the prisons before September 12th, because we don't hand out flyers. After that, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're ▪ Without women's rights in this country, women will never be free. We rebel against male violence, and as if it wasn't enough, we become HDP MPs. We're all really white friends with white hair, but we're all white inside and white, I'd like to say. You think we don't know how to play backgammon, don't you think we don't know how to take a vacation, how to live another life? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'd like a moment.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0180par0275	Complete, please, just a minute.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0179par0276	Yeah, we know all this, but it's going heavy, it's opening up, and that's why we've really been fighting for the democratization of this country for years. And by the way, don't call us judges. Release our friends politically. That's how we saw life, that's how we loved it. You know how they say that's my style? That's how we do it, we're hopeless. Don't touch the gray hairs, the 78s. Today I learned another story about someone I respect very much, Omar Faruk Gergerlioğlu, former President of Mazlum-der. Today Omar Faruk Gergerlioğlu was sentenced to two and a half years in prison. What did Gergerlioglu do? When we die, we're no different from each other. Instead of our children's coffins, let them live together, equally, brotherly and shoulder to shoulder. I salute him, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0181par0280	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, the Commission has a request for a reduction. Here you go. Mr. President, we have a request for a review of the title of the proposed Law Proposal. In order to be more in line with the law-making technique, we respectfully submit to your appreciation for the request to change the title of the proposal to the higher education law and to the amendment of the Law and the Law.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0182par0285	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0181par0286	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0182par0289	Mr. President, something similar happened last week in the KHKs, but this time, you know, the special situation of that KHK, the demand that exceeds the process, you say, is still being dealt with, but now, it's not the right demand to change the name of a law with the demand for reduction, and it also shows how little attention is being given to the legislation process. There's a commission meeting, there's MPs from all parties, sitting, arguing, discussing, being transferred here. In fact, sometimes you say when we have claims against the Constitution, there's nothing we can do after this time. There's nothing we can do about it. So the entire Ministry, with its bureaucracy, with its Commission, with its power, with its opposition, is sitting down, where the demand for a change is being made through editing the title of the law. So it has nothing to do with our respect for each other in the legislature, not with the seriousness of the House, not with the importance of the House. There's no way to open up something like this. If there's such a mistake, there's a way to follow it, there's a way to do it. The government may demand to withdraw it, such a request from the Commission can be evaluated by the General Assembly, they will withdraw it, and we will not say eight hours to the Commission, they will go tomorrow morning, they will correct it, they will bring it back again, but it will not change the name of the law through such rejection, it is not right.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0181par0290	Mr. Special, thank you. Your statements are on the record. However, the names of the law have been corrected in different ways before. If, as you put it, there were no changes to be made here, then there would have to be no motion at all here, under any circumstances. It's all about finding the truth. And there's a lot of examples of it before. To find this truth, to put the right title...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0182par0291	Now, Mr. President, if we gather, if we go in the back, everyone will say, "You're telling the truth, it's something that exceeds the authority to redact. We all know what a reduction is. The name of a law doesn't change with a demand for editing, it doesn't happen. The Commission was where this was supposed to be. He came here, and now, normally, this has to go back to the Commission and get better there. Even if you're going to do this here -- and I don't think you should, and I don't think I would, but you say, "We're going to do it this time, so that we don't set another example, let's just make it a challenge, but let them know that we're not going to change names here again, that's not gonna happen. This is incompatible with the seriousness of living. Tomorrow another vice president will sit where you sit, another request will come in, and he will take the authority to redesign it; this time, he will intervene in the legislature of the House. So, everything has its consequences, its manners. Parliament operates here with written and unwritten rules. But everything has been exploited by bureaucracy, by the government and by the administration, by Parliament. You don't have to open this road or close it on record for the last time. Yeah, well, no one can change the name of the law because we're redacting it, so it's not right. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0183par0294	Thank you, Mr. Special. I assume they'll consider your sensibilities. In fact, I wish it would come to that here, but without any motions, without any changes, we could discuss all of this and sort things out. There are examples of this before.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0184par0295	Mr. President, it's not a motion. The child was born, named after him, registered in the population, and he'll start elementary school, so you say: "Let's change his name."
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0183par0296	Yeah, you're right, I wish it didn't. I draw their attention to your advice, your suggestions, your sensitivities, at this point. That's how your request for this revision was filed. If the proposed proposal is accepted, the process of redacting will be carried out by our president. With this request for reduction, I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I read and process: To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We demand and demand that the following jokes be added to the article in the form of professors of Asia. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir İbrahim Ayhan Sibel Yiğitalp Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Nihat Akdoğan Teachers: Experts, translators, and educational planners are assigned to higher education institutions. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0185par0315	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0183par0316	Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş is demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0186par0319	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, we're going to continue to speak on the matter of the law. In a statement on behalf of our group on the first day, he expressed the basis for which this law was formed on behalf of our group, Mr. Mahmut Toğrul. Even more so, our views grew here. So, in fact, the priority of this law is why we're going to continue to evaluate it today, today, on our assistant professorial agenda. However, today is Earth Mother Language Day. As a citizen of Turkey whose native language has been banned, I will not be able to pass on Earth's Mother Language Day. First of all, I'd like to say that the language that disappears all over the world, the language that vanishes, the language that vanishes, and the 6,000 languages in the world that exist in this way, and the thousands of languages that are destroyed because of the bans, some of them face destruction. But I would like to take this opportunity to celebrate Earth's Mother Language Day. And in my native language, I'm going to call it....................... in my native language...................... in Let's hope it doesn't go by the term "x." The right to celebrate our own native language, in our native language, is rarely seen. Dear MPs, yes, there are many different languages in Turkey. Turkish official language. We all learn Turkish in schools. We do our university education in Turkish, starting from elementary school, even kindergarten, our universities, all of our graduate studies, all of our higher languages, but there are other languages spoken in Turkey, where millions of people speak. One is Kurdish. The pressures on the Kurdish language, which is the native language of 20 million citizens, are of the same age as the history of the Republic of Turkey. We often say the importance of the native language, but let us not forget that man lives in his native language, he grows in his native language, and the mother tongue is our essence. When we were kids, we grew up with the language we learned from our mother, our father, our family, the street. That's why we, the People's Democratic Party, have always presented it to the Constitutional Compromise Commission on behalf of the BDP at the time, today as the Democratic Party of Peoples: life in the main language is a basic human right. Life in the native language is to be able to use your own language, to study, and to use it in all aspects of life. So, where are we today? Today, the language spoken by 20 million citizens, the language spoken by Kurds, is still a forbidden language. At one time, the AKP established the Institute of Living Languages at Artuklu University, without calling it Kurdistan, because it had lifted the bans on the native language. A phase that even then was presented as a great blessing, but today at Artuklu University, the Institute of Languages is under wind, not appointed academics, but the existing academics were expelled. At the University of Artuklu right now, no academic study of the native language is available. We even walked, ran, some of us did it, some of us didn't. It's still banned from Turkey. I'm afraid we can't use that in official correspondence. We just looked online and there were three Kurdish language teachers assigned to thousands of teachers. 20 million citizens were appointed 2 Kurmancis and 1 Zazaki teachers. Now, so the pressures on language, the rejection of primary language education, the barriers to the use of the native language, the discrimination, other discrimination, and opposition, unfortunately, are deepening. In fact, no native language can ban power, nor is it in the monopoly of any power. Although my native language is banned, I can use Kurdish as much as Turkish today, even though it is forbidden. Our children, millions of children, listen to Turkish from the teacher at school and start training in a ten-nil way. Therefore, all prohibitions in front of primary language education... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll give you my last sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0187par0330	Complete.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0186par0331	It's the mother tongue, so I guess you'll have to pull some strings.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0187par0332	Let's not argue with you. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0186par0334	Today, education in the main language really needs to be granted constitutional and legal security because without education, the danger of the language being destroyed and destroyed is enormous. Like the thousands of languages spoken in the world, Zazaca is now among the languages that are forgotten and destroyed. If we can still talk about Kurmanci, the Kurmanci, which is a dialect of Kurdish today, I say it's about the insistence, the struggle and the ownership of Kurds in their language. Once again, I wish the people of the world and the citizens of Turkey happy Mother Language Day. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0188par0338	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 2/11/19 of Law Proposal 519 be replaced as follows by Article 3/19 and Article 3/47 of Article 3 (m) which has been replaced by Article 4/11/1981 and Article 2547. Gaye Beslier Mustafa Akadın Sibel Özdemir Atila Sertel Ömer Fethi Gürer Mustafa Ali Balbay (2) He has completed his studies successfully, has an academic title in medicine, dentistry, medicine, and veterinary expertise, or an academic title that has qualified at one of the specific arts departments identified by the Interuniversity Board on the recommendation of the Inter-university Board. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0189par0351	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0188par0352	Anthalya MP Mustafa Akadın has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0190par0355	Mr. President, I'd like to explain my views on Article 2 in this way: Is he dreaming about whether or not I know or a higher mind -- no matter how you evaluate it -- he's having a vision, he's saying: let's say, well, it's about higher education or education, like in the TEOG exam. Exactly, and you know that this assistant professorship came to Turkey's agenda in July 2017. Now we're all talking about how this is supposed to happen here. Friends, the concept of assistant professorship is based around the world, especially in the United States in the 20th century. He entered Turkey as an assistant professor at Middle East Technical University in 1956, as it was proposed by Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). But then, in 1982, when the RD Act came out, it was thought to be a concept that was transferred from the U.S.A. We'll take this one, but we'll call it the assistant professor. It's settled in Turkey, dear friends. So we have 37,000 assistant professors in Turkey and this concept has been established for 36 years. So I'm asking you: how will the world look to our friends who want to use this new concept in foreign languages, English-speaking countries, but who wants to use it in foreign languages? Think about how you're going to translate it into English, the PhD professor. We'll look ridiculous, dear friends. So we can translate the assistant professor, which we already have. Now I want to say that this concept has become so common in the world that its use in the United States is now being used as a stage in the world, Britain, France, Germany, even Saudi Arabia, Iran, Japan, China, Russia, all of these countries. So I don't understand why we're trying to lift that concept. Now, about that... we've changed teaching duties in 2547. What was in 2547? There was a lecturer, there was a translator, there was a lecturer, there was a concept of Asia; his name was translated into a researcher. Now, we're putting all of this together as an education officer, we've made it simple. But all of these concepts are different friends, it's not simplified, it's complicated. In English, a concept used to teach at vocational institutes, which is not necessarily a Ph.D. in the way it is accepted in Turkey, is an English term for "lecturer" or "instructor" (e.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a.a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. It's not like a lecturer is a lecturer who's supposed to be teaching extracurricular courses, mandatory, elective courses. So you can't integrate it into this concept, so you can convert it into soup, if you combine it. Research is a different thing, it's a different thing, it's a different thing. Dear friends, look, translation is a different thing, professor, teaching advice is a different thing. You can't give these people the title of professorship, doctorate or no doctorate. So a translator or a lecturer can't be responsible for teaching a student, which is their job, which is to do the work of a computer technician. So, I'm sorry, we're in the middle of something ridiculous, and we're occupying the agenda of the House. And I also want to say that I really think that under the name of this very important law, or rather, the law is not important, that I try to change the name of the law that makes very important changes in education, that it should go through the commissions in some way. Guys, the last thing I'm going to say about this article is that we're going to care a lot about a bunch of our academic students, a lot of our hard work, a lot of money, and we pushed our students out of Article 33, and last summer, we put them in Article 50, and we exported most of them from universities, and we sent them out with another phrase. Guys, this is a huge injustice to Turkish national education, university education. So if there's an F-type organization member, if there's a member of a terrorist organization, let's sort them out, but I'm saying let's get these students back into the Turkish college system, and I want to give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0191par0362	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main law proposal (2/2099) in the current article (m) is number 3 of the article 2 (m) of the original Law Proposal. We demand and demand that the lu bend be replaced as follows. Saffet Sandzak Kamil Aydın Zuhal Topcu Spiritual Ersoy Muharrem Varlı Baki Lightning Dr. Professor: He has successfully completed his doctoral studies, has an academic title in medicine, dentistry, medicine, and veterinary expertise, or an academic title that is qualified at one of the specific arts branches identified by the Board of Higher Education on the recommendation of the Inter-United Council. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0192par0375	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0191par0376	Adana MP Muharrem Varlı has asked for a statement on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0193par0379	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised a motion on the 2nd Amendment on behalf of our group, and I hereby salute you all. We're discussing a bill of legislation that was discussed by the National Ministry of Education bureaucrats and the National Education Commission, described today as the assistant professors' law that we meet at the General Assembly. I hope it brings good results to our nation and our educational system. Of course, there are many challenges here that only the university department has experienced beyond the problems of academics. Firat Çakıroğlu was martyred two years ago. I ask for God's mercy, and I remember him with respect, and he is our sworn martyr brother. On one side of these universities are students who strive to study, and on the other side, members of separatist terrorist organizations who try to stop them, unfortunately, exist. That's one of the biggest problems in colleges. It is also important to offer our educational system to people, to make it easier for students and to ensure that they can learn more. In this regard, these kinds of problems have hurt a lot of people in the past few years. One of them is our brother, Fırat Çakıroğlu. I pray for God's mercy again, and I remember him with all due respect. Again, it is, of course, right to increase the number of universities. It's not right to say bad about what's good done, but there are problems with increasing the number of universities, increasing the number of students, and not finding jobs in return. We need to increase the number of colleges and the number of students, and we need to increase the number of jobs, and we need to get these graduates employed as soon as possible. This should be one of our most important tasks. Both the Ministry of National Education and the government need to take sufficient precautions and put our graduate students to work as soon as possible. Well, there are a lot of teachers who can't be assigned to them. For years, his family had contributed financially to his education, many of whom may have been poor, who had completed his education when he could not afford to study, but we still have many brothers who were not assigned to teach today and who were still waiting in line. Hopefully, Mr. Secretary of State and the Ministry of National Education will quickly take precautions and continue to serve as teachers, and each of them will contribute to their own family's salary, and hopefully, they'll have a good home, so I'd like to remind them of this problem. Again, with the number of universities increasing, the number of students has increased, and unfortunately there are dorm problems. Although there have been significant investments recently, although many new homes have been made, unfortunately, are not enough. Mr. Director of Credit and Homes is working really hard on this, and he's a close friend of ours, but it's not enough, we need to increase the number of dorms. It is one of the most important tasks of the state and government to not let our students fall into the hands of the congregations, not to let them fall into the hands of the mentally ill, and to make sure that they complete their studies in those homes provided by the state with their own means. In the past years, the last group of terrorist organizations to act as the "cemaat" and to commit the treasonous coup attempt on July 15th, unfortunately took advantage of the shortage of these homes and the inadequacy of their homes, and took many supporters. And before I forget, we need to ensure that every student who wants to complete the number of dorms and wants to be able to stay in one of those dormitories is also the target of our country right now, given other communities with goals and goals, who are trying to infiltrate our state's capillaries. I think it's an important government mission, too. Again, it is my union that deserves to be appointed from the top of the staff, my union is good, your union is bad, it's not right, it's not right... Mr. President, may I complete?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0194par0387	Please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0193par0388	I just want to say that it would be very right for people who really know that they deserve to be made assistant manager/manager with their savings. It's one of the most reasonable things in our religion to not get the rights. As the prophet Our Lord put it, give us the right of a worker and a worker's forehead before the sweat dries. It is likely to set a good example for us. We have to give whoever deserves it, your man, my man, the logic of it will not be right. Our country needs well - brought-up executives who are really good at what they do and who have the pleasure of getting the community to accept them. And in that sense, we'd like to see things done right. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit04spe0194par0391	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0195par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 519. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. There are three motions on the third article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 3 of the Law Proposal 519 which is currently being discussed in the following way. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir İbrahim Ayhan Nihat Akdoğan Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Sibel Yiğitalp Mehmet Emin Adıyaman The first paragraph of Article 11 (a) of Law 3-2547 has been removed from the text of a professor's declaration for four years from the Armed Forces of General Staff. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0196par0018	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0195par0019	İzmir MP Ertugrul Kürkcı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0197par0021	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with love and respect. I've made a commitment to this clause, but I'd like to stay on the whole bill in general. Basically, we've been talking about every law that's been in the House for the last four or five years, whether the bag is disguised as law or another law. More likely, he is coming to run this Assembly, along with other things that could be put next to him during the implementation of legislation amendments needed by the government or the President. This law is primarily the matter of the Parliament implementing an sanction imposed by the President to remove the concept of co-authorship or the assistant professorship in the academic hierarchy and allow the doctorate to be treated as a professor. In this respect, this bill must be rejected because in any way an academic need, an academic request, is not the result of an academic desire to regulate it from below; it is essentially a measure aimed at overcoming obstacles to the government's fans that have been disbursed after the major liquidation movement that began with July 15th in Turkey. It's not a joke, the number of academics expelled is 2.346, according to the number I know. If you've thrown 2,346 people away, it's obvious that there will be 2,334 other people who are eagerly waiting to jump in their place, perhaps 2,334 other people who want to move their feet. That is the sole purpose of this arrangement. What does this provision have to do with the fulfillment of the desire for the university to govern itself, the establishment of a freer academic environment, the collapse of the positivist ideology that took place on behalf of the AKP yesterday, as our deputy, speaking on behalf of the whole law said? To let a university run itself freely... from above, from a place that has nothing to do with university or even a university experience... is it said to be removed from a place where there is no doubt? Can such a thing happen, can it be defended? On the other hand, the universities of Turkey have positivism, but what do we do with positivism? What are we supposed to replace the measurement and the experiment with? Obviously, we're being told that we need to put our faith in it. There's so much language that you'd think there's a tremendous ignorance in the field of science philosophy in this university. And in that respect, it's unrequited. You shut down all the philosophy departments at the university. You've eliminated staff and resources in universities dedicated to philosophy and sociology. Now he's going to beat positivism. If you love God, who read the book of Auguste Comte? The book of August Comte was translated into Turkish only in the 2000s. And until that day, no one had ever read this book and talked to it. Now, if you really need a talent, an acquish to discuss positivism, then why are you pulling back the ranking of the foreign language exams? If you want to be a positivist or a Marxist, you're basically a self-loathing community.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0198par0025	Complete, please, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0197par0026	In the period when the Justice and Development Party was in power, Turkey's international ranking was as follows: 2010-2011 had three universities in the first 500, 2011-2012 had five universities in the first 500, 2012-2013 had five universities in the first 500, 2013-2014 had four universities in the first 500 in the first 500 years. So the result of all these central interventions in higher education is that the capacity of Turkish universities to accept themselves as a university in the international sphere has been steadily declined. And with the latest intervention, there will be nothing at all except that the Justice and Development Party is basically upgraded to the role of the people they love. This is not a university, nor is it a science, nor is it possible to change; it is only possible to collapse.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0198par0028	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the second sentence of Article 11 (a) of Article 2547 (a), which has been replaced by Article 519 (a) Article 519 (a) in the form of paragraph 3 (a), be replaced in the form of Article 3 (a), Article 3 (3) and Article 2547 (2547), and the second paragraph (a) of the paragraph. Gaye Beslier Mustafa Akadın Sibel Özdemir Atila Sertel Ömer Fethi Gürer Mustafa Ali Balbay The board of directors consists of thirteen members, including the chairman of the Interuniversity Board and three members of the field of science-engineering, health, social sciences and fine arts. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0199par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0198par0043	Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu will speak on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Gaytancioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0200par0046	Mr. President, valuable MPs, universities are a place of free thought, ideas, debate. We're talking about a very universal institution. But what are we discussing? How can we improve these institutions, how can we discuss freer thinking, we're not talking about it, let's remove the title of assistant professor. Instead, let's bring up the title of doctor professor... well, there's a lot of vocational institutes. In these universities of applied sciences, there are some who have a PhD and have a staff professorship. He's a teacher, a grad student, a PhD, and they're doctors. Do we give them that title? No. We're just assistant professors at universities, and we're calling those who've been waiting for years a doctor's professor. Why are we going to something like this? Because the only man told you to change it. As he said, change it to you, there is no such title. He said, "You don't like it." This is all wrong. So if there was a free thought, there would be an argument. Colleges made decisions between themselves. What kind of title should he be given? It has to be universal. According to this, the Inter-United Assembly, which is mentioned on its own, would discuss it seriously, would have given that title anyway. Now, there's been a July 15th in this country. A lot of professors have been suspended. And do they have PhDs, graduate studies? What will happen to those who still serve with titles given to them? Or they're not doing the job, they're using the title, and that's something to consider. You started college with 81, but opening so many colleges is the answer? Have you been able to rig these universities, have you reached enough technological levels? I mean, do they have libraries, are they able to scan electronic books, access the literature of a lot of universities or foreign universities, do they have enough physical spaces? So is opening these universities a solution, or do we need to install them? So my question to you is, is it a number or a quality? And colleges should be free. I mean, there's got to be places where there's an argument against every thought. One man's regime came in this country, you've silenced so many universities, even the teachers at law school couldn't resist this constitutional amendment, they couldn't even express an opinion. So there's no free thought. The economy is extremely important. Look, the economy doesn't grow in Turkey. Turkey is giving the highest current deficit in its history. If there's no economic growth... which, in our country, there's an apparent growth, but this virtual growth, it's not really happening. Why? Young people who graduated from many universities are depressed. You're opening an education school, teachers are unemployed. Working teachers take oral exams, that's how they become teachers. They can't even express their opinion, they can't speak. Why? If I say something wrong, I will not be appointed. You make the teacher contract, you make him pay. This is all wrong. We open a lot of agricultural schools, agricultural engineers out of work. We open a lot of business schools, Turkey doesn't build new businesses, the economy doesn't grow. Who's gonna run those businesses? The business that comes out of there will lead the graduates. Who's gonna do the math there? Industrial engineers will do the math, economists will do the math. Who will provide for his machine? Machine engineers, machine technicians will draw. But since we can't expand the economy, what do we do? We're opening colleges, we've got a lot of college unemployed, we've got a lot of college unemployed. You're still going to argue about what's going to happen here, but as an academic, you're not going to solve the real problems of universities. For once, free thinking should be in universities, a professor should be able to give you his opinion, even if it's against you, so he should not be a victim in any way. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0201par0052	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second paragraph of Section 519 of Law Proposal 519, the Executive Board consists of a total of thirteen members, including three members from the field of science, health and social sciences and a member from the field of fine arts, and we propose that the sentence be replaced in the form of a total of eleven members. Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzak Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Ekmeleddin Mehmet İhsanoğlu Erkan Haberal Mevlüt Karakaya Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0202par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0201par0065	Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0203par0068	Mr. President, we don't agree that there is no majority of the Commission. We don't agree with it. You know that it's a common practice and it's more Parliamentary.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0201par0069	You should have told the Commission.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0203par0070	For after this.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0201par0071	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0204par0073	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on the proposal we made regarding Article 3 of the Law Proposal to change certain Laws and Laws. I salute your high council. In this proposal, esteemed lawmakers, the proposal of this law shall be issued with the release of a professor (proposal) of four years from the Armed Forces of General Staff, which is part of Article 11 (a) of Law number 2547 (e.g. So it's a proper application because a professor who will be elected by the National Defence University Rector and Senate by law will already be represented by the Inter-Unital Assembly. You also know that the existing law is based on the current situation by professor professors, who will be elected by the Inter-United Assembly, university rectors and the Senates of universities. When we look at it from this point of view, the creation of a new board of directors (b) that is going to be introduced is also a good approach, because when we look at the number of members of the Inter-United Assembly that we just told you about, it's about 370, which is that the work becomes very difficult if it is compared to the old one. For him, it is important to establish a board of directors in this sense to practice things and to make the execution healthier. However, in four areas regarding the establishment of this board, the seating of board members has been established; the chairman of the board is in science-engineering three, three, three in health, three in social spaces, one in fine arts. In the amendment proposal we've submitted, let's make it equal, and let's say the fine arts are raised to three, and the total number of board members is 13. This offer, of course, will be well accepted. If that doesn't happen, then it's also a fact that the number in social sciences is few, that the number can be increased and raised to five, with 13 board members, but it can also be suggested that the field of social sciences be raised to five. It's important for you to know that the fields here are given as science-engineering, social sciences, health sciences and fine arts. Although this rating does not respond to our statistical classifications, I would also like to point out. We now have about 7,200,000 undergrads, PhDs, high school students. Four million, 200,000, about 62.5 percent of it is in the field of social sciences. The number of teachers is parallel to this. Therefore, it would be a healthier and more accurate approach for social sciences to be accepted by this change, given the scope of their work and the task of the Inter-United Council as a whole. I don't want to go through too much of this in the past. Dear lawmakers, look, I'm telling you, there's no response here in the statistics of the NGO. There's a classification of lecturers in 11 areas. What is written on the label, which corresponds to the rating of 9,000 of these, is not defined in the area, the area of 9,000 professors, and the area of the professors. At least it can be called discipline by passing it on, at least it can be used to classify the other one. Ben, there's more to be said here about these matters, but I salute your grand delegation again with the hope that this offer will be accepted.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0205par0079	Thank you, Mr. Karakaya. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in the 4th article, which I shall act according to the order of violation of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the 519th Article of the Law Proposal, which is held in the 519th amendment of the doctor's terms to the professor of Asia (a) joke, "Atama is performed by the rector for the most four years. At the end of each appointment, the mission ends on its own. Those whose term of office expires may be reassigned by the rector in accordance with the views of their statement. The lecturers on this staff can continue their duties until they are appointed as professors. We propose and recommend that the expression be added to the minimum criteria set by the IEC to be established before the statement (objective and manageable) in the (c) joke. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Nihat Akdoğan İbrahim Ayhan Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Sibel Yiğitalp Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0206par0094	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0205par0095	Mr. Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0207par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of my party and group, I have made a commitment to Article 519, Article 4 of the Law Proposal. I salute you and the public. Before I begin my remarks, I would like to remind everyone of the 21st February World Mother tongue Day, the basic right and freedom of the native language, all the forbidden and infuriating understandings. Dear lawmakers, the main reasons for education problems in Turkey include more and more marketing of practices and education that the ruling party has carried out by saying, "I am the one who prioritizes centrist, supporting staffing." In particular, intervening in university-based values by the SEC, the attempt by the political government to design all universities as an excuse for the State of Emergency makes almost every academic outside the AKP line feel under a lot of pressure and insecureness. For the purpose of moving universities to world standards, the government, which should be looking for ways of a more qualified education, has been looking for ways to increase control in universities, to establish a culture of biat. The universities, which should be free and autonomous, have unfortunately become a branch of the central administration. The entire area of education, including universities, should be stopped from being the domain of populist political rhetoric and related practices. In the ultimate part of education, it will be a political field, and for that, it will be the biggest investment in the future of this country to be transformed into a place where the main ones of education can have power. Otherwise, when you try to impose your own ideology by force and oppression, you'll be ruining the lives and future of future generations. The only way to integrate with the world in technology, science and art, a generation that can compete with the nations of the world, can be achieved by creating a free and democratic environment, free of oppressive mentality. Dear lawmakers, the 4th article is also concerned about applying doctor's teaching to replace assistant professorship. Although the basis of the proposal has been stated that the assistant professorship has been removed, it is evident that its status has not been lifted and that only one name has been changed. When other examples of teaching membership are examined, the binary system often encounters the professor, associate professor or associate lecturer or professor in the trilateral system, associate professor or associate lecturer, assoliate professor hierarchy. The academic construction of professors, professors, assistant professors, educators and researchers in Turkey is similar to the United States, Britain, the Netherlands and Germany. Turkey has a three-way career system for teaching, but legislation allows it to take the post-doctorate post-doctoral position. In this sense, there is a flexible structure, but in practice, the three structures operate. The assistant professorship has a contract of employment status and an unsecured job status and is part of the system as a transitional step, while professorship and professorship have permanent staff and guaranteed employment status. A permanent and guaranteed employment status can be transferred into a binary system within a less hierarchical structure. However, this proposal shows that the three hierarchical structure, which includes unsecured contractual employment in its first step, has been preserved. Why is such an arrangement needed if there will be no changes in academic construction of teaching membership? Is the reason for the arrangement simply to correct a perception problem, as explained by the motive of the proposal? Any arrangement that enhances the influence of the NGO is a threat to institutional autonomy in universities. In contrast, the political influence of this process will be considered and will set the stage for a more centralized direction. It's not the cafeteria that matters, it's the quality we need to improve.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0208par0105	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0207par0106	Thirty years ago -- I'm so proud of being a senior -- the world's top 100 universities -- the Middle East Technical University has only been able to get into the top 500 universities in recent years, unfortunately. Unfortunately, we can no longer enter even the first 500 in the final statement, as Mr. Furkcü, the speaker before me, mentioned. This shows us clearly how the quality of education has fallen. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0208par0109	Thank you, Mr. Bagpipe. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of (d) bendi to Article 4 of the proposed proposal. Zühal Topcu Kamil Aydın Baki Lightning Spiritual Ersoy Ahmet Selim Yurdakul Mevlüt Karakaya (d) As a result of extensive security investigations into institutions that have been established under the teaching member placement programme (SYP) and the staff status is not converted into Article 33/a of Law 2547, and have successfully completed their doctorates under this programme and have been cut off in the process, as part of 33/a, no terrorist organisation or illegal structure will need to be reassigned, provided there is no longer any involvement. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0209par0122	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0208par0123	Mr Ahmet Selim Yurdakul will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0210par0126	Mr. President, I have been promised by my group, the National Movement Party, on Article 4 of the amendments to the Higher Education Law. Before I begin my speech, I ask God's mercy on our two heroic children, one of whom is from Antalya and the other of our province of Adana, who are present today at Hakkari. May my Lord bless the Turkish nation. My condolences to all of us. Reverend citizens, as a professor, I think the academic community is one of the most affected institutions. Fortunately, as part of the fight against Strongman, we were largely freed from the so-called nationalist academics, who were wrongfully and by means of means to the academy. Instead of loyalty and integrity to the state, we need to restore the universities as soon as possible by Allah's permission to repair the damage done by these so-called academics to this community, to our country, and to our nation, to a mental patient across the ocean. I believe we can put the colleges on the level they deserve. What's important here is to build a fair system based on integrity and loyalty to the state. As a Turkish nation, we have finally destroyed the evil structure built by Å traitors. Now we must build an education worthy of the Turkish nation. The Academy needs a new breath, but at this point we have concerns. We must not allow unqualified staff to fill this void that will not improve the quality of university education. While it is possible to prevent staff abuse from changing Article 4, the staff must be prevented from putting additional conditions in the universities outside of objective and necessary scientific criteria. It's a positive development that academics who have completed their doctorate have the right to teach. However, it is also incumbent on us to give a warning about matters that need to be corrected here. For example, there's a huge problem with medical schools. Respected citizens, valued lawmakers; a medical school building was built in almost every province. Most of them are just buildings, medical schools, no teachers, no technological infrastructure. In fact, a few years ago, we made a statement at the Ministry of Health budget talks. There were medical schools at that time that didn't even have a library. Therefore, we would like to express our constructive criticism at the very beginning of this great House. College education doesn't mean building. In university education, quality should be determined, not numbers. So it's not quantity, it's quality. I'd like to ask you a question, and your answer to this question will lead us all to design higher education. Is it 100 mechanical engineers who have graduated without having a chance to see and understand modern technology, or 10 mechanical engineers who have graduated by studying all kinds of labs and information? Or is it an engineer who's met all kinds of materials in second grade, or can a brother who's never had a chance to meet modern and future technology even though he's graduated? The other thing is that we have young people following us on their screens right now. This is where I would like to address the problems of our brothers, who have rotted their elbows to join the academic community at our universities with the teaching program. OUR brothers and sisters are negatively affected by the fight against GERP. We've been through a lot of pain for the nation, but there's no need to throw away a mechanism like DOA. There's no point in upsetting these brothers and sisters to the government. I get dozens of e-mails every day. If any of them swear allegiance to a traitor beyond the ocean rather than to the state, let them pay for it, but let not the rights of our innocent, sinless brothers be wasted. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One last sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0211par0134	Here you are, Mr. Yurdakul.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0210par0135	Academic education is hard work. Don't let all this work go to waste. With instructions from between the two lips of the presidents, we must prevent them from facing an unjust practice. These young people have already done their part. Please don't make these brothers angry with their lives by setting new terms. General Assembly, I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0211par0138	Thank you, Mr. Yurdakul. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the statement taken by the rector of Atama for at least four years is changed by the chancellor for at least four years. Gaye Beslier Mustafa Akadın Sibel Özdemir Atila Sertel Ömer Fethi Gürer Mustafa Ali Balbay Ceyhun İrgil Kamil Okyay Bind Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0212par0152	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0211par0153	Minister Kamil Okyay Sindır will be speaking on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lander.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0213par0156	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 4 of the law proposal, which is known as the removal of the assistant professorial staff in 519 rows. I salute you all. Dear friends, I regret to inform you that I am speaking in front of you right now, in the state of war, the scourge of terror has not only crossed the border, but has crossed the border; the quality of politics is high, innovative, advanced technological products -- which divides society, subsistence language in the history of the republic; the economy, unemployment, poverty issues, and us, by producing and sustainability -- but in this period when we're in a state of war -- in which we've deceived ourselves with a temporary growth, we need not only to be able to create, to create, incrementate, to produce, to create, to produce, to produce, to produce, to produce, to produce, to produce, to produce, to the extent, to the extent, to the extent of what we need, to raise, to what we need, to raise, to the extent, to the extent of the high level, to what we need of the high level, to what is, to what we need, to raise, to what we need of the majority of the majority of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter, to be, to be, to what is, to be, to be, to be. Look, what did he say, Mr. Erdogan? For God's sake, what's with the assistant professor thing? Take a look at this. Tell me how many places there are in the world, and I don't see much of it. Someone did this to keep someone busy. We need teachers. These assistant professors aren't teachers, they were created to keep people busy. There will be no more assistant professorship after the doctorate. The expression belongs to him again. I also know that this is a hoax. The assistant professorship is just a political decision... we will remove the title from the window and ensure that the doctorate will be transferred directly from the doctorate to the professorship. For one thing, assistant professors are after doctorates, but there was no need to be assistant professors before professorship, you could pass direct examinations from PhD to professorship, your work and the oral exam behind it. So what they say is, when you look at the world literature, when you look at the world universities, you look at professors, professors, and assistants, there's a lineup of professors in some places, and there's a lineup of professors who show themselves in different names. Now, dear friends, the change that has been brought to us is nothing more than a change of name, just by calling a doctor, a professor, a change of staff, or a change of staff, or even the politicalisation of staff, or even viceroys, and an arrangement that will pave the way for a position that will lead to the president and the dean's culture of pledges. Look, dear friends, is this what we're going to talk about in college? Are these the main problems of colleges, academia, RD, the high-tech production I just mentioned in Turkey, the high-profile production issue, the solution issues? Look, dear friends, this is my OECD report. In 2016, the AR-GE is 0.94, Turkey is 33 degrees among OECD member states, and we transfer 1/3 of the OECD average from non-national to R-Ge, a ratio of one-third. Again, the situation of the universities in Turkey is that one of the thousand patents produced in the OECD member states, Turkey in the 29th place as well as the number of patents -- yes, pay attention -- one of the thousand patents produced in the OECD member countries is coming out of Turkey alone.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0214par0165	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0213par0166	That's what colleges are coming to, the spending of R&D, not by removing the assistant professor staff from the dead land, not by changing its name -- by changing its name, by changing its name -- by changing its name -- a palatial, temporary culture by all of us, by giving up hope of scientific autonomy over the appointed rectors, who are no longer interested in research, development, production of projects. Dear friends, my last word, I say it's a shame, it's a sin. It's a shame about this country, it's a shame about universities, it's a shame about Turkey's future. Let's not kid ourselves. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0215par0170	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 5 that I'm going to process in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 519th amendment of the Law Proposal, which is currently in session, shall be taken out of the text of the article. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir İbrahim Ayhan Nihat Akdoğan Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Sibel Yiğitalp Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0216par0185	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0215par0186	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0217par0187	He's changed, sir.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0218par0188	We did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0215par0189	Well, Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0218par0192	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're back with a new bill proposal, a new arrangement, a new proposal that's reflected and passed on to us like it's a positive thing again. The 5th and 6th articles of the proposal are repealing the 25th article that regulates the appointment of professorship of the law. In fact, when you look at the whole bill, valuable lawmakers, we can talk about an offer where the academy is brought closer to the culture of beer, when the law should be lifted, when it should be reduced, when it should be reduced, where its powers are actually increased, where scientific education, the place of the academy, the place of free education and the place of thought, and its executives are literally pushed back from this liberal understanding. The oral examination has been lifted, which means that we can actually say that the standards of qualifications and quantity are one step behind. Imagine that at the point when the foreign language rating is reduced from 65 to 55, the fact that both its own publications and foreign publications are so important at the point of pursuit, that such a universal point is to fall back, to remove the oral test, to transfer the powers of the Inter-university Council to the WHO, where it is actually created in universities, and that the work of the AKP's power is carried out. So many scientists have been expelled from their post, and we think that while the real need for universities is to provide a democratic, free scientific environment, we can't overcome the problems of scientists, understand them, with laws that are really behind the universal rules and behind the world. Imagine that Taşkın Aktaş 2015 was elected as our deputy in Ardahan, Ardahan, on June 7th. He was arrested yesterday. He became a doctor, became a doctor, became a member of parliament, and was arrested for the use of freedom of expression at the university. Ayla Akat Akat, former MP of Hakeza, is in the same file. Ardahan was arrested yesterday for using freedom of expression. Yesterday in Istanbul, many of the members of the HDK -- before us -- had expressed their names, had mentioned their names -- many people, especially Onur Hamzaoglu -- are watching us now in prisons, perhaps at this moment. So imagine that the people of this country, the young people who built this country's future, are building their futures in colleges where they've gone to great lengths, with great effort, with great cost, and so much concern that they will not be able to find a place for themselves in this system that is so narrow, so narrowing, opening the way for staffing. He doesn't really trust this bill and any of it that you don't take down, that you're going to get kicked out of that university on what day, or that he can't be assigned anywhere, because of this State of Emergency that you don't put up with, that you don't put up with. Today is February 21st World Main Language Day. I want to say once again that the language of the world and the Kurdish language of the whole world must be recognized as an official language in this country by expressing all the challenges it faces now, saying that all languages of the world, all peoples, have a universal value, and at this point I want to say again that the Kurdish language should be recognized as an official language in this country, and that it should take its place in the Constitution and the laws. The mother tongue is not just talking; you're actually developing your relationship with nature, with the system, with ecology, with everything through the mother tongue. This is a sociological, pedagogic, political problem. On this basis, I say the measures must be taken immediately for all languages in Turkey and in the world that are perhaps facing extinction right now. A separate measure for the Welsh language has been taken in its own country. For example, in addition to other languages, there's a different measure to prevent Galce's disappearance, a separate... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0219par0201	Please complete, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0218par0202	A separate budget has been prepared for the destruction of Welsh and for its better development, a separate measure has been taken in this sense in schools, in academys and everywhere. Because after a disadvantaged position, after many years of struggle, it has reached the point of becoming an official language. On this basis, I would like to say once again that the mother tongue is not only the language or the language of the native language, but the real existence of a human being. Based on my own name, I don't have the time to tell every person I've met what my own name means and to say it's Kurdish and to say that people's responses to this point, not people's surprises, maybe I don't have the time to share them with you. But it is incumbent on this House to really eliminate the disadvantaged situation at this point by recognizing the wealth of every language. On this basis, I too celebrate Earth's Mother Language Day. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0220par0207	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and request that "the subtitled five hundred and five hundred and twenty-seven" of Article 24 (a), which has been replaced with the 519th article of the Law Proposal (D) joke, which is replaced by the 519th Amendment, be replaced in the following form, (c) joke, and be removed from the proposal text of the oral test (d). Mustafa Akadın Mazlum Nurlu Birol Erdem Sibel Özdemir Kamil Okyay Bind The candidates who have been decided by the Inter-university Committee to have sufficient literature and study are entitled to take the oral examination of the inter-unive council. Candidates who have succeeded in the oral exam are named Assoc.ent. People who receive the position of professors are fully entitled to the rights of professorship without the need for a staff. When this clause is in effect, those who have applied to the Inter-United Board of Directors will be subject to the legislation of those who have not completed their application, and those who have succeeded in publishing the application of the professor's candidates who have been successful in the process will be subject to its application. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0221par0220	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0220par0221	Mr Mustafa Akadın will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0222par0224	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of my group to give you an opinion on the 5th Amendment. First of all, when you look at this law as a whole, it contains the quality of disparaging of universities, and when you read it well, it comes out. Dear friends, in this article, we see the oral phase of the professorship exam destroyed. If you look at world universities, it's not really the verbal stage, it's just the study of artifacts, it's decided on, but in civilized countries, these jurors are highly qualified judges. I mean, at least one of the jurors could be born with a very important name from foreign countries being passed on to that jury. Is oral examination necessary in Turkey? It is necessary because as chairman of the Inter-United Board, I have experienced that a scientific file comes before you, and you look at the works, and there are things that are really undisputable, and there are some quality articles, but you're looking at a professor in Samsun -- for example -- there are a lot of names in the article, one from Erzurum, the other from Çukurova, and the other from Kütahya. You're suspicious of scientific fraud. And then when you take the oral exam, you see these guys, they have an F-type smell in this study. What do you think? So the guy from Samsun, he published it, and he put the names of his friends in it. And then we found that there's an F-type international magazine in medicine, and there's articles in these magazines. So, frankly, when scientific works are studied only over the case, the MPs do not reflect quality; they often reflect fraud in Turkey, scientifically. Who can solve this? When a five-person jury takes that island and interrogates its work, that fraud can appear immediately. So this is a very important clause in Turkey, and you're taking it away. Now, dear friends, I'm coming to another point as an example of inferiority. You reduce the foreign language score from 65 to 55, while I am less than 65. For a scientist to be able to watch international broadcasts, I think the score is at least 80 points. You're taking it down to 55. It also suggests that some fellow professors have gathered in universities, which are designed to open the way for them, to make them happy, and to be honest, friends should see them shopping. Dear friends, I'm turning the word to another point here. There are still many non-actional professors, for political reasons. I mean, they're friends who took the professorship exam, but they're assistant professors. I think we should take advantage of the opportunity and give these friends the rights, the rights, the law, the justice of the staff. I'd like to talk to you about something else. Although we did not participate in the views of 1,128 peace academics who were suspended from universities last year under the law, I applaud their freedom of opinion, conscience and expression, and I defend them. With a new decree, I'd like to express that they're back under the roof of the universities. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. Dear friends, in this opportunity, I would like to suggest to Mr. Secretary that, please, as you have done in your health department hospitals, do a survey of satisfaction for these 150,000 academics at Turkish universities, and see what the outcome is, but please don't put a name or a last name on the questionnaires, because they're afraid to write. Let's see what comes up, so is it going to be 75% satisfaction or not, like in the Ministry of Health hospitals? I don't believe in that 75 percent either. But today 150,000 academics at Turkish universities are depressed, unhappy friends and especially medical schools are in complete decline, and we've said it over and over again. We learned yesterday that the Finance Minister and the Ankara universities had a meeting of medical schools, and according to my information, the universities owe money to suppliers approaching 7 billion Turkish liras. It's not enough that these loans are structured, friends, they can't afford medical school hospitals. These debts need to be wiped out, these are reasonable medical schools hospital damages caused by the unjust destruction of medical schools' services. Believe me, medical school hospitals are currently in a position to do minimally scientific health care. May I have a moment, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0223par0236	I'll give you an extra minute, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0222par0237	I took advantage of the opportunity and stuck it in the middle. In particular, medical schools have very serious staff problems. Look, according to my information today, assistant staffs in educational research hospitals have almost tripled in medical school, where medical school is literally in a strait. Now, dear lawmakers, I have one more suggestion before I make a commitment. Academic titles only apply under the university's roof in the world, and what's important is being a doctorate. Come, I propose again, I propose on commissions, forbid academic titles from being used outside Turkish universities, dear friends. And my final question to our Minister of National Education is what happened to this FATIH Project, Mr. Secretary, and I expect that. Tell them the FATIH Project collapsed, when it's over, explain the public damage, especially how many billion dollars has been lost on these tablet computers, the Turkish public, and let's find out, and then we'll move on. Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0224par0243	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the addition of the (f) joke to be added after Article 5 of the main Law Proposal (2/2099) and Article 24 (e) which has been replaced by Article 2547 (e) joke. Zuhal Topcu Mustafa Mit Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzak Spiritual Ersoy Baking Lightning At the same time, however, the inter-university council is named a professor for those who have applied for a professorship and who have succeeded in studying the work. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. The government...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0225par0256	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0224par0257	Ankara MP Mustafa Mit will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Mit.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0226par0260	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the 5th Article of the Law Proposal to change certain Laws and Legislatures in accordance with the 519. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, universities are institutions where universal knowledge and science are produced and shared and served in the service of humanity. On the agenda of the General Assembly, the law proposal brings new definitions for academic titles and will be referred to as a palliative effort, far from solving university problems. Higher education is, in fact, Turkey's most important or even first issue. Nurettin Gunny Hodja, the cause and source of the depressions that our nation has been suffering for three centuries must be sought in the field of culture and prosperity. The letters have been opened, but the love of knowledge has not been instilled and its knowledge is not believed. It states that Turkey's priority problem is financial. In addition, 50 years ago, Hilmi Ziya Country Hoxha has made it very clear that one of the great dangers facing less developed countries will be the inevitable result of intellectual unemployment. The aim of higher education is not to increase the number of graduates at all costs. First of all, there must be a philosophy of above-politic education in accordance with our historical experience and social structure, in accordance with the very purpose of science. In this sense, education and teaching should be based on the continuing development of history and veracity, based on a dialectic activity between humans and the universe, which is a dynamic development of individuals. In line with the diversity of reality, education and education should aim to raise many types of people who will respond to the differentiation of work and thinking life. The basic problem with this is that the student and the teacher, along with the decision makers in the state mechanism, must also have a scientific mindset. In the early 70s, Alparslan Turkesh, our Prime Minister, whom we have blessed with all sorts of prejudicial decrees, will be put aside. As we study each event, we will follow the method of learning based on the mentality of science. It has made the philosophy of knowledge a political target in education and teaching. Despite all shortcomings and flaws, universities represent institutions of learning and learning. For this reason, universities come to mind when they are called ilmiles and ilmical institutions. Today's civilization is represented by universities, not by factories, but by universities. The real backwardness is the lack of understanding. In the 60s, Mümtaz Turhan Hoxha points to the importance of the university and the problems of the university that continue today as well. Another important thinker, Necmettin Hacieminoglu, in the early 70s, the issue of university should be dealt with in a way, not in a way. It has to be handled in terms of both the philosophy of the institution and the service of national goals and the functioning of them, and it has to be arranged in the best way to address the need for housing. It represents the university problem and its solutions. Many other scholars, thinkers, have made similar assessments, proposed solutions. Anyone with a pen and a say in this matter agrees that he owes the country's development to higher education institutions and high-school intellectuals. We're dealing with the same problems as our universities today 50 years ago. He says that a real reform on this issue, which has been discussed over the years, has now become inevitable, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0267	Thank you, Mr. Mit. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes:
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0228par0270	We refuse. Can you count it?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0271	Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0228par0272	Mayor, look, how many of us are there? Look, how many of us are there?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0229par0273	Can you count it, please?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0274	It just came out. There's a motion on the 6th article, I'm having it read...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0229par0277	Mr. President, can you count it? Are you a scribe? Ask the scribes.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0278	Congressmans, I passed that motion.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0229par0279	No, that's not true! We want a score.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0280	There's a motion in Article 6 that I'm having read...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0229par0282	What if something like this happens? How biased you are. Where's the democracy? Just count it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0283	Read the motion, please...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0230par0284	Count it. Mr. President, how do you count? Twenty-four hundred
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0231par0285	Mr. President, act objectively.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0286	Read the motion, I've done the procedure. If you're not going to read it, I'd like another clerk, or give it to me, and I'll read it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0232par0287	Mr. President, there's a lot of those who don't agree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0233par0288	Mr. President, do what he says.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0289	Give it to me... I've passed, I can't go back now. Will you give it to me? Read it or I'll read it, Mr. Altaca.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0233par0291	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0292	Congressmans, no problem, we're moving on. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and supply to change the 6th article of the main Law Proposal (2/2099) in the following way. Zühal Topci Kamil Aydın Saffet Sandzaker Sea Depboy Bakem Lightning Spiritual Ersoy Articles 25 and 32 of Higher Education Law No. 2547, dated 6-4/11/1981, have been lifted from effect. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0234par0304	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0227par0305	Aydın MP Deniz Depboylu will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Depboy.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0235par0308	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our nationalist Action Party group on Article 6 of Law 519. I salute the Holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Before I begin my words, I ask God's mercy on our two fallen soldiers and all our martyrs today. And to our wounded soldiers and veterans, I wish you a speedy recovery. May my Lord help and protect our army. Dear lawmakers, the law we're discussing is about universities, but I'd like to point out our views by referring to a slightly different level of education. First, we have learned today that guidance certificate courses that will allow us to work in private schools have been cancelled in the 2018 service course opened by the Ministry of National Education Special Teaching General Directorate. And for that, we thank our Minister of National Education for his sensitivity. Because even though these courses have been shown as expert inadequacies, we also know that in June 2018, when we think of new PDRs and psychologists as graduating, we will have friends who are looking for jobs, psychologists and PDR graduates. We don't think it's right to open doors to other areas with courses when you're looking for so many specialists. However, there's one thing I'd like to mention in particular, there's no guidance counselor norm staff in kindergartens. Why am I saying this? I'm referring to child abuse. Unfortunately, when child abuse is investigated, statistics show that these children are between 2 and 10 years of age at the most, and because they have no opportunity to ask for help from outside, they need to be examined with professional eyes, to be treated with an opinion, and to be helped by available experts. Unfortunately, not having a guidance counselor in kindergarten is a major flaw. The absence of guidance courses in elementary schools is another flaw, because early in primary school guidance hours, children were allowed to acquire skills to cope with stress, anger management, relationships, communication, empathy, and, along with it, to strengthen their personal equipment, to protect their mental health. Unfortunately, our elementary school children have been deprived of them. Let's hope this problem is fixed. There's a memo published about more Norm guidance counselors in different schools. I served in different schools at the Ministry of National Education for 20 years as a guidance counselor and went to other schools with these kinds of assignments. Based on my experience here, it's very difficult for us to achieve our goals in a way that solves problems. Why? Especially considering child abuse -- which is the most PDR and psychology graduates, the school counselors -- can't trust a different face he's seen in school for two days. He can't go to him and say, "This is what he did to me. If there's a problem with incest, my father does this to me. He doesn't have the courage to say it. However, we think it would be much more appropriate for a school to be appointed as guidance counselors, as each school needs, because it is based on empathy and communication with children there, and because such interaction is so difficult to communicate with a two-day assignment a week. Because there are so many graduates waiting for the staff. Again, we had suggestions on the latest regulation. Hopefully, if that happens, if it's resolved, it'll make us happy. We've heard about it, I hope it's true. We've also learned that the courses open for medical secretary are cancelled, which is very satisfactory. Because it's really unfair for someone who's worked so hard in a field, who's a college student, to replace someone who's been trained at a certain hour for, like, a low, 350 lira fee. Hopefully, these problems will be an example of how similar practices can be avoided. Again, we have a lot of literature and history teachers waiting for employment. We hope they'll have a staff, too, because these brothers and sisters are eager to become teachers and reach out to the children, which is what they're eager to do. Also, I'd like to point out that while our Minister is here, we have a family counselling certificate program problem. There's an organization that's been looking for me in particular recently, and I'd like to express to you a conversation between us and a private organization and this private organization. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0236par0319	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0235par0320	Thank you. I was called by chance, I suppose, because of my profession. The guy who called didn't know I was acting. He said: "We're opening a Family Advice Certificate Program. Would you like to join us? Where is this? A private organization in Ankara, etcetera, etcetera. We're giving you a certificate approved by the Ministry of National Education. I said, "Well, who's giving, who's teaching?" Falanca gave me the name of a psychologist friend. I said, "Is this the person who attends all the classes? " Yes, he did. I said, "Who gives you supervisions?" Again, he gave it to a friend. So one person attends all classes, gives supervisions, claims to have received approval from the Ministry of National Education. And I was so curious, I opened that friend's name and I looked it up on the Internet. Family counseling, marriage, couples therapy, they don't have any equipment for this friend, but unfortunately, they don't give proper training to friends who want to get a certificate by taking advantage of a gap, an opening. That's a big problem. Besides, it's actually a master's degree program, and it shouldn't be a certificate, but if there's a certificate, then it should be given by competent people. I'd like to remind you that this may have escaped your attention. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0237par0325	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 7th amendment of Law Proposal 519 be changed in the following manner. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir İbrahim Ayhan Sibel Yiğitalp Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Nihat Akdoğan The title of Article 7 (2547) of Law No. 7 (2547) was removed from the scope of the article (a) and the jokes of the article (d) were removed in the form of more than five (b), (d) and (e). Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0238par0341	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0237par0342	Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irmez.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0239par0345	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 7 of the Law Proposal on the Amendment to Law and Law Order 519. Before entering the 7th article, today is February 21st, as you know, the World Mother Language Day. Language means much more than being a means of communication. Every language is a carrier of the history and culture of the language-speaking society. The individual's native language is an integral part of his identity, his personality, his emotional and mental development. Language rights are as sacred as the right to live. Therefore, no one has the right to ban another's language. It is known of all international human rights institutions, which have been developed in the opposite direction, including the most fundamental human rights violations. I hereby celebrate the Earth's Mother Language Day of all rights, with a world free of all native languages. Dear lawmakers have been driven by the aim of marketing, centralisation, staffing, as the 16-year-old AKP's ruling has been removed from the understanding of scientific, creative, free education in all policies towards universities. This has increased the intensity of interventions in higher education with the State of Emergency (KHK) and the schools have been evacuated and the academy has become increasingly inefficient. With its illegality, academics' status has also been changed, their fear of dismissal has gone to extremes, their pressure on academic studies and auto-accession peaked. These interventions led to a complete withdrawal from the scientific and academic university environment, and universities were transformed into institutions that pledged political power. With this offer, the criteria for academic appointment and promotion are being reorganised. Centrality is being further institutionalized. This proposal was made by direct instructions from the palace following the statement of AKP President Erdoğan, who, for God's sake, said to remove this assistant professorship? The arrangement has not been conducted publicly and transparently, unfortunately. The opinions and suggestions of many institutions with contacts have not been received. Therefore, academic work environment must be saved from hierarchical construction. Production together should be the basis instead of a top-notch relationship. Academic titles should not be transformed into hierarchical indicators. It shouldn't be a commercial source of influence. The job security must be guaranteed. This proposal, brought by the AKP's government, is clearly interfering with the autonomous structure of universities. In this way, universities are tried to be removed from being educational institutions and become institutions where AKP's own political staff is employed. The policies declaring war against science, art, philosophy, free and critical thinking must be abandoned. Therefore, in order for qualified education, critical thinking and creative research to be carried out, the existing SEC Law must first be changed and set up with democratic participation and public control, free of standard and external controls. These regulations should be evaluated by students of the academic community and all their employees and democratic boards. In addition, university supervision should be supported by public supervision without damaging scientific freedom and institutional autonomy. In addition, in this current structure, we once again state that the mandate of researchers regarding the 7th article must be increased from three to five years. The immediate liberation of universities is essential for the production of qualified information. Therefore, wrongly and unlawfully discharged scientists must be extradited to their duties immediately. Academic freedoms should be guaranteed objectively and should end their political intervention in institutionalised universities such as the NGO, dating from September 12th. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0240par0354	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 8 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 8 of the Law Proposal 519 be removed from the proposal text. Gaye Beslier Mustafa Akadın Sibel Özdemir Atila Sertel Mustafa Ali Balbay Ceyhun İrgil Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0241par0367	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0240par0368	Mr. Ceyhun İrgil will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0242par0371	Mr. President, we don't think we have any special proposals as our party in the provision of Article 8 of the law, which is known as the law of assistant professorship and professorship in public. I, in general, would like to give you some general anecdotes and notes on the law as a speaker who had made a commitment for the first time in the law, and as a member of the Commission, in terms of further talks. While the legislation is discussed in the Commission, there is a criticism that you often make: the People's Party of the Republic never has a proposal and opposes everything and brings no suggestions." he said: "O my people! The commission has submitted a motion of up to 30 put forward by our members of the Commission, and many of them have not been approved by you. One of them, particularly about the SOP, was said by the speakers before me, that when the time comes, my friends will explain it in detail on the matter, but the motion for the DOA was rejected by the AKP's unanimous vote. Later, we offered not to limit the time of professorship applications, but to do so all year long, which was voted out by the AKP. We proposed a rating system for the motivation and control of professors and professors, which was unanimously rejected by the AKP. Then we asked for the collection of all literature in the national archives and the creation of a national archive thesis and broadcast system. National thesis section accepted, broadcasts not accepted. We talked about the unconditional appointment of the professors of the assistant professorship staff, the removal of this injustice, because of the fact that these people were professors in assistant professorship staffs, though they were entitled to their rights and a number of paychecks. It's an opportunity to return these people's rights. This was not accepted by the AKP. We said, "Let there be no personal ads for anyone." We said, "There will be no place for him here, and there will be no talk." In college ads, there are special ads for one person in the world, so don't do that, it's not moral. The problem in college isn't academic, it's ethical, it's moral. Let's put a limitation on the person's personal ad, and we'll come up with a formula. They said there's no need, because our universities don't do such things, there's no such thing. I can show you hundreds of examples. We've asked for sanctions and numbers on this, what's the NGO doing about it? We haven't heard back from who he's punished, who he's sanctioned, and we haven't heard back yet. From our point of view, the most troubling part of this offer was, of course, that the removal of the professorial oral was morally controversial and there were many problems. I find it to be positive for myself, but some of our members of the Commission, as well as our friends from the EC PARTI, the AKP, and many of our friends from the AKP, are against it. They're right, they're right, but there's one thing: we want to question this, that's important, I've done this before, I've shared it with the public, I've said it there. We need a system that questions the scientific field of science, oversees the field of science, oversees its competence in art, its competence in practice. This could be a central exam, something else. But it's a good thing that the oral exam, which is intended to satisfy people's egos and is very subjective and very immoral, has recently been removed from the oral exam, which we face with very biased and proactive examples. In the meantime, the fact that the postings have been placed on the heads of the rectors is one of the major gaps in this offer. And we certainly object to that, and somehow we want these appointments to be objectively benchmarked and manageable. So a person should be able to go to court when he's beaten or when he's in trouble. Therefore, the principle of controlability must be set. Other than that, one of the important or additional items we brought in was student amnesty. The student pardon is a bleeding wound in this country. Everyone agrees with us. We're sitting outside the commission, everyone says you're right. But we're coming, no one's raising a hand in student forgiveness. As a matter of fact, the AKP was rejected by a unanimous vote. From here, I'm telling all the parents and students who are looking for student forgiveness. Guys, where are these people going? They can't read anywhere else. There's no other condition but to go to another country. So what we're saying is, students from other countries, people from our own country have to go elsewhere to complete their studies and schools. I've read some very painful examples, bitter e-mails on the commission. And yet, as a human being, they conscientiously agreed, but they didn't vote. One of the most important problems that is left open in this law, I've just asked the Minister, and the Minister has confirmed it, but once again, for the record, I'm stressing that he's passed the professorship exam, he's passed the momentum, he's passed his work, but he's passed his work, but he's already passed it. All right, so we're done here.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0243par0381	Complete, Mr. Irgil, one minute.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0242par0382	This is technically a very important problem; it must be confirmed by the Ministry and the SEC here over and over again. Now friends are asking: there are those who enter with the 2016 criteria, there are those who apply with the criteria before 2016. Mr. Secretary just responded, but they're still asking about Twitter and text. We say that if you're left with the word before or after 2016, if you've gone through the work, everyone gets the title of "documental" according to this law. Look, he's not assigned to the cast, but he gets the title. Is that correct, Minister?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0244par0383	That's right.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0242par0384	The minister confirms it, I'll make a point here. He just told me, but still, my friends weren't so sure. So the real problem here is that the professor's appointment now -- I mean, he's a professor of people, but he has to start somewhere, if he's not going to work in the private sector -- is that he's left to the rectors. Here's the bride, let's make this objective. Otherwise, we won't be able to stop the wrong-sided and ally assignments. That's why I expect your attention, your attention, and your sensitivity. And I want to thank your entire committee. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0245par0387	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0246par0389	Mr. President, I'd like to add something.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0247par0390	According to Article 60...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0245par0391	Here you go, Mr. Topcu. Are you going to explain your position?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0248par0393	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0245par0394	Just a minute, please.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0248par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 5 of the Law Proposal, we had a motion to add a (f) joke. Here, however, at the time of this article's execution, we had a motion to grant a professorship to those who applied for inter-university professorship and were successful in the study of art. This motion was denied. Now there's a contradiction. Now, with Ceyhun Bey's statement, our motion, rejected in Article 5... says Ceyhun Bey: "Now I've asked Minister Bey and that's exactly what this is." Well, then, we need to be clear about this, about this.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0249par0400	Yeah, it needs to be cleared up.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0250par0401	Here you go, Mr. Irgil, and I'll give you my word on your position. If there's a contradiction like you said, then it can be corrected.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0249par0403	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Hodja is right. We've made a number of emphasises on the commission. Look, we're all doing something together, we're all agreeing here, no problem, and the Minister agrees. If you had just agreed to that matter that Mr. Private had insisted on, this opening would have been closed. The MHP motion was closing this gap in the law. So we have to hand it to him. Or if you'd like the Minister to make a private statement or not, I don't know, but if there's any possibility, if you'd like, let's file this motion into the record, to make it clear. I mean, that would be great. Believe me, it's good for the health of the law.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0250par0405	Okay, but right now there's no way I can process content.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0249par0406	No, the motion...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0251par0407	Let the Minister explain...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0250par0408	Let's make a promise to the Minister. Here you are, Mr. Secretary, just a minute from your position.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0252par0411	Mr. President, we read the joke of Article 24 (c) of Article 2547, which is organised by Article 5: The Interuniversity Council is titled as a professor of the island, which is determined to have sufficient literature and work. That's what we're saying. Look, it's very clear that the Interuniversity Board has the title of professorship to the island, which is decided to have sufficient literature and work. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0253par0412	But we say, until this substance passes........ I wonder if there's a...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0254par0413	In case it leads to misunderstanding...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0255par0414	Congressmans, this is a conflict with content, or it's a matter of order. If you two can talk about this later and make it clear to us, we'll do the procedure on him.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0254par0415	How is it that between us, this law...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0255par0416	At the moment, since it is the decision of the General Assembly, I do not have anything to do with it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0256par0417	Everything that's happened so far is a professor, if he's met the scientific broadcasting criteria.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0257par0418	Then, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0255par0419	Wait a minute, wait a minute... Come in, Mr. Business. Let's hear it for you. Mr. Secretary, I promise you, Mr. Special, I promise you, Mr. Master. Here you go, Mr. Business. Mr. President, respected lawmakers, we've discussed this with SEC officials, the law is very clear. After the law is passed, anyone who is in the oral exam phase will automatically receive the title of professorship because the oral exam has been lifted. Besides, there's no need to write that down. We didn't put it in because we didn't feel the need. Therefore, Mr. Secretary's statement is correct. That's why we reject this motion. There's no point in rewriting something that's already been accepted by the law, so we're removing the professorship exam, and from the moment this law is in effect, everyone who passes the term will receive the title of professorship. I'd like to present it to the General Assembly. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, do you have anything to add? Here you go.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0258par0430	They often teach lawyers: If there is no opening in the text of a law, then the statements on the commission and the statements on this law will be taken into consideration and the results of the lawmaker will be revealed. Our commissioner says it will. The government says it will. E, therefore, the General Assembly has an agreement in that direction. From now on, another comment would be against the lawmaker's will. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0259par0432	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0260par0433	Mr. Special, let's hear it.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0259par0435	Mr. President, the part of the job is true that Parliament is united in business reports when making a decision, and that's where to turn when there's a contradiction. But many things have passed through the reports, and once again, let's say that we care about the fact that there's no victimhood here and that the people who are watching this place carefully are happy, that we care about these explanations. But as the Republican People's Party, we don't find it principled that a test like this should be lifted without the pressure and interference of the universities, but the test will be lifted. Meanwhile, these explanations are important to those who expect it from here. But we, the Republican People's Party, are categorically opposed to the fact that the test is already being lifted. The universities must be cleared of political pressure. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0260par0437	Thank you. Mr. Master...
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0261par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we're actually talking about dealing with the confusion and for the record. Well, after Mr. President's testimony, maybe it wasn't necessary. Our motion was that there were people who had passed the work, who had not passed the oral stage, who had not received the title of professor. With this regulation now made in the law, both the President and the Minister of the Commission say they have already been given the title of professorship. Therefore, the rejection of our motion is not because it does not agree with its content, but because it has already been carried out.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0262par0444	To avoid unnecessary additions.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0263par0445	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0261par0446	So all the friends who wait like this get the title of professorship. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0263par0448	Thank you, Mr. Master. We're already on item eight. There are ways for any change in the content of the 5th article to be involved. We couldn't do that right now. Other times, in the coming hours, this could be fixed. But now it's clear that it's okay. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the 519th sentence of the 8th Article of the Law Proposal, which is currently held, "we propose and propose that the declaration be changed by 12 hours a week for more than 12 hours a week, "for more than six hours a week. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir İbrahim Ayhan Sibel Yiğitalp Diyet Dilan Taşdemir Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Nihat Akdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, President. Government?
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0264par0463	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit05spe0263par0464	I'm reading the reason: In the current case, the doctor gave 12 hours of lessons to research workers for a salary. Other than that, no additional classes or exams were paid. This arrangement to provide additional courses and examination fees for doctor researchers is welcomed by the teachers at this status. However, research missions are the faculty assigned to do departmental work, as well as the subject loads of courses. They also have to do research and broadcasts for academic advancement. Given all these responsibilities together, there seems to be a lot of work on researchers. This should basically reduce the number of hours of study hours they have to enter for wages in order to reduce the workload on researchers, give them more time for academic development. The proposal aims to reduce the number of courses that researchers enter on salary, increase the number of lessons they attend for a fee. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Members of parliament, there has been an objection and it has been noted in the General Assembly regarding the outcome of the vote of Article 5 of which we have just voted. I would first like to point out that I am behind this decision, but in order to avoid any hesitation, I am opening a discussion on the procedure of this procedure under the second joke of Article 13 of the Civil Code. Vocabulary? No. In that case, I submit to you the 5th article of the proposal: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article has been accepted. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-02-21sit06spe0263par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 519. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 517 and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is Thursday (February 22nd 2018) at 14 p.m. to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid you good night.
