ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law ratifying Order No. 2017-17 of 3 May 2017 establishing the Paris La Défense public institution (No. 481).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u2	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u3	Madam Chair, Mr Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, responsible for relations with Parliament, Mr Vice-Chair of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, on the occasion of the last stage of the examination of this text, to renew my thanks to all the Members of the House, the majority and the opposition, who have followed this bill very carefully. Mr. Rupin and Ms. Hennion supported the progress we have made, in particular on clarifying the scope of the new Paris La Défense facility. Ms. Le Grip and Mr. Schellenberger participated constructively in our discussions. The vigilance exercised by Mr. Little as to the balance of relations between the different communities within the institution allowed us to explain more precisely what our will as legislator was and what we felt were the conditions for the successful development of the territory of La Défense Seine Arche. By amending the bill to ratify the Order while preserving the great balance in the text, we have affirmed our confidence in the capacity of the communities that will tomorrow ensure the governance of the new institution to implement the cooperation necessary for any territorial project. We thus recognize the role and competence of local elected officials who do so much for spatial planning. We also show particular confidence in the elected representatives of the Hauts-de-Seine, who have made a strong contribution to the identity of this extremely dynamic territory, with its many students and companies whose development potential has greatly nourished the attractiveness of the capital, and which continues to be a major challenge for economic development in the years to come. We give the elected representatives of the department and communes of Courbevoie, Puteaux, Nanterre and La Garenne-Colombes, but also, and it is worth noting, to those of the City of Paris, the metropolis and the region, the possibility of defining, on the perimeter of the operations of national interest of La Défense and Seine Arche, a common future based on the modernization and opening of this territory. The aim is to create more links between communities, to animate joint projects and to restore its place to the first European business district on the international stage. Several recent projects are already taking part in this dynamic, like the U Arena and the Jardins de l'Arche. I hope that in the coming years they will be the beginnings of lasting collaboration between local actors for the benefit of their territory, while respecting their political position. We have seen a great deal, and much remains to be done for the inhabitants and the users. The hearings of the elected representatives of the affected communities and the regional prefect showed that everyone measured the challenges that remained. The reform that we are about to adopt definitively puts the elected representatives at the heart of the project and the ambition that we have for La Défense: it is an opportunity, but also, in several respects, a heavy responsibility. Let us be quite transparent: the difficulties associated with insufficient investment over the last few decades, particularly in maintaining the slab and the many infrastructures that serve it, are one of the main reasons for this reform. The communities commit themselves, under the Order, to finance the reduction to the standards that have become urgent, amounting to at least €360 million over ten years. Their ability to modernize and secure the historic district, to renovate its access and to open it in the surrounding territories is the main challenge; It will condition the assessment of this reform in the future. The responsibility of communities is therefore important, as is our confidence in them: they have everything to gain from it. However, this funding, which has been lacking for a long time, cannot justify everything or allow everything. I say it again in the gallery, as I said to all concerned and again to senators in the CMP: an accommodation project can succeed only in the consultation and the search for a form of consensus. A joint project is not built without taking into account the views of each of the actors involved in the management of the territory, especially in the context of an operation of national interest. If all elected officials are aware of this, they must now demonstrate their ability to form part of the dialogue. They will be accompanied in this process by the regional prefect, whose role it will be. We will ensure that the will of the legislator, as we have repeatedly pointed out, is respected. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We were able to reach a consensus in the Joint Joint Committee, and I thank Mr Darnaud, rapporteur in the Senate, for that. It is in this spirit, and with the desire that we all share, despite certain differences, to see this territory succeed, that I wish the text before us to be adopted and the order ratified. We will thus conclude more than two years of preparatory work and meet the high expectations expressed in favour of this territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u5	The Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u6	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the Bill to Ratify the Order Establishing the Paris La Défense Public Institution are now before you for consideration. The agreement reached with the senators only amended the text to extend the jurisdiction of the new institution with respect to subsidiaries. I would like to remind you of the main points. This order was made on the basis of article 55 of the Act of 28 February 2017 relating to the status of Paris and metropolitan development, which authorized the Government to "take by order [...] any measure in the field of the law with the object: 1 ° the creation of a local public institution involving the State, the department of Hauts-de-Seine, as well as territorial authorities and their groups, some of which are mandatory, for the planning, management and promotion of the territory of "Paris La Défense"; 2. the definition of the specific powers assigned to the State; 3. the definition of the geographical scope of the establishment, in consultation with the municipalities concerned; 4 ° the substitution of this establishment to the public management establishment of the business district of La Défense and to the public planning establishment of La Défense Seine Arche. » The aim of this reform is to establish a unified management of the district of La Défense, the first European business centre, in order to respond to the development and attractiveness challenges facing it. In concrete terms, by merging the two existing institutions – La Défense Seine Arche's public planning institution, EPADESA, and La Défense's public management institution, known as Defacto – to put an end to this separation of functions, which has largely demonstrated its inefficiency. Today, we are completing this process, which will lead to the creation, on January 1, 2018, of a single local public institution replacing the two institutions. The decentralization of this new institution, assumed by the State, entrusts fully the responsibility for the development of La Défense to the territorial authorities. The department of Hauts-de-Seine, which will be the majority, as well as the communes of Courbevoie, Nanterre, Paris and Puteaux, the Île-de-France region and the Greater Paris metropolis, will be represented on its board of directors. Through the regional prefect, the State will remain present within the institution to ensure coordination between the State and the institution's activities. The Order also provides for the transfer, free of charge, of the rights, property, obligations and personnel of EPADESA and Defacto to the new establishment. As a result of the parliamentary debate, there is no longer any exception to this transfer, which will allow the institution to fully carry out its tasks. With regard to the issue of perimeters, the national representation had simplified the text while keeping the spirit in mind. The Paris La Défense public institution will thus exercise its powers in two distinct sectors. On the scale of the Seine Arche operation of national interest, it will act as a public de facto development institution: it will be equipped with an initiative capacity, which will enable it to take over the operations launched by the EPADESA without this capacity excluding that of the competent communities. On the other hand, at the level of La Défense's national interest operation, the institution will have exclusive planning and management skills. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] From this point of view, the text of the Order does not upset the current balances, which may evolve – the boundaries can be modified by Order-in-Council – for the sake of consistency and above all to reflect the consensus between the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u7	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u8	Madam Chair, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice-Chair of the Committee on Laws, Mrs Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are here at the end of the legislative process which will see, on 1 January 2018, the birth of a unified public institution, "Paris La Défense". In less than a year, Parliament will have succeeded, despite the renewal of the two chambers, in reaching a broad consensus on a matter of national importance. The fourth global business district, Europe's largest business district, La Défense deserves a tool that is better suited to its challenges, while Brexit brings us to meet new challenges. Thanks to the in-depth work done by the two rapporteurs, in the Senate Mathieu Darnaud in the Senate and here Isabelle Florennes, whose excellent work and spirit of openness I would like to highlight, the various stages were completed without major difficulties. The discussion of the text, in committee, in a public meeting and then at the Joint Joint Committee meeting – which resulted in an agreement on 6 December – revealed a convergence of views on the essentials. By finally passing the bill to ratify the Order of May 3, 2017, we will allow the new public institution to take full responsibility for the development and management of this particular territory. The mission of the public establishment Paris La Défense will be essential, not only to make this territory even more dynamic and attractive, but also more welcoming, more alive, more functional for its inhabitants and users. It is also a matter of strengthening its action in the service of a national ambition. The transfer of pilotage to the communities – which is given to them rather than transferred – is the second fundamental axis of the order. If it were to be recalled one last time, a whole series of infrastructure, at the expense of the State, had not been maintained as it would have taken in recent years. The example of the fourteen tunnels, the condition of which leaves much to be desired, is quite convincing in this respect. Since the State has not assumed these tasks, it is now up to the local authorities, first and foremost the Hauts-de-Seine department, to finance and carry out the necessary improvements and renovations. In return, the new public institution should be allowed to function as best as possible and the system should be consistent. In this regard, the Republican Group is particularly committed to respect for the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. Despite some differences of approach, we have managed to find a balance on the ability to create subsidiaries, by adopting an amendment by Senator Darnaud, which repeats the wording of clause 3 adopted by the Senate, a proposal that I myself made in committee. The possibility for the public institution Paris La Défense to set up subsidiaries or acquire interests, under certain conditions, will thus allow to deepen the decentralization of the management and governance of this territory. The compromise found in CMP is a signal to potential investors, as well as a significant asset for attractiveness. It is therefore wise that we have managed to overcome our small differences in the interests of this project. We have not managed to find a perfect agreement between the two chambers on the relationship between the autonomous responsibility of the new public institution on the one hand and the intervention of the representative of the State on the other, but essential steps have been taken – I am thinking in particular of the question of the ownership of the car parks. The convergence of views of our two assemblies has made it possible to find a solution. The choice of two perimeters, one exclusively in terms of planning and management in the historical district of La Défense and the other, not exclusive, for the planning of the territory Seine Arche is also the result of the balance found in the favour of shuttles, as well as the extension of management skills in the field of security of goods and people, with the possibility of using video protection, but also of the skills in the field of road traffic or the cleanliness of public roads and spaces. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] After a long debate, rich in episodes, the Republican Group will vote in favour of the CMP text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u9	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u10	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill ratifying the order establishing the public institution Paris La Défense is now at the end of its legislative process. It was carried out with one goal and one goal: to establish a comprehensive and harmonized management of the La Défense district in order to strengthen its attractiveness and to put an end to the absurdity of the territorial millefeuille and the Kafkai management, if I may, of which it was suffering. So far, two institutions have been competing so as not to have to solve the problems of everyday life. We were funding two institutions that referred the most urgent responsibilities to each other. It was no longer possible to accept that the population or businesses would have to suffer once again a failure of the main axis lighting network, as it was five years ago, without any instance taking over the repair. Action must now be taken to avoid the worst. We therefore welcome the fact that the CMP has reached an agreement, which allows us today to make a final reading of the text with a view to its entry into force on 1 January 2018. We are also pleased to see that this project has generated a broad consensus on the ground among all stakeholders and actors involved in this territory – the state, of course, local authorities, the various representatives of the successive institutions, as well as the economic actors and the inhabitants of the perimeter. The difficulties are finally overcome when the project has a great ambition, as is the case here. The new establishment must fulfil the two purposes that led to its birth: a large renovation movement to carry out the investments carried over for too long; improving the attractiveness of the financial centre to make it one of the world's largest business centres capable of competing in New York, London, Singapore, Shanghai and Seoul. The district of La Défense has evolved considerably since its creation: it now houses the headquarters of some of the largest French companies, but it also includes universities, educational institutions that form our young people, shopping centres, buildings and residential areas. All this must be taken into account in order to promote harmonious development for everyone. I am confident that the new institution will be able to respond to the two issues I raised earlier. At first reading, thanks to the excellent work of our rapporteur, Isabelle Florennes, we had worked to ensure that the new institution had all the management instruments necessary for its development. The public institution Paris La Défense must be given the means, all the means, to promote the development of this territory. This is a unique opportunity to increase efficiency by bringing together the two former institutions – EPADESA and Defacto – into one, the main objective of which will be to create a financial centre with an international dimension. The merger must be carried out in concert and in good agreement, but we know the actors who are very invested and concerned that the projects under way – and they are large – do not suffer from the reorganization. These objectives are shared, as evidenced by the agreement reached on a multi-annual development strategy, supported by a 10-year investment plan. Effectiveness of governance, in order to respond more quickly and simply to the demands, attractiveness of the neighbourhood, to accompany its development, and this at the service of a national ambition, these are the key words that guided the elaboration of this text. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u11	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u12	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks after the first reading in this House of the bill ratifying the order establishing the Paris La Défense public establishment, because of the differences of appreciation with our fellow senators, we are here again to adopt the text proposed by the CMP. With the exception of Article 1e r, which is intended to ratify the Ordinance, Article 7 which provides for the inclusion of parking lots in the equipment transferred to the new establishment and Article 8 for which the votes were in conformity, remained in discussion the provisions of Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 5a. I have no doubt that most of the provisions adopted during the examination of the text in the National Assembly would have agreed in the upper chamber if there had been a second reading; Members of the Joint Committee were also well received by the members of the Joint Committee. I am thinking in particular of the extension of the powers of the public institution with regard to the safety of goods and persons, whether it be video protection or road traffic. As for the provisions that could lead to divergences – for example, the definition of the scope of intervention or the possibility of setting up subsidiaries and acquiring interests in local public companies – they were the subject of consensus. I would therefore like, on behalf of the UDI Group, to welcome the work of the Joint Joint Committee and yours, the rapporteur, which have made it possible to achieve the objective by bringing together the conditions of listening and dialogue, which are essential for conciliation. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, we were all aware that it had become necessary to modernise the business district of Paris La Défense. The lack of coordination between the various local actors and the State had already lasted for nearly 20 years. This unfortunate situation hampered the expected investments to replace equipment and infrastructure which had been repeatedly denounced by the Court of Auditors. I would therefore like to commend all the Members who have worked on this subject. Whatever our political sensitivities, whether in the Senate or in the Assembly, in the Committee on Laws or in public sittings, we had in common to seek a balance between the need to decentralize the governance of Paris La Défense and the need to allow for real territorial cooperation. I think we've been able to do that. After the merger of the two institutions responsible for the management and planning of this territory to form only one on January 1, 2018, Paris La Défense will be more functional and more welcoming for all its users. At a time when Brexit offers historical economic opportunities and it is up to us to promote sustainable, ecological urban planning, at the service of the quality of life of our fellow citizens, this text is able to give Paris La Défense the means to be competitive as a financial centre of global dimension and to make this site a real place of life of the 21st century, more shared, greener and more innovative. That is why we will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u13	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u14	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, Vice-Chair of the Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are asked to adopt the bill ratifying the Order of 3 May 2017 establishing the Paris La Défense public institution, following the work of the CMP on 6 December 2017. For the group Nouvelle Gauche, this project must be appreciated in the light of the road map which had been set by the former majority and which had four points: first, the creation of a local public institution with the mission of planning, managing and promoting the territory of "Paris La Défense" and involving the State and several local authorities, including the Département des Hauts-de-Seine; Second, the definition of the specific powers assigned to the State; thirdly, the delimitation of the geographical scope of intervention of this public institution, in consultation with the municipalities concerned; Finally, the substitution of this public institution with EPADESA and Defacto. This roadmap was based on the bold idea of decentralising Europe's first business district, following two main axes: rationalising governance and the territorial map; better define the competences and responsibilities of the different local actors. The Ordinance therefore creates a new public establishment as of January 1, 2018, with a dual planning and management mission. Its board of directors will be composed of 17 members, including nine representatives from the Hauts-de-Seine department, representatives from other communities and two qualified persons appointed by the Government. In this respect, the road map is respected. However, the majority's refusal to ensure pluralism in the representation of the Hauts-de-Seine departmental council is not acceptable. The amendment which our group made at first reading did not undermine the decentralizing spirit of the ordinance, it was aimed at strengthening its democratic spirit. And, like a nose to this requirement of pluralism, the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine has already indicated that its representatives would all come from the majority. The second point of the roadmap concerned the specific powers assigned to the State. On this subject, we are satisfied with the content of the order. The third point of the road map concerned the scope of the establishment and the role given to municipalities in defining it. The New Left Group opposes the current drafting of the order which will allow the public establishment Paris La Défense to intervene in the planning of a large part of the territory of the commune of Nanterre without being obliged to enter into a convention with it, as is the case today for the EPADESA. During the CMP, the Socialist senators wished to maintain this obligation of agreement, but they were not heard. Here I stress a constitutional risk: the representatives of the department of Hauts-de-Seine being the majority on the board of directors of Paris La Défense, the departmental community could be forced to exercise de facto guardianship over the commune of Nanterre. The final point of the roadmap called for the Paris La Défense establishment to replace Defacto and EPADESA. This is the case in the order and will simplify the administrative architecture of the area. However, this rationalization objective is not coming to an end. While the review of the bill has resulted in a change from three to two areas of intervention of the public institution, section 3 again introduces complexity. Thus, the Paris La Défense public institution will be able to create subsidiaries or acquire interests in local public companies. It is certainly the door open to the creation of many structures that will make public action more complex. Finally, the New Left Group regrets the timetable for ratification of the Ordinance. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors, in a report which has not been made public but which has been echoed in the press, considers that the decentralisation of the neighbourhood is too rapid, which prevents a rigorous inventory of the heritage transferred to the new public institution. On the other hand, an appeal was lodged with the Conseil d'État by the works council of the EPADESA, based on the absence of consultation with the local authorities before the establishment of this establishment, which is nevertheless a legal obligation. However, the ratification of the Ordinance, which should take place before the decision of the Council of State, will bring down the procedure. In summary, the New Left Group considers that the parliamentary review of the bill unfortunately did not allow the order of 3 May 2017 to follow the road map voted by the previous majority. That is why it will not vote for its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u15	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u16	Madam Chair, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, the vice-chairman of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the order that we are today asked to ratify definitively creates on January 1, 2018 a Paris La Défense public institution, which merges the two institutions currently responsible for the management and development of the business district. The spirit in which this public institution is created does not suit us. The project itself seems problematic. On the mind, first, or state of mind, the purpose of this order is to attract even more financiers who plan to leave the City of London because of Brexit to continue their works in continental Europe. According to the rapporteur of the text in the Senate, "Brexit is an opportunity for our economy and would be a historic opportunity for the district of La Défense. The argument was regularly repeated during the debates in committee and in the public sitting, during the first reading, as it was again before. What little image brings – and for the rather illuminating blow – of the Europe you are building! Like vultures on the carcass of the United Kingdom that stumble to share the remains, you are trying to attract multinationals, banks and businesses,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u18	... emblematic paradigms of the Europe of competition, this principleless Europe, whose members look forward to taking advantage of the defection of one of their own.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u19	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u20	We are resolutely against this state of mind and against the existence of off-ground business districts. In this case, it is not a district of excellence and innovation – which would be good for our country – but a project to concentrate business relations between banks and large companies at CAC 40. These neighbourhoods promote self-help, collusion, and disconnect financial professionals from the daily realities they are supposed to serve. They are, in our view, the symbol of this financing which should be de-nancized and put at the service of the general interest, of an economy whose main words should be the relocation and the ecological transition. But on the contrary, your majority has chosen to favour a finance that turns empty, in its bubble, without even seriously trying to regulate it, while, scandal after scandal, LuxLeaks in Paradise papers, its misdeeds are constantly being denounced. More fundamentally, we oppose this bill because, in our view, it still devotes itself to the dismantling of the state. You would like to entrust the full responsibility for the development of La Défense to the local authorities, in particular the department of Hauts-de-Seine, which will be the majority on the board of directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u21	Worrying!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u22	Only the regional prefect will continue to represent the state. In the name of a destructive liberal ideology, of competing between territories, you claim to deny the strategist role of the state in spatial planning. One example is the reintroduction of the power to create local public development companies, which may fail to comply with the public procurement code as part of their public service mission. We also question your motivations for fully entrusting the management of this area to the communities, including that of the Hauts-de-Seine department. You create a distortion between communities. As Patrick Jarry, Mayor of Nanterre, entrusted to the Parisian last month: "If the future establishment can finally free itself from the historical perimeter to conduct planning operations without consultation or even with the simple opinion of the municipality concerned, it is in no doubt that this violates the constitutional principle of the free administration of the local authorities. Indeed, 400 hectares of the commune of Nanterre, which has only one vote on the board of directors, will fall under the governance of this new establishment. If, initially, it was intended that an agreement would have been reached between the commune and the department, you have swept away this possibility with a backhand. The decisions of the department can be imposed on the commune, without any deliberation of the municipal council, and the efforts of our colleague Stéphane Little to guarantee true pluralism, diversity, have also been rejected. All this, while it would have been easier to choose metropolis for level of governance. Your decision makes no sense to us. It is not even justified by a concern for good management. The World revealed that the Court of Auditors had asked the Government to postpone its reform. In an interim report, the content of which has not yet been published, the magistrates are fustigating "a rushed operation on uncertain and fragile legal bases at the expense of the interests of the State". From a social point of view, this project raises so much concern among employees that the works council of one of the two establishments, EPADESA, brought an action against the order. Employees feel "taken hostage to a project that looks very much like a gift from the previous government to the Hauts-de-Seine department and an announced disengagement from the state". [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You will admit that, in these circumstances, we are against the project, this vague project of a government that has refused to wait for the opinions of the various specialists and to listen to the local authorities. For all these reasons, we refuse to vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u23	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u24	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, you are inviting us this morning to ratify definitively the order establishing the new single public institution known as "Paris La Défense" on 1 January 2018. In other words, you want us to give our white-sing to the small arrangements found in the Joint Joint Committee between the majorities of our two assemblies, between the new and the old world, in what is most detestable: the always borderline relations between the political sphere and that of money, which this department has known.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u25	This is a trial of intent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u26	I will not surprise you by telling you that we will not engage in this exercise. We cannot agree with the conclusions of a committee that loses the objections expressed by most parliamentary groups and by a number of local elected representatives. These objections are of two kinds. They focus primarily on the scope of action of the new Paris La Défense public institution. As you know, it will take over the historical perimeter of La Défense, inside the circular boulevard, but it will also be able to free itself from it to conduct planning operations on a much larger territory, without consultation or with the simple advice of the communes concerned. We have proposed that you introduce an obligation for the future public institution to sign an agreement with the municipalities in whose territory it will be competent, because, contrary to what has been said here, as well as in committee, the renewal of previous agreements with the new establishment will not be automatic. The statement is legally incorrect, which we will unfortunately be able to verify in the coming months. You have refused to provide the municipalities concerned with this minimum guarantee. This situation is not acceptable. In order not to contravene the constitutional principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities, you should have at the very least accepted our amendment, which called for the assent of the municipalities concerned on the development projects. Secondly, the composition of the board of directors as envisaged, with an absolute majority for the Hauts-de-Seine department, poses a real democratic problem. According to the Order, of the six communities represented, one of them has an absolute majority, which means that it is possible to impose its decisions on all others. Again, we proposed to correct this choice at the margin, guaranteeing a pluralistic representation of the Hauts-de-Seine department, as is usually the case in public development establishments. You then opposed the principle of the free administration of communities, which you had just trampled on by rejecting the previous amendment. There are, however, many provisions in French legislation providing for the obligation of pluralistic representations. This seemed to have come to light and we would not have proposed a new wording if the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine had not had the imprudence – without waiting for the enactment of the law – to appoint its representatives, exclusively from its majority. Thus the department of Hauts-de-Seine reinvents the system of the single party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u27	It's been a long time since he reinvented it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u28	Indeed! The district of La Défense has always made salivate the right of the Hauts-de-Seine and today flatters the megalomaniac delusions of those who want to take advantage of Brexit to make La Défense the new business eldorado. It must be said that in business, the right of the Hauts-de-Seine knows a radius!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u30	What a trial!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u31	Conflicts of interest, illegal financing, personal enrichment... From Charles Pasqua, to Ceccaldi-Raynaud, to Patrick Balkany, the history of the right in this department has always been that of "a clan that trades money", according to the formula used by journalists Davet and Lhomme in a 2013 book. Today's challenge for their successors is the opportunity to take a low hand over the district of La Défense and keep it in their guarded hunt. We regret that the present majority is complicit in such an operation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We will therefore resolutely refuse to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u32	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u33	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, was created in September 1958, the public facility for the development of La Défense. It was a state-owned public institution. The text under discussion proposes that, on 1 January 2018, sixty years later, the management and development of the first European business district, La Défense, be entrusted to local and regional authorities. This order is the result of numerous debates, extensive negotiations, dozens of hearings conducted to ensure that all stakeholders are heard, and that a fair and pragmatic decision is taken in the light of the issues involved in the text. On 6 December, the Joint Joint Committee managed to agree on a final version of the text, on which we will be asked to take a decision in a few moments. We have had constructive discussions, which reflect a shared desire to conclude this process. Once again, the compromise was a leitmotiv: in this spirit, at the initiative of senators, we amended clause 3 of the bill, in order to give the public institution Paris La Défense, within a well-defined framework and under certain conditions, the possibility of using subsidiaries to engage in a policy of attractiveness in this territory. At a time when we are about to have a final exchange on this text, it seems to me important to recall the issues at stake in the order. First, we are at a historic turning point in attractiveness. The Brexit negotiations took another step forward with the conclusion, a few days ago, of a financial agreement between Brussels and London. Our country has secured the organisation of the Olympic Games of 2024 and our metropolis is truly emerging, under the impetus of economic and international dynamism regained for our country. It is within this framework that the future of La Défense must be built. To meet these trends, the neighbourhood must benefit from long-term leadership, with renewed power and speed of action, as well as solid funding. In the short term, it will mean integrating Defacto and EPADESA teams into a common adventure that I believe they are ready to lead together. In the medium term, this will mean re-establishing this neighbourhood, which can no longer afford such a level of insecurity and obstinateness in the basement. Finally, in the long term, this will mean implementing a genuine policy of promotion and attractiveness so that talent and companies from all over the world want to settle in La Défense, but also to make life more harmonious on the historic site of the slab, and of course also with the neighbouring communes. Defence can make its transformation and become an example of protein development, both economic but also social, cultural or educational activities. Secondly, this text reflects a political evolution in the design of land use planning. We can have a strategist state that trusts communities to work in the public interest and meet the challenges outlined above. That is why we support the full decentralization of the development and management of this district, under the constructive and objective attention of the Prefect of the Region, who will retain prerogatives that we believe are sufficient and important. Having said that, we must not leave this to the question of territorial organization in Île-de-France, and we must also take into account the forthcoming debates on the organisation of the Paris metropolis in the reflection on the economic attractiveness of the district of La Défense. This text, finally, is marked by a pragmatism that is dear to the group La République en marche. By creating a unique institution, we are boosting decision-making and action. The situation, which had arisen from permanent disagreements and was tarnished by confusion in powers and responsibilities, was no longer tenable. Unifying is also a simplification. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The group La République en marche defends the political and operational balance of this bill of ratification of the ordinance establishing the Paris La Défense public establishment. The Joint Joint Committee has easily found a consensus, and I invite you to imitate it, ladies and gentlemen, by voting in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u34	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u35	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u36	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u37	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u38	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on student guidance and success (No. 391, 446, 436).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u39	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with amendment No. 125, as amended, which included additional article after article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u40	Amendment No 125, as corrected, is not defended. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No 8, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u41	It is a great pleasure for me to defend Amendment No 8, which you had the right idea to table, Madam President, and which has been co-signed by many colleagues. The purpose of the report is to ask the Government to submit to Parliament a report, albeit a relative weapon, at the hands of the opposition deputies, which we are again using, on the management of the contribution for the social, health, cultural and sporting support of students. As several of us said last night, we remain extremely dubious, if not more so, as to the relevance and effectiveness of a system that trusts the CROUS – regional centres of academic and academic works – the collection of this new contribution, with the responsibility for them to hand over a share of it to higher education institutions. This pipework seems to us to be both a little complex and, in some respects, likely to feed some questions or even some suspicions. In any event, in order to be able to measure the effectiveness and effectiveness of such a mechanism, we would like national representation to be informed by having, one year after the coming into force of this bill, a report on the management of this contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u42	Mr Gabriel Attal, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u43	Your amendment seems to me to be satisfied with section 7 adopted in committee, which provides for a report on the overall impact of the bill, which will also focus on assessing the effects and distribution of the proceeds of the new contribution that we adopted yesterday. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u44	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u45	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u46	Mr Stéphane Testé, the first speaker on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u47	A circular dated 22 July 2015 on the "implementation of a period of caesure" opened the year of caesure at the university. Until then, this useful parenthesis, which allows a student to carry out an internship, a stay abroad, a civic service or humanitarian action, was most common in large schools. At university, this remained a perilous and unknown practice, as there was no guarantee of reintegration into the higher year. And, despite this circular, taking a year of caesure at the university is still not easy and many students give up in the face of difficulties. It therefore seemed necessary to strengthen that right. This is done with Article 5 of this text, which states in the law the year of caesure. The student will be able, after the conclusion of an agreement with his or her institution, to suspend, for a maximum period of one academic year, his or her presence in the institution in order to carry out other activities which will enable him or her to acquire skills useful for his or her training or to carry out a personal, professional or linguistic project. This will also enable it to develop as many assets as possible to integrate into the labour market. With this bill, the year of caesure will now be open to all students, regardless of their university, level of study or project. This makes it easier for students to benefit from a year of bachelor's degree. This recognition reflects the Government's willingness to place each student's personal and professional project at the heart of his or her academic career and to enable him or her to adapt his or her pace of study accordingly. In fact, according to the most recent survey of the National Bureau of Students Engineers, 77% of students draw a very positive personal assessment of their year of caesure, which allows to obtain a first professional experience, to mature a project or to ensure its consistency. That is why this clause, like the bill as a whole, is in the right direction for our students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u48	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u49	This article will make it possible to include in the law the year of caesure. Any student will be able to benefit from it, from the first cycle and even between the year of obtaining the baccalaureate and his first year in higher education. For us, this is another step towards the customisation of training pathways, already referred to in Article 1. Defining in the law the year of caesure allows it not to be seen as a year "for nothing". In addition, by making it a valuable element, it is definitely included as a useful year of the training course. As a former vice-president of a university, responsible for the guidance, success and professional integration of students, I can assure you that a well-built caesure system is likely to promote the student's personal development and enable him or her to gain autonomy. The council is responsible for both the students, who commit themselves, and the higher education institutions, with which they will sign an agreement, as provided for in this article. The caesure may take place at different stages of the training course. No matter when a student chooses to apply for the benefit of this scheme, this will be a major experience, which will allow him to gain maturity and advance his personal project; It will also be an opportunity to discover new horizons and to acquire, for sure, new skills. Students will be able to interrupt their training in order to carry out a voluntary activity, perform a civic service, conduct an associative or student entrepreneurship project, or take up a job. In all cases, the experience of caesure will have to be restored and, above all, be valued. In fact, this return can, among other things, be valued by means of an appropriate assessment of competences. Finally, recruiters, potential employers will have to consider caesure as an element of training throughout the career, not as one more year, without input. This refers to lifelong learning, which will be the subject of legislative work as part of the major reform of vocational training in our 2018 agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u50	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u51	This article is an opportunity for me to make you see the unreal nature of this discussion. So you can imagine a year of caesure! Our colleague, Mr Fugit, states that it must be included in the course of training, and that it may eventually be regarded as an additional qualification criterion. No! That's not how things are going. Studies should be conducted from one end to the next, without interruption. If someone's leaving, it's only because he's lost his foot...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u52	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u53	...not intellectually but, most often, socially: 73% of students today work, a little or sometimes a lot, to be able to pay for their studies. Of these, 68% work full-time throughout the year; In other words, they must reconcile their employment with their education. I leave these figures to make you think about a requirement that is the premise of our reasoning: we need as many young people as possible to go to university. In fact, the higher the country's level, the stronger we will be, because the only raw material we have is grey matter. We will probably agree on this, but live it socially! The children of workers, employees and employees are the most numerous, because their parents are the most numerous social class. This is why we must come to help them socially in their studies. We had proposed an autonomy allowance, which we had estimated at 800 euros per month. Let me tell you that with 800 euros, we don't make a caesure! We do our studies without stopping, and we report to our family and to our country on the efforts we have made. I conclude with one word: let's go back to the real social. The social reality is the extreme difficulty of pursuing serious studies while working. I knew him in high school, with up to 100% of the students in a professional high school class who worked in the evenings and weekends. Well, let me tell you that these are the most disastrous conditions for studying. Yet these young people do. Let us think of them at this moment and pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u54	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u55	International mobility, associative engagement, professional experience, language learning, clarification of the professional project, and I pass: the 2008 survey of the National Office of Students Engineers reveals a very strong satisfaction of the students who were able to perform a year of caesure. I would remind you that, since it has been mentioned a lot in our debates, it is a tradition in a country like Australia. Because it allows us to broaden the horizons of the student and get out of the purely linear pattern of studies, the year of caesure is an undeniable progress for the professionalization, experience, internationalization and development of our students. To include in the law this possibility that exists today only by the circular of 23 July 2015 and thus to allow the scope of its application to be extended is therefore one of the advances that we applaud in the bill on the orientation and success of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u57	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u58	Article 5 provides that any student may, at his or her request and with the agreement of the President or the Director of the institution in which he or she is enrolled, temporarily suspend, for a maximum period of one academic year, his or her presence in the institution in order to carry out other activities enabling him or her to acquire skills that will be useful for his or her training as well as for a personal or professional project. I am thinking of European voluntary service, openness through experience in another country in our continent, or the conduct of an associative project. The group The Republicans is not against the principle of a year of caesure, but wishes that it does not automatically give rise to the payment of scholarships, which could depend on the project presented by the student. We will also propose to frame the scheme by providing a stage point during the academic year in order to allow for better follow-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u59	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u60	In the continuity of our discussions, and in order to illustrate some of the amendments that our group will be presenting to you, I would like to remind you of what we are talking about exactly: the possibility for a student to take a year to work, to accumulate money to finance his studies? What a record of failure! Other solutions exist, and have been intellectually defended for years by the progressive movement, by the student movement, including the study allowance, mentioned earlier by President Mélenchon. One of our colleagues says that this may be an opportunity to travel, to broaden its horizon. In this case, let us maintain the scholarship system: how can we travel and emancipate ourselves if we do not have the material means to do so?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u61	The scholarships are maintained!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u62	Otherwise, the inequality will be replicated, which means that only the sons of the most affluent categories will be able to make use of that year, while those of the modest, scholarship categories will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u63	The system is maintained!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u64	Read the text before coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u65	That's a problem. That is why I propose that, if you keep this idea of caesure in view of the few advantages it may have, you maintain the system of scholarships for those who benefit from it. Failing that, it is in fact an inequitable trap that you open, a justification for dropping out of some students. Indeed, we know very well that if the material conditions are not met so that the year of caesure is really an element of enrichment of a training course, it will be not a caesure but a rupture, a point of no return. We do not want to be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u66	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u67	Like my two colleagues in the running Republic group who spoke before me, I defend the year of caesure. I agree with their arguments, but I wanted to tell you more precisely about the novelty introduced in this article: the possibility of taking a year of caesure between the bachelor's degree and higher education. During the hearings, we listened to students, and we found that this type of request can meet different expectations. Some students wish to acquire more maturity or skills, for example in a foreign language, before starting their course. Other students may need time to refine their orientation project, think about it. Some people hesitate between two paths, and may be able, through internships, to make their choice. Those who find that their initial assignment no longer corresponds to their expectations will be able, the year after their experience, to re-register on the platform to make new wishes. We must therefore imagine a system that is both flexible for students and simple to manage for universities, a system that both maintains a guarantee of place after the year's restoration and allows for a change of domain where necessary. On the other hand, the student who receives his or her assignment from June onwards and who has the plan to leave directly for a whole year of caesure must be able to validate his or her agreement as soon as possible, so as not to have to delay his or her project and, above all, to free up a place to allow another candidate to pursue studies in the same way. All these opportunities will allow students to customize their training themselves by integrating stays abroad or passages through the professional world. In conclusion, I am confident in how the students will seize this mechanism and how the institutions will supervise it. I will vote for this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u68	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a moment to explain the philosophy of Article 5 and to clarify certain elements. First of all, as students are well enrolled in the schools during the year of caesure, they are subject to ordinary law, like other students, and that is really our goal. If some of them are fellows, they will continue to benefit from their scholarship; I'm saying it in order to reassure you about this. I really want to stress this point. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Secondly, the year of caesure may have several objectives. These are defined and validated through an agreement with the institution where the student is enrolled. I would therefore like to reassure all those who believe that the institutions, after signing the agreements, will no longer be concerned about the future of their students. This is obviously not the way universities work: in these institutions, as in schools, we have been caring for our students for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u70	We now come to the amendments to Article 5. The rapporteur, Mr Gabriel Attal, has the floor to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u71	It's editorial, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u72	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u73	As our colleague Frédéric Reiss has just said, the Group of the Republicans is not at all hostile to the principle of a year of cassure or skeptical as to the relevance of including this principle and its modalities in the law by Article 5. As several speakers have said, this year offers many opportunities, provided that they are used effectively and appropriately, to enrich a course of training, particularly academic ones. Article 5, paragraph 3, provides that an agreement concluded between the student and the institution shall define the purpose and purpose of the suspension of training and the manner of return. We would like by amendment No 106 to supplement this paragraph, because sometimes things go better by saying them and writing them in the law, specifying that this restitution can be made during the year, at the request of the institution. To provide for a step point, to include this possibility in the text of this Article 5 seems to us important: there must be follow-up, a framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u74	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u75	Mrs Le Grip, as you pointed out, the terms of the year of caesure are defined in an agreement between the student and the university. In the text as drafted today, there is no prohibition that restitution should be made during the year; That's why it's allowed. If the university and the student consider that it is appropriate to provide for a refund in the course of the year, this will be included in the agreement. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on this amendment. I take this opportunity to say that this section of the bill is a major step forward for students. The possibility of completing a year of caesure during a course is expected, endorsed by all students who intend to take a break in their course, go discover another country or region, do an internship, have a first professional experience or discover another institution abroad. I am surprised that you can instruct us to come back to the real, Mr Mélenchon, because the students have a real desire to open up, to discover other things before they complete their studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u76	That's good.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u77	I am also surprised that your group, which has adopted an amendment – and we have voted for it – which aims to give the university a function of emancipation, of openness to the world, today rejects this article, which precisely meets this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u79	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u80	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u81	The year of caesure is a good thing, as it allows the student to better modulate the course of his studies. This possibility is already available in a number of curricula, as you know. However, this system must be set up within the framework of the academic year, i.e. by semester. You can't give the student the freedom to do what he wants, to do a few days' or a few months' caesure. This was the subject of a previous amendment which I was unable to defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u82	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u83	I would appreciate it if, in the course of the discussions, others were not charged with reasoning that was not theirs. You are surprised, Mr rapporteur, by the contradiction between what we are saying and the desire for emancipation. Please, let's be a little more serious! What are we talking about? We're not talking about the recreational journey of I don't know what young...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u84	It's not a recreational route!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u85	... which would have the opportunity to offer itself a year to discover the world and other extremely socially marked bla-bla, but because we are breaking with the idea that a university course is a qualifying course, the stages of which are determined by the teachers and by the disciplinary councils. If the course is in three years, that you have to learn a particular specialty or a particular subject, then it's in three years. If it takes four, it's better to say it first. On the other hand, even if we do not know how this will happen, we cannot insidiously imagine that each person will add a year to his or her curriculum according to his or her own meditation. For my part, I disagree completely with this possibility. A qualification refers to a repository, and a repository is a content and a journey. If it takes more time for this journey, then plan more time. For example, I defend the professional baccalaureate in four years instead of three, because three years is a mistake. If you insert a year of caesure into a curriculum, it will necessarily be determined socially, and I come back to it because it seems to me that this is the bottom line. Ladies and gentlemen, note what you yourself are saying, and I am sure in good faith: the year of caesure will allow the young person to open up and go to another country, which will enrich his qualification. All right? We therefore add a qualification by the year of curation, we increase the course within the repository. And don't tell me otherwise! Diplomas have been designed with specific content and reference points. The specialized commissions, the academics who establish them know what they are doing, they think about it before they do it. They do not include anything in a curriculum for any duration. In addition, with this personal dimension, you add an element to the qualification. A colleague said earlier that this would be taken into account at the time of the evaluation. It will therefore be necessary to make a caesure to improve its balance sheet. I'm warning you against the gear you're putting in place. Good will is not enough when you are a legislator. We must stick to firm and universal rules. Otherwise the good will is surprised by the way someone here or there seizes the device by having imagined something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u86	The time has largely expired, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u87	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let us be rigorous in the writing of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u88	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u89	I just wish to reassure Mr Mélenchon. I have the chance to attend college every week, so the students. This year of caesure has been misunderstood: it is not a folk year, as described. On the contrary, it is a year whose content will be discussed with educators and the academic environment, and this content corresponds to what is called skills. It is true that diplomas must be obtained, but recruitment is not only based on the latter: it is also based on what was experienced during the preparation of a diploma. Finally, as I said earlier, caesure offers an opportunity to go abroad, because there are always means, for example the grants offered by the regions. This practice already exists; It's just going to become official. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Césure is also an opportunity to discover a profession, perhaps to say that it is not what we want to do, and to reorient ourselves the following year, for example to agri-food or health. So it's an incredible chance, and tomorrow it will be a major element in the curriculum vitae of our students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u90	What you put in place will be totally unequal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u91	Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u92	I am very surprised by President Mélenchon's remarks. Let us be clear: in this open world of the twenty-first century, which we all here call for, qualifications and know-how are certainly essential – you are absolutely right, Mr Mélenchon, and we must be rigorous on this point. Our national education and vocational training encourage excellence in this area. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] But knowledge, learning and openness also matter. The possibility of leaving, in France or abroad, allows us to develop the knowledge-being, which is very important in the evolution of our society, our careers and our civilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u93	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u94	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u95	I would like to respond to Mr Mélenchon's slightly caricatural remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u96	I've been minister of vocational education, I know what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u97	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] We know the course of our students. They are very varied, depending on the fields but also according to how they build their course, in training and sometimes during periods of caesure, of a year or a few months if necessary. Our students don't deserve to be the subject of cartoons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u98	[[Long protests on the benches of the REM group]] What do you know about it? Start by respecting others!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u99	I have before me three amendments, Nos 195, 78 and 107, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 195.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u100	We take note of the remarks made by the Minister. The drafting of the law is thus made that the parliamentary debate sheds light on its meaning. If I understand you correctly, minister, a year-old caesure student remains a university student and therefore retains the benefit of her scholarship.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u101	Yes, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u102	So our amendment is superfluous. I do not understand, Madam Member, why you call my words caricatural. They are part of a certain idea of university qualification. I will also speak to our colleague, who mentioned skills earlier – everyone here has the term "skills". According to him, the year of caesure, intended to offer an opening to the world – as if it were socially within the reach of everyone! – would add to the skills acquired. I shall make two remarks on this point. First, not everyone will have access to it. However, the spirit of the law, in particular those relating to national education, is that everyone should be able to attain the same qualification as long as he has followed the related path provided for by the law. Adding subjective notions such as openness to the world from which one or another has benefited is tantamount to changing the content of the diploma. In addition, the words "competence" and "qualification" each have a distinct meaning. We French have resisted for years, and so far, the pressures of the OECD to replace qualifications with skills. "Qualification" is the French word! This is assessed, a qualification, on the basis of the credentials of diplomas!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u103	A skill, too, it's worth it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u104	Qualification alone is not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u105	Cartoons!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u106	These are not cartoons but facts, in particular intellectual battles in which the French, on the right and on the left, opposed the Anglo-Saxon university system. If you decide that all this is worthless, ladies and gentlemen of the majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u107	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u108	That's your right! But then you have to say it without mixing the notions or making people believe that they are the same, because a skill and a qualification is not the same! If there is a repository and you pass the related tests, then you are qualified and you get your diploma. If we add subjective elements to this, we increase the expectation of the diploma and ruin its universal value. I admit we don't agree with me, but let's respect everyone's point of view! My remarks do not fall within the scope of caricature. I was Minister of Vocational Education and I fought against the OECD, which at all costs wanted to make the French swallow the replacement of qualifications by skills, thus the ruin of our vocational education system. [[Smile]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to speak with passion about it, because I do not understand that we are turning the page of decades of effort, made by academics and intellectuals of all sides to defend values now trampled on at the turn of a caricature about my caricatures!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u109	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u110	The purpose of this amendment is to clearly include in the law the possibility that a cesure student may retain his or her rights to a higher education scholarship. Since the training system has evolved considerably, suspensions of training with a view to completing an internship in France or abroad, or a civic service, are currently highly appreciated or even required in certain fields. Since this year outside the walls fully participates in the training of the student and the student complies with the conditions previously defined in consultation with his or her institution, the payment of the scholarships must not be suspended. It would be unfair for scholarship students to be deprived of the right to perform a year of caesure on the ground that they would be deprived of resources for lack of payment of their scholarship. The aim of this amendment is to recall that the purpose of the award of grants is to make the republican meritocracy real, which presupposes the reduction of real and material inequalities. It is based on Circular No. 2015-122 of 22 July 2015 on the implementation of a period of caesure, which offers the possibility to retain the benefit of the stock exchange under certain conditions. In addition, it sets out the consequences of the opinion of the Council of State on the present bill, which states that "the assessment of whether or not to maintain social-based higher education grants during the period of separation shall be carried out under the conditions of ordinary law", including for neo-bachelians.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u111	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u112	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 107.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u113	It does not go in the same direction as the two previous ones. As I indicated in my speech on the article, we want to frame the caesure system. This amendment tends to make the payment of the grant subject to criteria of common law, in particular attendance, which would enable the institutions to ensure that the year of caesure is actually used wisely.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u114	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u115	I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen – ahead of the minister, so that these remarks will appear twice in the record of our debates – that, in the absence of any contrary mention in the law, the common law applies. As a result, scholarship students will be able to continue to receive their scholarship in their year of caesure, in accordance with the terms specified in the agreement that binds them to their institution. I also calmly point out to Mr Mélenchon that it is not a question of imposing a year of caesure on students or throwing them out of university without being concerned about what they will do. I repeat that conventions will be signed to clarify the arrangements. It is only a matter of opening a new right. I do not understand why the opening of a new right to students wishing to perform a caesure bothers you. It is a possibility, a right, not an obligation. I therefore suggest that these amendments be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u117	I would point out from the rapporteur that, in the absence of any mention to the contrary in the bill, students enrolled in an institution during their year of parishion are subject to ordinary law, as the signatories of these amendments wish. More generally, I have indicated on several occasions that the Student Plan, as well as this resulting bill, have been developed through a consultation process that has resulted in several hundred hours of meetings. Of course, representatives of all student associations, high school students, parents of students and staff were around the table throughout the three-month consultation. The year of caesure was the subject of a unanimous request by all participants. On another subject which has also been widely discussed during the debates, we will be working with all the organisations representing the students in January to set up a comprehensive self-government aid scheme. I wanted to point it out precisely. I therefore suggest that these amendments be withdrawn. If not, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u118	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u119	These amendments lead us to question the nature of the caesure. It is obvious that it can mask a drop-out of studies or a lack of seriousness. If, on the other hand, it is an opportunity for the student to complete his training and acquire additional skills, it is obvious that interested scholarship students must retain the benefit of their scholarship. It is not necessary to oppose the caesure and the quality of the teaching, which is guaranteed by the presentation badge which the student becomes aware of at the time of his registration. Arbitration is the responsibility of the teacher, who is responsible for the quality of the teachings but also for the quality of the life of each student for whom he or she is responsible. The scholarship student for whom the caesure constitutes an opportunity for training must continue to benefit from his scholarship. It's very simple!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u120	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u121	I must admit that my state of mind is moving in the course of our exchanges. I hope that no one has caught up with the passion of what was said earlier. However, I am increasingly embarrassed, to the point of contradicting what I said earlier about the system that we are about to set up. You have described our remarks as caricatural, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. I was a professional high school teacher for twenty-two years. We know very well that the internships carried out by the students vary greatly, in terms of quality and location, depending on the social environment of the parents. Therefore, the quality of the year of caesure will depend on the social environment of origin. You're talking about trips abroad, but in truth, who has the ability to do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u122	Everyone! We can leave at the same time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u123	No, dear colleague! To believe that any student, regardless of his or her original social background, can go abroad for a year, that's who is completely caricatural – to resume your term! You live on another planet!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u124	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u125	Depending on the quality of the year of caesure, travel abroad or possible professional experience in a company, one will obtain a different qualification and recognition, thus a diploma whose nature will change a lot according to the possibilities that one will have available!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u126	The qualification remains unchanged!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u127	You're blowing up the national framework of university education! It must be admitted that this is a major problem! Unless the year of caesure is separate from the training, its integration into the university career will lead to widening inequalities! Are you aware of that, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? You keep calling our words caricatural, but you have understood that the university has a dimension of reproduction of social inequalities! Colleagues who claim to be in contact with the students every day, you are not going to make me believe that these young girls and young people, from different social backgrounds, live the same thing, do the same professional internships and have the same connection to trips abroad as you keep bragging about us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u128	Yes, exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u129	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u130	So there is a fundamental problem here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u131	It's a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u132	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You need to hear what I'm saying! In the course of our exchanges, I measure what you are doing: in truth, it is an explosion of the national framework of diplomas! There is something very dangerous here, and I must admit that I did not take the measure at first.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u133	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u134	With regard to the year of caesure, we have never reduced it to the possibility of travelling abroad, as you say following Mr Mélenchon, Mr Corbière! I would point out in passing that there are aids for students who go abroad for a year of caesure, including for students with social difficulties and lack of means.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u135	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u136	Be nice, Mr. Corbière, let me speak, please! For example, some foundations offer aid, so do the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u137	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u138	The possibility of a caesure, which everyone will be free to take or not, is a plus and not a minus. It is a more destined for those who want to take it, who do not take it away from others.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u139	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u140	We plan to make use of the achievements of the students and to take stock of them in order to help them take account of them and to use them in the preparation of their professional integration. Already, if a student is particularly involved in a citizen engagement, if he is elected to a trade union or elected to a board of directors, a training commission or an academic council, all this is valued, which does not bother you, Mr Corbière – nor am I, by the way, very happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u141	It's not the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u142	This is a plus for them, not a minus for others. As for the notion of competence, which has been a bit annoyed to you, Mr Mélenchon, I would like to reassure you. I have taught for many years and, like Mr. Berta, I have regularly received my students. The competency-based approach is a new pedagogical approach that is expected to grow. Competency repositories have even been put in place at the level of the 45 general licence endorsements. There is nothing negative about this: it is simply a question of validating different levels of acquisition, depending on whether you are in a master's, a license, etc. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The competency-based approach was not introduced against French universities. On the contrary, it is the French academics who defend and use this concept, thus changing the pedagogy by developing an approach by projects and programmes. The teaching has changed since you were a minister, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u143	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u144	This amendment will not appeal to France as it aims to enhance the experience gained during the year of caesure. Upon his return, the student takes an explanation interview, takes a stock of skills, in front of a teacher. If the institution recognises that the project carried out by the student during the year of separation has enabled him to acquire skills or knowledge in connection with the teaching units of his field, he must be able to grant him credits under the European credit transfer and accumulation system, says ECTS. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The aim of this amendment is therefore to enhance citizen engagement and personalisation of courses and to consider a new way of living the university path. This provision would facilitate the emancipation of the student.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u146	The conditions for valuing the year of caesure, in particular in terms of ECTS credits, will be defined by the agreement to be signed between the institution and the student. The project will then be closely examined by the school's study management, in conjunction with the student himself. If this project provides skills and experience that are consistent with training, it can be valued in the form of ECTS credits that will be taken into account for the award of the diploma.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u147	It's the end of graduation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u148	This was an appeal amendment, Ms. Colboc. In the light of the clarifications I have just given to you, which will be reflected in the record of our proceedings, I invite you to withdraw them. Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u150	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u151	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u152	I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u153	I have before me a number of amendments containing additional articles after Article 5. Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 94.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u154	The aim of this amendment is to fill a legal gap by assimilating trainees from the "Grande école du numérique" labeled schools to trainees in higher education. In fact, some 400 training courses now benefit from the label in question, which was created in 2015. These are short and qualifying training courses for young people without diplomas, job seekers or persons undergoing vocational retraining. In the current state of the law, students taking these courses do not receive exemption from social security contributions when taking internships. The current legislation on work placements provides for two statutes: that of a trainee in higher education, reserved for classical students, which allows for a probationary grant exempt from social contributions and that of trainees in continuing training, some of whom are covered by a third party and do not receive internship allowances since they are compensated by a funder for the duration of their training. However, some students who want to take a "Grande école du numérique" course are unable to obtain funding. They therefore face a double penalty when they complete their internship: they are not financed by a third party and companies are reluctant to compensate them because their gratuity is not exempt from social contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u156	I understand the purpose that you have pursued through this amendment, but it seems to me to be beyond the scope of this bill. Perhaps it will have a greater place in the text on vocational training. I invite you to withdraw it, otherwise I will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u158	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u159	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u160	We will not vote for this amendment, but I would like to say to Mr Fugit that I am well aware of the changes that have taken place since the time when I was a minister. Sixteen years have passed. Thank you for reminding me! That's not the point. Rather, let us look at the general evolution of our thinking about our system – some of which may consider it worthless – and the difference between the concepts of skills and qualifications. If you rely on skills, you enter another system, that of certificates of competence. The Union of Metallurgy Industries and Trades – the UIMM – and other employers' organisations in various branches have been putting pressure on this mechanism to be introduced. You are quite a connoisseur, my dear colleague, to know that the words skills and qualifications do not have the same meaning. Furthermore, we have just heard the rapporteur, like Mrs Colboc, say that the year of caesure could lead to validation of the experience gained. I know this system well for having created it myself and extended it to two years, but let's not forget that it corresponded to a professional practice. Here, you want to offer students, to improve their results, to validate new skills. The intention is laudable, I readily acknowledge, and I do not intend to question your good faith, but you are putting in jeopardy a form of journey that was very clear and egalitarian for all young people. There are models, which provide for a number of years of study during which qualifications are acquired and assessed, not at the head of the client but on the basis of disciplinary knowledge, as explained by Mr Castellani. A bachelor's degree is obtained in three years, a point that is all: the student does not have to extend it by a year to be seen or to benefit from a validation of the experience. It is the transmission of disciplinary values – in the sense of the discipline studied – that we are talking about. The course must be the same for all, at the risk of widening social inequalities and ending equality between diplomas because they will no longer be the same according to whether they have been obtained in three or in four years, if the student has integrated a personal course. The device had a consistency, which you want to upset.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u161	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u162	Currently, students in distance training only cannot do internships because of the regulations. However, in the context of the rise in e-education, it would also be relevant to provide for the integration of internships into e-training curricula. The law of 10 July 2014 on the development, supervision of traineeships and improvement of the status of trainees, supplemented by the decree of 27 November 2014, specifies the procedures for applying periods of vocational training and traineeships. This decree states that "a teaching volume carried out in the presence of pupils or students... of at least two hundred hours per year of teaching" is necessary. Through this text, the legislator's will was to ensure effective and high-quality teaching support, to improve the status of student trainees and to combat drifts. The law of 7 October 2016 for a digital Republic states: "The teachings made available in digital form have a status equivalent to the teachings given in the presence of students". This leads to a number of changes in the education code. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u164	Same opinion as before, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u166	As you pointed out, Ms. Sanquer, an internship must be accompanied by 200 hours of teaching. I recently signed a decree to have at least 50 hours of teaching done in the presence of students – leaving 150 hours of distance learning. Distance learning is a very interesting new form of pedagogy, but human relations remain indispensable. I invite you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise I will be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u167	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u168	This amendment aims to strengthen the information on the scheme resulting from the Act of 27 January 2017 on equality and citizenship. It gives students the opportunity to demonstrate the skills, knowledge and abilities they have acquired in an extra-curricular setting. It is indeed important to value the commitment, in particular the involvement of associations, by better informing students about the possibilities of integrating it into their curriculum.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u170	The Equality and Citizenship Act allowed students to develop skills, knowledge and skills that they would have acquired as part of a citizen engagement, such as civic service. Today, institutions have an obligation to inform their students of this scheme. You want to strengthen the information, and I share your concern because I am very attached to civic service. Our country needs young people to become involved more than ever, but it must give them the means to do so. We will discuss this more widely in the coming months. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u172	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u173	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u174	All situations must be taken into account. Some students, who wish to interrupt their studies for some time, will be able to do so by maintaining their scholarship. Others do not want it and may, on the contrary, have only one haste, that of completing their studies in order to finally enter working life. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Of course, there will be nothing to force students to take advantage of a year of caesure, but who will the employer choose, between the student who could have used a year of caesure to enrich his skills and the one who did not? Some students are young parents, and need to find a job quickly to feed their families. They will be discriminated against because they were unable to take a year of caesure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u175	Those who wish to interrupt will have the freedom to do so, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u176	[[Same movements]] This can happen! I suppose, for all of you to have had job interviews, you know the difficulties. No one would have the slightest difficulty in France having job interviews. We definitely don't live in the same world!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u178	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u179	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] It would be good, from time to time, to see the positive side of our proposals. This would allow us to move forward more surely than if we were to keep up with this disastrous vision of studies, students and youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u180	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u181	This amendment follows the same logic as Amendments Nos 94 and 95 which I have previously defended. It is intended to allow an undertaking which receives a trainee in continuing vocational training which is not financed by a third party to benefit from an exemption from charges on the gratuity paid by it. In order to avoid abuse, it is planned to limit the duration of the internship to a maximum of six months. Minister, I understand that you will soon sign an Order in Council to amend the provisions of the Education Code, but that will not address the issues that we have raised. We wish to continue our discussions in the coming days, in order to find a solution before the text is read in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u183	As I said earlier in connection with other amendments, this subject seems to me to be part of the reform of vocational training. I am sure that a study will take place in this context. Our colleague Sylvain Maillard here will probably be very attentive to these questions. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u185	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u186	Do you maintain your amendment, Member?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u187	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u188	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u189	I would like to clarify one point because we may not all have understood the meaning of our function. We are here to legislate, so to examine all the possible implications of the texts we are discussing. Yes, I assume I'm not just here to be interested in what's positive in your proposals. I am here to consider anything that can happen following the passage of a law. It's called legislating.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u190	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u191	Pregnant students need appropriate school rules, which are not recognized by all higher education institutions. In fact, today there is no obligation for the latter to set up a special study scheme for them. Establishments do not set up a special scheme; In others, students must pass through a series of additional checks of their condition imposed by the institution. If the Education Code automatically imposes a special education scheme for persons with illness or disability – I would like to recall here that a pregnancy is neither a disease nor a disability – it also provides for a special education scheme, of its own right, for high-level athletes. In this case, this may be closer to the reality of a pregnancy, but this is not legally confirmed. That is why, with the co-signatories of this amendment – whom I thank for their contribution – I propose to introduce the obligation for any higher education institution to establish a special system of study, of its own right, for pregnant students. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Apart from the fact that by adopting this amendment we would end discrimination, this proposal is consistent with the objective of the text, namely to improve student success.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u192	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u193	By asking institutions to put in place an appropriate study plan for pregnant students, Ms. Brugnera, you raise a very important point. This concern seems entirely legitimate to me. I therefore express a favourable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u195	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u196	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u197	[[Smile]] I congratulate you, my dear colleague, on having had the idea of proposing this amendment, which of course we will vote for. Indeed, under the pretext of a totally abstract universalism, the circumstances are innumerable where such natural conditions are forgotten – because it takes time for this to happen. I've known a lot of disciplines where it was as if it didn't exist. Well, yes! This is a very good idea, which we support – which will prove to you that we also know how to listen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u198	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u199	When I was in a student union organization or had national responsibilities in a youth organisation, I always supported the principle of the year of caesure. I hear the objections raised earlier by Jean-Luc Mélenchon from the academic point of view, but in this case we are talking about something else: how, in a journey of life, in a journey of citizenship, in a journey of emancipation, can a year of caesure also contribute to the commitment of young people, in transition to adulthood, to the service of the community? That is the purpose of this amendment. In order to circumvent Article 40 which, as you will have noticed, binds our hands here a little bit, I ask the Government to provide us with a report. We have passed the Equality and Citizenship Act. I ask that we look precisely at what was censored by the Constitutional Council at that time, but I believe that this was the case with Article 14 – judged as a legislative rider – which allows us to recognise in the form of ECTS credits the associative commitment of students, particularly the civic service.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u200	No, he wasn't censored!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u201	So the device was confirmed? All right. This law was the occasion for a second step forward with the citizen engagement account, allowing, with a commitment of 200 hours in an association, regardless of the volunteer practice, to have 20 hours of vocational training in the personal activity account. The purpose of this amendment is to request the Government to provide us with a report, within six months, to assess the impact of taking into account the association and citizen engagement of students during the year of separation on the citizen engagement account, thus on the personal activity account.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u203	It is against this request for a report – Mr Juanico, moreover, would be mad at me if that was not the case since he criticized me in committee for asking for a report from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u204	[[Smile]] I am always against the requests of the Government for a report but for those made by parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u205	This amendment was above all an opportunity for you to send a message after another amendment had been declared inadmissible – and I think it has passed. Once again, it is necessary to strengthen the commitment and the means to engage in all forms, especially for students, with the year of caesure: it will be possible to perform a civic service and validate it as experience and competence. We will have a great moment of reflection on the commitment in the coming months. That is the will of the President of the Republic and the Government. We will be able to continue moving forward in this direction. I would therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u207	Mr President, the activities to acquire the 20 hours entered in the citizen engagement account are: civic service engagement, voluntary voluntary service, international voluntary service in administration, international volunteer service in business, European voluntary service and international solidarity volunteering. A number of mechanisms are therefore already in place. Of course, I am very much in favour of discussing this issue with you, but not in the form of a report. I would therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment, otherwise I would be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u208	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u209	We Republicans are looking at Amendment No. 126 with a benevolent and interested eye. Opposition parliamentarians do not have so much leverage: asking the Government to submit a report to Parliament makes it possible to draw attention to a matter of concern, to pass messages. That a particular focus should be on the year of caesure and its use in personal projects, oriented towards voluntary, humanitarian and civic activities, seems to us to be absolutely essential. In particular, this could be the useful purpose of the year of caesure that we are enshrine in the law. I would like to take this opportunity to say that we are extremely reserved, if not more so, for the idea that the year in which we are to be paid could eventually lead to the allocation of additional ECTS appropriations, as was sketched out in a somewhat vague manner. For the moment, we would switch to a perfectly inappropriate dimension: the ECTS are nevertheless very much framed at European level and a year of caesure must not trigger what might be similar to an additional allocation of ECTS credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u210	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u211	As you know, God knows that we are in favour of citizen engagement and volunteerism, but we are above all in favour of the quality of education. Priority must be given to the continuity and quality of education. How do I articulate the two? The option offered to students to volunteer should not disrupt their studies. One cannot do anything: the continuity of education is necessary, as is the priority given to studies. All of this must be done in a coherent manner, under the authority of the pedagogical head who, as the name indicates, is responsible for the quality of the whole. We are not opposed to volunteering within the framework of the year of caesure, but this can only be done under the authority of the teacher head and at the end of the license. I don't see a first- or second-year student interrupting his studies to do a number of months of volunteering to the right and left. I am not opposed to the Government providing us with a report on the subject, but, again, in my view, priority should be given to the quality and continuity of education.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u212	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u213	I am naturally in complete disagreement with this proposal. Mr Juanico, you wished to recall that my objection was academic, that it was about the academic value of the course. I come back to my starting point: a perfect equality in qualification necessarily implies a course evaluated in the starting model in terms of number of years and content. If you give adjuvants a qualifying value, you change the nature of the diploma. I admit that we can have such an idea, but the nature of it would be changed in this case. Moreover, by whom will the qualifying value be assessed? Forcedly by a singular individual who decides. This is not acceptable. The validation of the acquis de l'expérience concerns a career path. It cannot be injected in the middle of a university course which, even if shocking, is not a matter of evaluation by the student himself. It is the responsibility of the academic authorities, whose job it is to evaluate the content of a licence or a master's degree. One does not add to his sauce a year of caesure, in which one would put a little of this and that and, above all, civic commitment. Indeed, if you add civic engagement, we have not finished discussing its nature. Personally, I consider that political commitment belongs to the field of civic engagement, and of the highest level, but it would never come to my mind to say that I will add it to my qualification. That's absurd! Let's stay on qualification paths evaluated on the basis of content, repositories and models. It is at this price that republican equality will prevail. It is not possible to proceed according to the head of the client, according to the inspiration of a particular teacher who may possibly exert pressure or according to the young person himself. No! You learn to be a doctor by learning medicine!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u214	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u215	Once it is not customary, I am in deep disagreement with Jean-Luc Mélenchon. Academic and higher education pathways are not linear: we must be able to take them into account. In the last few days, we have talked a lot about the failure rate at the undergraduate level, but we have forgotten to say that at the graduate level plus six, we now have 80% of graduates, which means that some courses are longer than others. We must also count on the right to failure and the right to return. I think the year of caesure may also be useful – but I can't come back to it. I am a staunch defender of Parliament's rights and parliamentary reports, which are of very high quality. You have understood, Mr rapporteur, that this amendment was a way for me to address the issue of student engagement, its valuing and its recognition. I therefore withdraw it and I suggest to Mr Studer, who chairs the Committee on Cultural Affairs and listens carefully to me, to include among the work that we are carrying out together in good intelligence, in 2018, the question of valuing the citizen's journey in higher education – but also in a broader way, because this journey must be continuous, starting from an early age and continuing throughout life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u216	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 6. Mr Napole Polutele has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u217	Minister, rapporteur, I want to tell you how much I share your concerns and the objectives of this bill. I regret, however, that it does not offer answers to certain specific situations and that it lacks ambitions for the overseas sector. It does not take sufficient account of the students of the southern hemisphere, whose calendar is based on the calendar year, especially those whose daily universe has nothing to do with that of the metropolis. I am obviously thinking of the young people of Wallis-et-Futuna – but not only. I would like to remind the national representative that this small community is located 20,000 kilometres from the metropolis, 3000 kilometres from New Caledonia and 4000 kilometres from French Polynesia. It is surrounded exclusively by English-speaking countries and has this particular feature that its school calendar is in line with that of New Caledonia. Students who, after obtaining their baccalaureate in December, decide to come to study in the metropolis, must therefore wait eight months before starting their studies. They could certainly study in New Caledonia, 3000 kilometres from home, or in French Polynesia, 4000 kilometres away, but you will understand, colleagues, that this is a major expense for their parents. It should also be borne in mind that 80 per cent of the population of that territory had no regular income. The pupils of Wallis-et-Futuna are therefore delivered to themselves for eight months, and they cannot rely on any means to help them overcome their difficulties, nor to prepare their departure to the metropolis. It is to remedy these difficulties that I have tabled a number of amendments, in order to bring a "plus" to these students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u218	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u219	Minister, I hope that under this very important bill, we will be able to find ambitious solutions together for the students of Wallis-et-Futuna, who are somewhat forgotten in the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u220	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u221	From our point of view, the previous intervention clearly shows the limitations of this bill, and the problems it poses – limitations and problems that are only accentuated overseas, as our colleague has clearly shown. The priority should be to correct economic inequalities for the benefit of families, students and low-income students. When reviewing the articles, we kept pointing out that you are introducing a selection that does not say his name. It will further penalize families, students and students in the popular classes. It was recalled, a moment ago, about the year of caesure. In reaffirming our state of mind, I would like to reiterate that we are not pursuing any intention on the part of the Government, even if, in the term "success", we prefer that of "emancipation". Of course, we want all young people and young people to have access to knowledge or enriching experiences abroad. On the other hand, we believe that the role of national legislation is not only to affirm this intention, but to propose concrete ways of correcting inequalities – because they exist. In our view, your bill, far from addressing social, cultural and educational inequalities, reinforces them, especially overseas. The introduction of the year of caesure, by opening courses à la carte, will give priority to those who already have capital. It is particularly obvious for stays abroad, even if the scholarships are maintained: it is not obvious to live in London or Australia with a scholarship corresponding to French standards. All those of us who have attended the university know that the major difficulties, especially for those who have long studies, are economic difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u222	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u223	But you are doing nothing to bridge these inequalities and ensure success for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u224	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u225	The rather premature withdrawal, a few minutes ago, of Mr Juanico's amendment deprived us of a possible reply from the Minister to the excellent question put both by Constance Le Grip, on behalf of the Republican Group, and by President Jean-Luc Mélenchon, on behalf of La France insoumée. I would like, Madam Minister, to clarify what, in the spirit of the Government, is the status of this year of caesure and its articulation with the academic process.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u226	We explained it in detail!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u227	You had to be there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u228	We are all in favour of a form of aeration in higher education, in favour of the year of caesure. On the other hand, we would be extremely opposed to the allocation of ECTS credits this year. [[Smile]] This is an opportunity for me to highlight, on this point, the perfect convergence between the Republicans on this shore and the Republicans on the other side. Jean-Luc Mélenchon's intervention showed that he had retained a form of academic classicism on this issue. Perhaps this is due to his experience as minister delegated to vocational education at the time of Lionel Jospin and Jacques Chirac.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u229	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u230	I would like to speak on behalf of our colleague from Wallis-et-Futuna. We are of course in favour of university regulations being adapted to the local conditions of the overseas countries and territories. The conditions are not the same in overseas and metropolitan areas – and they are not the same within the metropolitan area. This does not mean dismantling teaching or removing its coherence, but improving its quality by adapting it to local conditions. That is exactly what we proposed yesterday for Corsica. The rapporteur has opposed the Constitution, but it has nothing to do with it. We asked for the application of the law of 22 January 2002, which provides for the adaptation of the conditions of education. We were told that the Government does not have to apply for permission from Corsica. We do not expect anything like this: we ask that Corsica be able, in accordance with the law, to adapt certain provisions, in order to better adhere to the realities of the field. These are exactly the same problems that arise overseas, and we are very much in favour of ensuring that higher education and university life in these territories adapt to local conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u231	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u232	I feel that I have to explain myself on one point: I come back to the question of qualification, so that we can understand each other well. In France there is a Centre d'études et de recherche sur les qualifications, with its headquarters in Marseille. This is proof that the qualification can be assessed objectively. Let us take the case of professional diplomas, because they are diplomas that do not lie: when you leave, either you know how to do it or you don't know how to do it. And if you don't know how to do it, you can see it right away, especially when you're working on a machine worth hundreds of millions of euros – because there are – and you're handling a raw material. Moreover, in a certain way, all the diplomas which sanction the completion of higher education are diplomas of vocational qualification. When you finish your law and want to become a lawyer, you better understand the use of the law – the same is true in medicine. That's why I'm "classicism," as you say. Classicism in this area is a claim of my ideological and political family, because the diploma must be able to be assessed according to its content, in order to enter into collective agreements. As soon as the diploma is overloaded with all kinds of things that are added on its own initiative, or by the fantasy of a teacher, its nature changes. That is why I am opposed to adding to the notion of "qualification" that of "competence", which has nothing to do with it, as I am opposed to changing the content of a diploma, because it cannot, therefore, be automatically included in a collective agreement. However, collective agreements based on the university system are called the Social Republic. This means that what you have acquired has an exchange value, and not just a usage value. There is a use value and, because there is a use value, there is an exchange value in collective agreements. [[Smile]] It was a left-wing demand and I was extremely satisfied, since you mentioned that time, that Prime Minister Lionel Jospin and President Jacques Chirac accepted it. After all, it's with civilians that we make soldiers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u233	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u234	With regard to the year of caesure, it seems to me that she will give the young person an experience that will complete his studies. For a student who wants to become a nurse, spending six months in an emergency department or at the UAS can be very beneficial from a human point of view, even if it is not sanctioned by a diploma. With regard to the questions posed by our colleagues in the Pacific, we are well aware that distance and the school schedule present particular difficulties for students in those territories. Our colleague from Wallis-et-Futuna has exposed very well the economic difficulties facing the inhabitants of this community. However, I would like to point out that we have defined, in the programming law on real equality overseas, a working method to take account of these differences. We had laid down the principle that, despite the differences in the situation, we should strive for equality between the various overseas territories and the metropolis. To this end, we agreed to develop convergence contracts in all areas, between the community and the state, defining the way forward to achieve equality. It seems to me that this method of work is the most effective and that there is a need for consultation between the various overseas communities, the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Overseas Affairs, with a view to organising the journey of these young people, as well as the distribution of the additional costs they incur in the metropolis. Transport costs are already partly managed by the Overseas Agency for Mobility – LADOM – but we need to have a more global view. You are quite right to point out the specific difficulties faced by Pacific students, who are far more distant from the metropolis, but I am not sure, in this case, that we are in a position to resolve the issue other than through convergence contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u235	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u236	As a follow-up to Mrs Pau-Langevin's speech, I would like to say that the Overseas Ministry, the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation are working, within the framework of the overseas foundations, on the practical implementation of the law on programming relating to real equality overseas. In particular, we examine the specific devices that we could offer to ultramarine students. I would also point out that it is possible, in a number of training courses, to start the academic year in the second semester, which can be a solution for all the ultramarine territories of the southern hemisphere. Although not directly related to Wallis-et-Futuna, we are also working to establish agreements with Francophone universities closer to the ultramarine territories, in order to expand the training offered to students in these territories. We are also working on the creation of double degrees with these local Francophone universities. The dual degree has this advantage of preserving the registration rights of French diplomas for ultramarine students. As you can see, we are already working in several directions with Annick Girardin, and I will soon meet with the various university presidents of the ultramarine territories to work with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u238	We turn to the amendments to Article 6. Is your amendment No. 66, Mr Attal, drafting?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u239	Indeed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u240	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u241	The bill does not provide for any extension to French Polynesia of the provisions of the new article L. 841-5 of the Education Code, introduced by article 4 of the bill. However, the University of French Polynesia, as an operator of the state, carries out the tasks normally assigned to a regional centre of academic and academic works – CROUS – in the metropolis. The non-extension of these provisions will deprive the University of French Polynesia of the resources necessary for the animation and improvement of the quality of student life on its campus, knowing that it is also foreseen that contributions to the Fonds de solidarité et de développement des initiatives étudiants – FSDIE – can no longer be levied at the same time as the fees for enrolment in diplomas. Thus, the provisions to improve the daily lives of students would not apply to Polynesian students, whereas they would apply to their metropolitan counterparts. This would constitute a genuine breach of equal opportunities and would violate the principle of equal treatment. For the record, the number of students enrolled in French Polynesia is 3352 for this academic year. With a stable student population and an average scholarship rate of 40%, the loss of funding would amount to €143988 per academic year. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to extend and adapt the provisions of Article L. 841-5 of the Education Code to French Polynesia. It also provides for the payment of the contribution to the University of French Polynesia. Skills for social action are shared. French Polynesia also contributes, through its activities in the field of student housing, social protection and transport, to social policy in favour of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u243	The purpose of the amendment is to extend the provisions on the new contribution to French Polynesia. This raises an issue with regard to the division of powers between the state and the community. I leave it to the Government to give us technical insight on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u244	So what is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u245	I invite you to withdraw your amendment, Mrs Sanquer, because it is not admissible. Under Organic Law No. 2004-192 of 27 February 2004 on the autonomy of French Polynesia, it is imperative that this provision be taken by French Polynesia. We will, of course, be in contact with the competent authorities, so that these provisions are transposed. We do not have the right, under this bill, to establish a contribution applicable in the territory of French Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u246	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u247	I too am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u248	Are you withdrawing or are you maintaining the amendment, Mrs Sanquer?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u249	I heard your argument, minister, but I would like the exchange to continue. My colleagues will propose another wording when the text is examined in the Senate. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u250	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u251	In order to put an end to the exclusion of French Polynesia from the conventional system which allows pupils in the preparatory classes to the major schools to benefit from university enrolment and equivalences, we request that paragraphs 2 and 3 of the VIII of article L. 612-3 of the National Education Code, as they will result from this bill, be applicable in French Polynesia. Let us recall that this mixed regime is applicable in New Caledonia. It would be desirable for him to be in French Polynesia, in the interests of equality with the other territories of the Republic. The Ordinance of 14 January 2015 on the extension and adaptation of Act No. 2013-660 of 22 July 2013 on higher education and research in the Wallis and Futuna Islands, French Polynesia and New Caledonia provides, in article 11, for the establishment of such a scheme for New Caledonia, and these provisions are also applicable in the overseas communities. In addition, I would point out that the organic law of 27 February 2004 on the autonomy status of French Polynesia provides, in its Article 9, that the assembly of French Polynesia is consulted on the draft ordinances adopted on the basis of Article 74-1 of the Constitution. But the assembly of French Polynesia was not consulted on this order by the competent minister of the time, which I can only regret. The aim of the amendment is therefore to repair an oblivion: it will allow French Polynesia to benefit from the same arrangements as its neighbours and thus to respect real equality in the overseas territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u253	This is again a question relating to the division of powers between the State and the Government of French Polynesia. I would like to hear the Government's opinion before I take a decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u254	So what is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u255	Madam Member, you are right to note that the State is not competent in the same subjects in French Polynesia and New Caledonia: it is competent for university higher education in French Polynesia, whereas it is competent for higher education, without any further clarification, in New Caledonia. However, since the amendment concerns both preparatory classes for large schools, sections of senior technicians and university training, this assembly is also not in a position to make any changes in the matter. As before, I propose that we work to ensure that these provisions are applicable in French Polynesia, as they may be, potentially, in New Caledonia. I invite you to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I will issue an unfavorable opinion because it is not admissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u256	I suppose the position of the committee is the same as that of the Government, Mr. Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u257	Yes, I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn and, failing that, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u258	Are you withdrawing or are you maintaining the amendment, Mrs Sanquer?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u259	I have heard your arguments, Madam Minister, but, in this case, it is not a question of the distribution of competences between French Polynesia and the State: it is you who can extend to French Polynesia the possibility given to students in preparatory classes to the great schools to benefit from a university enrolment. I maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u260	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u261	In order to do so, the Organic Law should be amended, since it specifies that the State is competent for university higher education. This illustrates the fact that it would be better to avoid constantly adding words to legislation, as was done with the word "academic", because the more added to it, the more specific cases are created.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u262	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u263	You can see, through this punctual example, that it is necessary to adapt the laws, because it is very difficult to bring the diversity of situations into a central and monolithic law. The idea is not to dismantle France or to reform for the pleasure of reform, but to ask that a law should be adapted as best as possible to local realities. A law is made to evolve. It must therefore be developed in a relevant way and in a controlled manner. That is why we are very much in favour of increased legal, regulatory and management resources being allocated, at a minimum, to the overseas territories and Corsica – I am not talking about the evolution of the structure of the nation-state in metropolitan France: it is also an important subject, but it is not that of the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u264	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u265	The parenthesis is useful. First, you are right to recall, Madam Minister, that organic law is the organic law. If it is so called, it is not a law like any other. Secondly, everyone obviously agrees that a catch-up effort should be made, so that we can move towards the most complete equality. But be careful not to ask for too much contradictory things, ladies and gentlemen: on the one hand, that there be organic laws and laws à la carte according to the territories; on the other hand, that the law be the same for all. It is therefore necessary to return to the basic principles, in particular the one according to which the Republic is one and indivisible – in the sense of its people, but not necessarily, in any case more now, in the sense of its institutions. For the derogations, if I may say – I would not like to use an inappropriate term – or the particular cases differ considerably from each other. We have just come across a specific example: provisions applicable in the territory of French New Caledonia – I say "French" because it will be at least until the referendum; We will see what will happen at that time – are not in Wallis-et-Futuna, and we wonder why. In this case, we are talking about French Polynesia, whose territory – we should all remember – is as wide as that of Europe in its entirety. It can therefore be understood that the island situation and the distance from Hexagon warrant special measures. However, we should have a framework law, i.e. transposable models, because if we draw up as many special statutes as there are island territories, we will constantly face situations of this nature. You say, Mr Castellani, that we must be able to evolve from one law to another. My dear colleague, with all the friendship I have with you, this idea is a bit unusual: if we have to modify the organic laws as we draft the laws, we will find ourselves in a very special situation with regard to the organization of the territory! Finally, most often, the transposition of the laws voted in this Chamber is subject to the approval of the assembly of the territory in question – I do not think I am mistaken in saying so; It is true, in any case, for French New Caledonia. The mechanism referred to at this stage was in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u266	Please conclude, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u267	Mr Castellani, if you ask the Assembly to change organic laws into ordinary laws, you will have surprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u268	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u269	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure respect for the division of competences between the State and French Polynesia in the field of higher education. Article 6, paragraph 3, of the draft law provides for the extension to French Polynesia of the new provisions introduced by Article 1, which would be tantamount to amending Article L. 683-2 of the Education Code. This extension would have the effect of assigning to the Minister responsible for higher education certain competences which fall within the competence of French Polynesia. If the State is competent in the field of university higher education, the competence in the field of non-university higher education has been transferred to French Polynesia. None of the provisions of the new article L. 612-3 which give the "academic authority" the power to set up and define the selection procedures for sections of senior technicians or to introduce quotas for technological or professional bachelors for access to sections of senior technicians can be extended without adaptation. In order to extend these new provisions to French Polynesia, it is essential to clarify the notion of competent academic authority in French Polynesia when it comes to non-university post-baccalaureate training.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u271	As mentioned above, the State is competent in the field of university higher education in French Polynesia. Consequently, the academic authority cannot lay down rules on places in non-university courses. The amendment seems to me to be a useful clarification. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u273	Mrs Sanquer, there is a divergence of opinion on the scope of the amendment to the penultimate paragraph of Article L. 683-2 of the Education Code. If you think that it is likely to call into question the skills currently exercised by the Vice-President of French Polynesia in the field of non-academic post-baccalaureate training, the Government is prepared to rely on the wisdom of the national representation to remove any concerns on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u274	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u275	This amendment follows the same logic as the previous one and calls for the same comment. Mr Mélenchon, with his encyclopedic knowledge, knows this very well: the idea is not to make as many laws as there are territories. The law is used to establish social, economic or cultural principles and objectives. To achieve these objectives, roads may differ from one territory to another. Some specific territories may therefore adapt laws to achieve the same objectives. This debate is much broader and has many stakes, but we cannot escape it, as the results of the last elections in Corsica show.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u276	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u277	I support Mrs Sanquer's amendment. However, I wish to clarify, without opening the debate on the subject, that New Caledonia has a unique status within the Republic. The Nouméa agreement signed in 1998 by the political formations and the state was constitutionalized: the Congress met in Versailles and decided to introduce the special mechanism that governs us in the Constitution of the French Republic. Of all the ultramarine territories, New Caledonia is now the only one with the right to self-determination. The people of Caledon are sovereign: they have the capacity, if they so decide, to leave the Republic or to remain there. This right is not now open to other parts of the territory of the Republic. We accept the framework laws, if the Parliament considers them relevant, but New Caledonia will in any case continue to take a singular path.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u278	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u279	I am aware that this is not the heart of the matter, but let us take advantage of this debate to clarify the principles. Our colleague from New Caledonia is absolutely right to recall the particular situation in that territory. As the latter enters a somewhat special period, it is important that the comments made here be heard there. No one here intends to challenge the current status and powers of the Territory Congress, however little, and by whatever means. The rest will belong to the Caledonian people – since that is how you named it, even if it was the subject of debate at the time. There is a Caledonian people, distinct from the French people, because we admitted the colonial fact when we signed the agreement. If we had not done so, we would be one people. The situation is different in territories where no one has established that there has been a colonial event. This changes everything because, in this case, the French people are one and indivisible. Mr Castellani, I share your analysis of the situation. The unity and indivisibility of the Republic means those of its people. To achieve the full expression of the sovereignty of the people, we can go through different institutional paths, while being united within the same republican framework. Madam Minister, I would be grateful if you would excuse us from discussing matters that do not directly concern this amendment, but these are topics on which we will have to debate for some time to come. In any case, the result of the elections in Corsica creates a new situation, which forces us to think carefully about it, taking the time of preparation, so as not to be locked in inextricable situations, as happens to neighbours unfortunately less well prepared than we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u280	I have before me an amendment No 29, which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 252 and 253. Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u281	The purpose of this amendment is to establish a conventional arrangement between the Polynesian government, the vice-rector and the president of the university, to ensure that the law is applied in accordance with the statutory organic competences.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u282	I call Mr Polutele to support Amendment No. 252.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u283	If you will allow me, Madam President, I shall at the same time defend sub-amendments 252 and 253. In the same sense of division of competences, the purpose of this sub-amendment is to establish a conventional arrangement between the vice-rector and French Polynesia, in order to determine the procedure for applying Article L. 612-3 of the Code of Education to sections of senior technicians. In the same vein, Subamendment No 253 aims to establish a conventional arrangement between French Polynesia and the vice-rector to adjust the application of the law in accordance with the statutory organic competences.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u284	What is the opinion of the committee on the amendment and the two sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u285	This is an amendment to the previous amendment, which was adopted. It therefore seems to me that Amendment No 29 and Subamendments Nos 252 and 253 could be withdrawn by the authors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u287	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u288	Mrs Sanquer, are you withdrawing your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u289	Yes, Madam President, I am withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u290	I do the same for the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u291	I call Mr Gomès to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u292	The Caledonian peculiarity should be taken into account. Our academic calendar is different from that of Hexagon, since it is subject to the Southern climate. The registration procedure provided for in the bill would be completely registrable for students in our country. The purpose of this amendment is to take into account this particular feature of our hemisphere. The registration procedure must be adapted to the way the university organizes its year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u294	Favourable opinion. It's a useful precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u295	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u296	This amendment should have been corrected because, in its current wording, it would have the effect of adapting the entire national procedure to New Caledonia's academic calendar.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u297	It's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u298	It should be drafted as follows: "For access to higher education in New Caledonia, the pre-registration procedure referred to in article L. 612-3 is adapted". The Government is opposed to the amendment in its current wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u299	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u300	A sub-amendment has been tabled, which Mrs Sanquer may be defending. Perhaps it responds to the minister's concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u301	I am informed that this sub-amendment has been declared inadmissible. I suggest that you suspend the sitting to correct the wording of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u302	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u303	The meeting was resumed. Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor to present an amended version of Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u304	The amended amendment No. 51 is intended to insert the following paragraph after the second paragraph of article L. 684-2 of the Education Code: "For access to higher education in New Caledonia, the pre-registration procedure referred to in article L. 612-3 is adapted in order to comply with the academic calendar specific to New Caledonia. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u305	What is the opinion of the committee now?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u306	That's very favorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u308	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u309	I call Mr Gomès to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u310	Again, it is a question of taking into account the particularities of New Caledonia. In this regard, it seems to us inconceivable that article L. 612-3 could be applied in the manner provided for. Indeed, in New Caledonia, the vice-rector is not Chancellor of universities. It is therefore not the vice-rectorate that controls the universities: control is carried out directly by the Ministry of Higher Education. For this reason, it seems to us necessary that this administration of the second degree, the vice-rectorate, cannot, of authority, without any consultation, at the same time pronounce the enrolment of students and define the maximum capacity to receive the courses, especially since the vice-rectorate of New Caledonia does not have the dedicated service to carry out the necessary analyses and to make the right decisions. That is why we propose to write, through this amendment, that "the vice-rector of New Caledonia must, before declaring the enrolment of a student at the University of New Caledonia or establishing the maximum capacity for the courses of training of this University, obtain the approval of its president".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u312	These two points fall within the competence of the State, and therefore of the Vice-President, on the delegation of the Minister of Higher Education. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u314	The aim of the State is to play its full role as regulator. It is therefore the vice-rector who, by delegation from the Ministry of Higher Education, will declare the enrolment of the students and set the reception capacity. However, as has already been pointed out, it will do so in discussions with all the heads of establishment of the territory concerned. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u315	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u316	I would like to recall the special case of New Caledonia, which has jurisdiction over primary and secondary education, whether public or private. Only higher education has remained in the hands of the State. While public and private primary and public secondary schools are managed, for one part, by the vice-rectorate, the competence of the State is reduced to four areas: programmes – the law giving New Caledonia the capacity to adapt – pedagogical supervision, diplomas, which remain within the competence of the State, and the training of teachers. This is the legal framework within which New Caledonia and the State have jurisdiction. It is not desirable to decide that, in this particular context, the State exercises its jurisdiction in the same manner as it does throughout the territory of the Republic. That is not possible. I said: the vice-rector is not Chancellor of universities and the vice-rectorate has neither the necessary elements nor the dedicated service. I ask you to agree, Madam Minister: as has been the case with the question of the percentage of baccalaureate general and baccalaureate technology in TUDs and TDBs, for which consultation is planned between the vice-rectorate and the university, it would be appropriate to include in the law, in the absence of the president's agreement, at least a consultation on the two points covered by the amendment between the vice-rectorate and the university. This is the minimum to take into account the particular framework within which the State exercises its jurisdiction in New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u317	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u318	Although I am hostile to the bill, we will vote for this amendment defended by our colleague from New Caledonia and Kanaky.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u319	In the Constitution, the name of the territory is "New Caledonia"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u320	Previously, I said "French New Caledonia": it is good to call this territory by all the names suitable for our compatriots on the spot, so as not to frown anyone. You are right to point out that the situation is very special. You would hear me say even more surprising things if we were to talk about primary education. During the debate on the status of New Caledonia, I had been led to endorse the fact that private school investments could be taken over by the State, since they ensured equal access to education in most tribes. I therefore recommend that the Minister and the rapporteur hear the words of the colleague from New Caledonia and Kanaky. It endeavours, on each point, to ensure that its specificity is respected. It seems to me that as we approach the referendum year we have to pay great attention to everything we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u321	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u322	I would like to express the embarrassment of this discussion, which concerns territories in which local authorities have greater powers than elsewhere and where competences are often shared. What bothers me is that on these issues, we were talking about the collaboration between the state and the community without knowing the community's opinion. It would be useful for us to know the relevant one of the Polynesian Minister of Education, who is competent on all these subjects, or of the head of education in New Caledonia. We work in blur, which is not pleasant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u323	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u324	I thank Mr Mélenchon very much for his help in the first part of his answer. On the other hand, with regard to the second part, I would like to remind you, Mr. Member, that the name "New Caledonia" is fixed by the Constitution of the French Republic. New Caledonia has the capacity, if it so decides, to amend it, within the framework of a law of the country which it would adopt by a three-fifths majority. Since this possibility has not been used, I ask you to consider that in the Republic the law applies and that the right today, with regard to the name of that territory, is to call it "New Caledonia".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u325	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u326	Madam Minister, to return to our more prosaic subject, it is in concrete terms the vice-rector who will set the maximum capacity for admission to university courses, whereas he does not have the authority to do so, since he is not Chancellor of universities and he also does not have the dedicated services. It's a matter of common sense. I therefore believe that it is necessary, with regard to the reception capacity in the fields, to lay down at least the principle of consultation between the vice-rectorate and the university. I understand that the word "concertion" appears in speeches, but it is as a principle that it has been included in the texts, with regard to the percentage of general and technological bacs in the IUTs and BTSs. It is important to do the same in order to guide the relationship between the vice-rectorate and the university when it comes to setting the maximum capacity of the fields of study. My amendment could be corrected to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u327	I have before me two amendments containing additional articles after Article 6. I call Mr Polutele to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u328	Madam Minister, this amendment, which is above all an appeal amendment, aims to express the concerns that I have already raised before you with regard to the Wallis-et-Futuna bachelors. The Government must indeed take note of the difficulties these bachelors encounter because they are almost delivered to themselves during the period of time, too long – eight months – which separates them from the school year in the metropolitan area. It is appropriate, Madam Minister, to reflect with the Minister for Overseas Affairs, the President of the University of New Caledonia and that of French Polynesia on solutions to the difficulties faced by these students, by preparing them for this long journey and for the meeting with a new country, which they do not know because they have never travelled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u329	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u330	I understand the problem that you are presenting: because of the time lag in the academic calendar, young Wallisians have, for many months, available time that they could use. We have replied in committee that they have the opportunity to go to New Caledonia, but, as you said at that time, this territory is more than 3000 kilometres away. The minister, whom I have listened carefully, pointed out that a reflection is currently under way on the subject: in addition to the fact that schools in metropolitan France already allow students to start their year in the second semester, the strengthening of modularity, within the framework of the student plan, will open up opportunities for Wallisians to continue their studies. For these reasons, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment for the benefit of the work that the Government will undertake on the subject – for I have no doubt that it will do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u332	I also call for the withdrawal of the amendment, in view of the Government's commitment to work, within the framework of the overseas foundations, on the special situation of the ultramarine universities and their students. In line with the student plan and the baccalaureate training continuum minus three baccalaureate plus three, specific solutions will be proposed. If the amendment were not withdrawn, I would express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u333	Mr President, are you withdrawing your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u334	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u335	I call Mr Gomès to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u336	This amendment seeks to correct an injustice. I know how sensitive our assembly is to the reduction of injustices and inequalities. A figure provided by the University of New Caledonia, particularly surprising, drew my attention: we have only 27 per cent scholarship students. By studying many sources to determine whether this rate is comparable to that of other territories or to the situation of metropolitan areas, I have learned that it is 44 per cent at the national level and that it varies between 50 and 60 per cent in the overseas departments. I therefore wondered what judicial-financial curiosity meant that there were also few scholarship children in New Caledonia. Of course, income ceilings and stock exchange levels are set in relation to the income and cost of living of the metropolis. However, the cost of living overseas, in general, and in New Caledonia and Polynesia in particular, is significantly higher. The latest INSEE study on the subject indicates that the cost of living is 1.7 times higher than that of the metropolis. It therefore seems to me essential to adjust, at least in the French communities in the Pacific, the resource ceilings and the amounts of the grants in relation to the real cost of living and the level of income of these populations. It would be a measure of justice throughout the territory of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u338	I would like to hear the views of the Government before taking a decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u339	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u340	Mr. Gomès, you are quite right to stress the implausibility of the low student scholarship rate at the University of New Caledonia. I don't understand either. This rate is 63% in Réunion, 55% in Martinique, 61% in Guadeloupe, 58% in French Guiana and 65% in Mayotte. I invite you to withdraw your amendment, but we will examine the reasons why the rate of scholarship students in New Caledonia is so low, since it is even lower than the national rate of 38 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u341	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u342	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I accept your proposal to work together on this subject, so that the resource limits and the amounts of the scholarships are reviewed in the light of the objective realities of our country. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u343	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 7. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u344	Article 7 provides that the Government shall submit to Parliament, before 31 October 2020, a report setting out the status of the Act. Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u345	You must be satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u346	But I'm not going to tell you what I'm going to watch closely in three years. Let me stress one point: this report will have to include a serious and documented study of the impact of the individualised courses, the year in which they were completed and the other provisions of the law on the stability of qualifications awarded to diplomas and their inclusion in collective agreements. I ask that this question be studied because many decision-makers come from general education and are therefore not very concerned with the realities of vocational education. In my view, any higher education is a professionalizing education. But graduates of higher vocational education tend to regard their diploma as the result of their donations: they tend to forget the social environment that is concerned with the recognition of the diploma. The report provided for in Article 7 should therefore address this particular issue of qualification and recognition of diplomas in collective agreements. To do this, I propose that you call on the Centre d'études et de recherches sur les qualifications – CEREQ – in Marseille, which will carry out quality analyses at a good price, since we already fund it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u347	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u348	I do not want to lengthen our debates, which have already been very long. I would simply like to congratulate us on the work we have done, because we have been waiting a few years for things to move a little bit at the entrance of our country's higher education system. Article 7 therefore provides for a report – on this point, I regret that Mr Juanico has already left our Chamber, because I wanted to tell him that, for me too, the reports drawn up by Parliament are absolutely indispensable. In addition, there is an essential indicator in my view: the sacrosanct success rate in the first year of licence, which currently varies between 30% and 40%. The report will show whether we are able to move this figure and whether the best orientation of the students we are trying to set up allows us to be more responsible in our daily activities at university.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u349	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u350	I would also like to take advantage of these last comments on Article 7 to point out that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans have repeatedly defended, throughout our debates, amendments calling on the Government to submit reports to Parliament. In this way, we could have had regular, and soon enough after the enactment and implementation of the first measures of the law, insight that would allow us to assess the situation and, if necessary, correct the point. We wanted very precise information on certain points: I therefore hope that they will be included in an exhaustive, detailed and objective manner in the report which will be submitted to us before 31 October 2020. The light sought is on the implementation phases of the new Parcoursup platform, about which some of us have expressed some reservations, as well as on the application of the proposed scheme for the collection of the new student life contribution, which also raises some questions, particularly with regard to the role of the CROUS. We also stressed the need to shed some light on the adequacy of the broad lines of the reform of the guidance system envisaged by the Government, as I understand it, with the modalities of enrolment in the first year of higher education.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u351	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u352	The La République en marche group is very committed to monitoring and evaluating the laws in general, and this law on the guidance and success of students in particular. We are therefore very pleased with Article 7, which provides for the submission of a report and which we owe to our rapporteur. It is necessary for this report to take stock of the innovations contained in this text, such as the new "Parcoursup" platform, the personalized accompaniment schemes, the student life contribution and the year of caesure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u353	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u354	Article 7 is indeed the result of the amendment that I defended in committee to ask the Government to submit to Parliament a full and comprehensive report on the implementation of this future law. This report will form the basis for our work as MPs as part of our mandate to assess the law and monitor public policies. In other words, this report will be a brick in the necessary evaluation and follow-up work that we will carry out and that will obviously be more important. Since this is the last opportunity for me to speak on this text, let me say that I was delighted to be the rapporteur. It was an honor for me. I thank the secretariat of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, which has accompanied me. I would also like to thank all Members, on all sides of the House, for the debates we have had. I believe that we have always sought a discussion on the substance, in the interest of the students and the general interest, even though everyone has obviously defended his personal convictions and his vision of things. In keeping with the commitment of the President of the Republic, the bill that we are going to pass is intended to put an end to the process of drawing lots as soon as next year. This decision was taken urgently, but we took the opportunity to go much further and develop a real policy of guidance, information at high school and customization of teaching modules at university. All these elements are part of the same goal: to make our country's students succeed, at a time when 60% of them fail in the first year of their bachelor's degree and where 20% of students leave the university system each year without a degree, with all the difficulties we know. I am therefore convinced that it is a text of major social progress that we are going to adopt. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on several benches of the UAI group]] Since we are talking about evaluation and monitoring, I think we will be able to see in the coming years the positive effects of this text on the democratisation of access to higher education.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u355	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u356	I would like to say to Mr Mélenchon, to Mrs Le Grip – whose group has indeed asked for many reports – and to all the Members present here that the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education will take every opportunity to evaluate and monitor this law on the guidance and success of students. In six months' time, we will publish a first report on its implementation, and in three years' time, we will prepare an evaluation report that can indeed be based on the report requested of the Government under article 7. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I thank the rapporteur for the quality of his work, as well as the minister and all those involved in the development of this bill. We have taken on our responsibilities – it is our honour – and we will continue to assume them in the coming weeks and months by carrying out our assessment and monitoring work as close as possible to the field and to the actors, who will be extremely solicited. Trust does not exclude control: since we have talked a lot about trust, we will be in the first place to control the proper implementation of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u357	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u358	First of all, I would like to thank through you, Madam Chair, the successive sitting chairs who accompanied us in our consideration of this bill. I would also like to thank, of course, the presidents and rapporteurs of the committees seized of this text, the group presidents, the leaders, all those who participated in the preparatory work, and finally all the Members who contributed to the enrichment of this text by amendments from all the groups. You know that, and I think we are all convinced that better orientation and support for the success of our students are essential. We need more and more young graduates and qualified young people, because diplomas and qualifications protect from unemployment and we want to be able to restore confidence to our young people so that they can find their place in our country as best they can. I thank you all for contributing to this goal, and of course I count on you to be extremely demanding and to inform us of the difficulties that might be encountered,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u359	You can count on us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u360	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] ... so that we can work in confidence, assessing the provisions of this future law and correcting them if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u361	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill. I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that explanations of vote and the vote, by public vote, on the entire bill will be held on Tuesday, 19 December, after questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-14-O1098.u362	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m.: Discussion, in new reading, of the 2018 Finance Bill; Discussion, in new reading, of the public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022. The meeting is adjourned.
