ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution by Mr Richard Ferrand and others to promote the symbols of the European Union (point 364).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u2	Madam Chair, I ask for a five-minute suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u3	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u4	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u5	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u6	In the general debate, Mr. Richard Ferrand has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "it is not ideal, however beautiful it may be, that should not cling to a symbol": it is by these words that the Council of Europe described the importance of the European flag in 1951 in its memorandum. Sixty years later, the People's Republic Group is proposing that you adopt a resolution calling on the Government to promote European symbols, and in particular Europe Day. This initiative is of particular importance to us. We all recognize ourselves as heirs to the Enlightenment and Revolution, Rousseau and Voltaire, Robespierre and Danton...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u9	...but we are as much from Monnet and Schuman, De Gasperi and Spaak, Adenauer and all those who, after the night, chose to make the uncertain dawn a hope, a common good. This common good, as the President of the Republic said in his speech to the Sorbonne, is the European Union. Europe is what brings us together beyond our nations, our languages and our particularities. It reminds us that we have a common identity, expressed in our commitment to humanism, democracy and freedoms. Because we have known in Europe, in the 20th century, what man can do worse, because the memory of dictatorships is still fresh in our memories, we know the importance of these values. Europe has also enabled us to achieve prosperity. The British doubted it, but already worry about the first signs of shortness of breath in their economy. They are now putting all their forces in the negotiations to keep access to the common market as favourable as possible, and some even hope that Brexit will not take place. In a context of distrust, the presidential election last May, like the legislative elections that followed, reminded us of one thing: despite all the difficulties, the French and French have brought to power a majority who believes in Europe and its institutions, and who wishes to improve it always without ever denying it. I can only remind you again: alone, we are only 67 million French; Together, we are 511 million Europeans and, above all, the world's largest economy. I want us to do an act of trust together today. To adopt this resolution is to show that we have confidence in the future of Europe and in the capacity of the President of the Republic and the Government to make the European project fairer, more democratic and more progressive. The resolute action of the President of the Republic is already bearing fruit: when some make Europe an ungovernable ship – some would even say a kind of Titanic – it shows that through conviction, will and negotiation it is possible to make the necessary changes. The agreement on the revision of the posted workers directive demonstrates this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u10	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u11	Other battles await us, such as that of a new budgetary framework, a capacity for autonomous action in defence, a strengthening of the Europe of knowledge and innovation and a Europe that controls its borders while showing humanity – in short, a united, sovereign and democratic Europe. It is in order to give substance to the European project that the President of the Republic has wished France to join in the declaration No 52 annexed to the Treaty of Lisbon, which recognizes the symbols of the European Union, and it is this same will that inspires us today. But these struggles can only be won if the President of the Republic is not alone in carrying them out. That is why national representation must accompany it and take its full place. By this resolution, we affirm and accept our support for the European project. With this resolution, we call on the Government to implement the action of the President of the Republic and ours in this recognition of the symbols of the European Union. European symbols make tangible what is impalpable. They embody membership of the European Union. Each of them constitutes a part of our common project: the twelve stars in the circle of the flag portray the union of our peoples, the Ode to Joy exhorts fraternity and peace, and our motto, "Unie dans la diversité", invites us to go beyond the borders of the nations and the differences of the peoples, while the Day of Europe evokes the memory of the declaration of 9 May 1950 by the French Foreign Minister, Robert Schuman, which is the founding act of the process of building Europe. Some will tell me: why waste time on symbols? Does the spread of the flag to the twelve stars make us more or less European? Is Europe more united because it sings the Hymn to joy? [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, our societies need benchmarks. They are built with traditions, rites and symbols: the Greeks used sacrifices, the kings of France were sacrificing themselves, the marriage is almost universally shared, we break – in Brittany as elsewhere – bottles of champagne on boats before they take the sea and, everywhere in France, we cut ribbons to inaugurate our most beautiful achievements. Symbols are part of these essential landmarks. They make it possible to become aware of our membership and to unite around a project. Symbols cannot substitute for action, but they illustrate its meaning. The collective ambition on which we were elected is European. It is not that of the withdrawal, the refusal to share, or even the mistrust of the other. The political recomposition that we have been witnessing since last May clearly divides those who think that we Europeans share a common future and those nationalists who think that we would be better alone. In the National Assembly, the European flag has been pavouring alongside the French flag since 2008. Installed to symbolise the French presidency of the European Union, its continued existence for almost ten years underscores the commitment of Members to the European project. However, for the first time in October 2017, a political group came to contest this presence in the Chamber. But this is probably the last of the findings of these old and new detractors of Europe, who find themselves in sometimes surprising alliances of circumstances. They want to overthrow the table, destroy everything to rebuild everything, as if nothing was easier. Do they remember that it took more than half a century to decide to bind our destiny? That it took the Versailles Congress, the lost illusions of Aristide Briand and Frank Kellogg, millions of dead to finally achieve it? That it was necessary for founding fathers, themselves bloody in their flesh, to choose to talk and unite after the barbarity that had just taken everything away? Finally, do they not know that every time we wanted to see the world by our only glance, we have always seen it narrower, and in truth darker? By rejecting Europe, they propose to lock themselves in the national borders. Soon it will be within their respective regional boundaries. In the end, perhaps it will remain only the city or the neighbourhood to build this solidarity which they call for of their wishes but which they refuse to many, singularly to others. Every time we deconstructed, we fought war: to all those who doubt it, I would like to recall François Mitterrand's words: "Nationalism is war. (Applause from the REM panel)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u12	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u13	The whole history and the whole consciousness of the great men who preceded us in these walls, here and within our republican institutions, fit into these symbols. They represent the certainty that the European project is being built, adapted and transformed with the energy of those who believe in it and the conviction of those who commit themselves. It is in order to translate the European ambition that the French have entrusted us, to reaffirm our pride in being one of the founding states of this project that has given us peace, to carry the values of humanism and progress that Europe must embody, that national representation must invite the Government – I urge you to do so! – to take all necessary measures to promote European symbols and give a special shine to Europe Day on 9 May. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this resolution. (Mrs. Members of the REM Group stand up and applaud at length. – Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LC groups.)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u14	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u15	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as Goethe said: "Everything that passes is just a symbol. It is not annoyance to wish to challenge the symbols, because the symbol creates meaning, the symbol appears as a visible reality, the symbol testifies to belonging to a community of destiny. Symbols are an integral part of our democracy and our Republic. It is France's sovereign choice to build Europe with its symbols, with its project and with the political will characterising the construction of the European Union, that the symbol has translated into concrete reality. These symbols are numerous. There are five of them at European level: the flag, the anthem, the motto – "united in diversity" – the euro and the famous European Day. I would like to say to those who today hold the French flag in the Chamber that it is not because we are wearing the European flag here in this House that the French flag disappears. On the contrary, we can carry both French hope and European hope. (Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups.) I would like to say to Mrs Le Pen that she would have done better to bring France's voice to the European Parliament: it would have been much more useful than bringing small flags here in the Chamber. (Same movements.)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u16	I did it in your absence!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u17	I do not dislike Mr Mélenchon and his friends, but I am one of those who prefers the European flag to the red flag. I will also tell you very clearly that, unfortunately, their visions sometimes resemble a pure and simple return to the nationalism of yesteryear, sprinkled with a malady mistrust of Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u18	Sick? They've invaded us four times!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u19	Yet it is the Consultative Assembly of the Council of Europe that is looking at the creation of symbols to represent the "spiritual and moral values that are the common heritage of the peoples that make up it". I, who was born in 1980, remember the image of the fall of the Berlin Wall, which led my political commitment. This has built our European idea and identity. For this reason, I support the proposal of the President of the Republic to join the 16 signatory countries to Declaration No 52 annexed to the Lisbon Treaty, as I support this motion for a resolution to promote the symbols of the European Union. (Applause from several benches of the REM and MODEM groups.)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u20	He's not gonna be happy, Mr. Wauquiez!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u21	But I also want to make it very clear that if the symbols are important, they are by no means sufficient. Beyond this resolution, beyond Declaration No 52, the challenge is first and foremost to restore meaning to Europe. Unfortunately, Europe is the victim of this paradox: on the one hand, the ever-increasing rejection of the European institutions and, on the other, an ever-increasing need for this Europe. We need to rethink Europe, rethink it as a power Europe, first and foremost, to count in the concert of nations and to be able to act. Europe will also have to be concrete in terms of defence policy, industrial policy and agricultural policy; It must be able to protect the interests of the French, but also of all Europeans. Europe will have to rethink not only its nature, but also how it works. Yes, it is a matter for us to build the European identity and, beyond that, to promote a Europe which, at last, finds what it should never have ceased to be: a Europe at the service of the peoples of Europe. Let us never forget that Europe was built on a triptych: "bread, peace and freedom". It has brought peace to the peoples of Europe, food independence and freedom to all our peoples. We need to think that and act. Madam Minister, we invite you, beyond the resolutions, as important as they are, beyond the symbols, as important as they are, to take on the European project with arms and to restore the link of trust between Europe and the French. (Applause from several benches of the LR, REM, MODEM and LC groups)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u22	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u23	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is sadly unusual that in 2005 our leaders at the time did not associate themselves with Declaration No. 52 recognizing the signs, symbols and emblems of a European Union with which they claimed to remain associated, but with their mouths, ears and eyes stubbornly closed. We shall, of course, vote on the resolution...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u25	...because we want to put an end to this schizophrenic attitude. We will vote for this text, because we welcome the great ambitions put forward on behalf of France by President Macron and, at his call, we want to end the implicit Europe, the unconvinced Europe, the shameful and clandestine Europe of the last twenty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u26	Finally, one who advances with an open face!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u27	We will vote for this resolution, but we see the recognition of the symbols of the European Union as a far more than an end. We see them as a specification to be fulfilled, as a road map to be written, as a promise to be kept. The various symbols question us about the ultimate meaning of the adventure we are experiencing. They force us to ask ourselves the three central questions that we obstinately refuse to answer for nearly seventy years: who are we really, we who pretend to unite, so distinguish ourselves? What do we want to do together and continue to do separately in our historic states? What is the nature of the pact that is supposed to unite us, as the motto says, "in diversity"? In short, three simple, decisive, irrefutable questions: who? What? How?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u28	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u29	First question: who? Who are we, we who have been trying for seventy years to recognize one another, by groping, blindfolded in this strange part of geopolitical colin-maillard? Let us leave the flag for a moment, this circle of twelve stars illuminating a night of Azure. The Christian imprint of this symbolism, both apostolic and Marian, is hardly in doubt. ("Ah! » and applause on the benches of the FI group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u30	Thank you, Mr Bourlanges!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u31	Does it justify Mr Mélenchon's vehement indignation? No need to refer to the apostles to see the number twelve as a symbol of universality: the months of the year, Hercules' work and the signs of the zodiac are enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u32	The number of Members of Parliament on the road to the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u33	For once you're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u34	Let us see, on the other hand, as the great Jacques Le Goff invited us to do, beyond the bust of apparent ruptures, the profound continuity between the Christian distinction of the three orders, spiritual, intellectual and temporal, and what has become, in a widely secularized society, the current requirement of secularism. Ladies and gentlemen, the European issues bring us together because they are the product of an indivisible heritage, of a treasure common to those who believe in heaven and those who do not believe in it. Whether we are liberals, socialists, Christian Democrats or Gaullists, we know that Europe unites us by what is best in each of us: the peace preferred to war, the reason preferred to passions, the right preferred to strength, the respect of the other preferred to humiliation, the freedom to believe, to think, to act, to create and to love. The irreplaceable contribution of Europe to the world, of course, is the reconciliation of personal freedom and public solidarity. Much more, in the face of the new barbarities and the return of unprecedented gravism threats, we feel deep inside ourselves that it is on this legacy that we will lose or win the game. It is here, and nowhere else, that our future is being played out. Second question: what? What do we want to do together and continue to do separately? Here again, the Protocol helps us to formalise the question, which states that the flag of Europe will be placed next to the national flag. This "side-by-side" is admirable: it is a call for subsidiarity. It invites us to make this concept not the usual neo-Pujadist jappement but, more authentically, the necessary effort of reflection on rational sharing of skills. Is it anything else, this "beside" there, than the spatialized version of the macronian "at the same time"? Is it not the simple, but revolutionary idea that sovereignty should now be exercised simultaneously on several levels? Third question: how? "Unity in diversity" tells us the motto. What we are told by currencies and symbols is precisely what Mr Mélenchon and the Jacobin ultras deny, namely that a democratic community involving several peoples is both necessary and possible. Yes, Mr Mélenchon, a democratic community involving several peoples is necessary if the relevant framework for the decision to be taken goes beyond the borders of a State. As our greatest constitutionalist, Georges Vedel, once observed in a now classic article, "democracy is the way adult societies are organised, not just national societies". The European Union has the same right as the nations that make up it to democracy, i.e. the rule of law, the rooting of universal suffrage, respect for minorities and the rejection of unanimitarian blockage; nations do not have a monopoly on freedom and citizen power. Yes, Mr Mélenchon, a democracy involving several peoples, a "demoïcracy", in a way, is not only necessary, but also possible, on the condition of building an ad hoc institutional model, a model that favours compromise over confrontation, negotiation over confrontation, inclusion on exclusion. Such a model, which owes more to Montesquieu than to Rousseau, and which challenges us because it does not correspond to our habits...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u35	You're unmasking yourself, my dear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u36	Yes, I'm out of my sight! I unmasked myself and honour myself to respect the memory of Rousseau and Montesquieu. Such a model, I said, which owes more to Montesquieu than to Rousseau, presupposes both the plurality of distinct legitimate powers rooted in universal suffrage and the use of qualified majorities that unite rather than simple majorities that oppose or veto rights that paralyze.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u37	2005!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] 2005? Remember that if there had not been the Treaty of Lisbon, there would be no Brexit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u39	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u40	You say that the "no" has not been taken into account, but the possibility of Brexit has been introduced. Stop lying about 2005!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u41	It is the extreme center that expresses itself!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u42	In conclusion, I would like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen, what is essential to me in this debate. These symbols of European integration require us to understand that what matters above all in our relationship with Europe is not the arithmetic of benefits and costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u43	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u44	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This is not the calculation of what we claim to give to and receive from Europe. Our relationship with Europe, like our relationship with France and humanity, is a matter not of distribution and remuneration, but of identity. Europe, its history, its present, its future, is what we are, not what we have. We belong to him as much as it belongs to us. The first function of recognizing the symbols of European integration is to remind us that we are not just in Europe, but we are from Europe, as we are from France and the world. [[Most MEPs in the REM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud at length]] Let me give you a simple advice in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: when you think of Europe, know that you think of what you are, not what you have. When we talk about Europe, let us never mislead an auxiliary!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u45	Bad thought, but well said! Respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u46	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u47	The rooster is the symbol of France, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u48	Here blows the spirit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u49	And the symbol of heaviness, what is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u50	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for us, the destiny of Europe, our destiny, is a matter not of symbols, but of content. The problem is not so much knowing where to plant a flag, but what it says, what it represents. What symbolic and political meaning does it have for the peoples of Europe? We believe in the strength of symbols when they bear a common reality, as is the case with our hymn, Marseillaise, our effigy, Marianne, and our motto, "freedom, equality, fraternity", which constantly reminds us that without equality or fraternity, there is no generalized freedom. These symbols, to which we can add the tricolor flag, place our republican regime in the path of the Revolution of 1789. We Communist deputies fully assume this political heritage and are proud of these symbols, which are the metaphor of our common identity in line with revolutionary ideals, and of our political project based on the Republic and democracy. Identity and the political project: this is what the symbols underlie. And this is the real debate. We feel European and we do not have a lesson from Europe to receive, especially when Europe has the weakness to want to teach itself from a flag. We are the children of a political family that opposed the two world wars that bleed the peoples and nations of the continent white while the silver barons prospered. We are of a family that has constantly built bridges between cultures, knowledge, peoples and nations, a family that considers that because of its history, its culture, its values, but also the interests of its people, Europe will be social or not. We are a family that believes that the idea of Europe must and must continue, but not under the yoke of private interests. The problem of Europe is therefore very much about its political project. To borrow this formula from a famous premonitory dialogue by Michel Audiard, declared here at this rostrum: "I will not ask you to forget what you are, by repelling this Europe of forges masters and oil companies, this Europe of fortune against that of labour, of heavy industry against that of peace. I'll just explain to you how the course you're following is against the interest of the people. You acknowledged the text proclaimed by Jean Gabin in The President. Centuries of a turbulent history, often dramatic, sometimes exhilarating, have forged nations based on the will of the peoples present on the same continent. All felt European and all expressed a European thought. Yet, despite many terrible attempts, neither the kings nor the emperors have been able to lay the foundations for a political Europe. They're the people. Europe is democratic. All its states are democratic, because its nations have conquered democracy. The flag of the Union therefore symbolises both the European identity, which we embrace, and its political project, that of a neoliberal and technocratic Europe which is more like a "Union of European Markets" than a union of peoples. We reject this Europe of markets. It is a Europe whose peoples have detached themselves because they have separated themselves from them. Yet, how beautiful the idea of Europe is! This position, our position, has already been strongly expressed in the 2005 referendum on the European Constitution, a text that enshrined these famous symbols of the Union by giving them a meaning that the French people have rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u51	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u52	By voting "no" at almost 55%, the French went against the interests of a few. It was therefore necessary to re-establish things, and it was the Merkel-Sarkozy couple who took over the principles and rules of the European Constitution to include them in the Treaty of Lisbon now in force. Following the 2008 crisis, after which the European Union left the exsangue peoples financially exhausted, Europeans witnessed the crucifixion of the Greek people, who had dared to challenge Europe. But not everyone loses in this case: the European Central Bank has won €7.8 billion this year thanks to the Greek Treasury bills it has held since 2012. Indeed, we remain convinced that it is not by drinking the neoliberal potion until the lie that we will save the Union, and even less that we will be saved from the nationalist and xenophobic peril that can be expressed here and there. There is no question of rethinking the construction of Europe by relying on the fear of the other. Nationalism is a dead end for European peoples and is always the brutal ally of decomplexed capitalism as soon as it comes to power. Today, the peoples of Europe expect acts of solidarity in view of the economic and social difficulties they face. If today's Union had a motto, it would be "austerity, competitiveness, insecurity". Let us suggest "protection, peace, justice and solidarity", because Europe cannot be achieved without putting people first. We communists believe in a re-founding of Europe, which would be enshrined in a genuine European social treaty with the values of justice, freedom and equality, on which protective standards would be based for workers, young people, the elderly, the disabled and the planet. We have been defending the solutions for a long time. First of all, it is a matter of destroying the neoliberal dogma of the Treaty on Stability, as we proposed by jointly tabling a proposal for a European resolution with the Die Linke Group in the Bundestag as early as 2011. The golden rule, in particular the 3% of GDP deficit limits and 60% of public debt limits, undermines any policy of progressive recovery, and any hope for people to regain their share of wealth. The fight against tax evasion will be the cornerstone of this project, since it will enable European states to regain some financial vigour. Nearly 1000 billion euros per year evaporate in Europe. Whether it is legal or illegal, tax evasion is a scourge. How can I let all this money go with as much phlegm as Mr. Juncker? An ambitious European Treaty would enable the European Central Bank to renegotiate sovereign debts and reinvigorate investment. The fourth act for a new Europe would be to put an end to the trade treaties negotiated in the utmost secrecy, such as CETA – the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union – and which sacrifice the peoples and the planet on the altar of the profit of the multinationals. Even the commission in charge of assessing the expected impact of the entry into force of the CETA set up by the Government could not do anything other than criticize this agreement, the economic benefits of which will be derisory. A Government action plan was needed to implement it. If we do not allow the French people to speak on this issue, then it will be our responsibility to reject this agreement. The posted workers directive will also have to be thoroughly reviewed in order to be no longer the preferred instrument of social dumping for European companies. I was among the first to say this in this gallery as early as 2009. Once these treaties have been broken down, the next step will be to create together a harmonisation from the top of the working conditions of employees and a social and environmental protection of the highest requirement for all. Let us draw inspiration from the French jewels to breathe new life into this project: pension by distribution, social security, the expression of cultures and their respect. Can the European Union not, in support of progressive standards, impose its values on multinationals through its internal market? Finally, to sustain the European project, it will be necessary to strengthen its place on the international and diplomatic scene. It has been too long since the European Union was invisible and weak in this respect. The Union is not at the service of peace: it remains blocked in the endless Franco-German tergiversations. The management of the migrant crisis is a terrible example. By pushing them back to the Mediterranean and Libya, where they are sometimes sold as slaves and very often abused, the European Union has shown an inhuman face that no one here can be proud of. The European Union must also be at the forefront of the fight against international inequalities. To that end, it should be the most powerful ally of the United Nations and respect each resolution, starting with those on the full recognition of the Palestinian State, on the organization of a referendum in Western Sahara and on the Comoros. When some say "Defence Europe", I want to answer them "Europe of diplomacy and peace"! We Communist Members commit ourselves to responding to this popular will because we prefer to convince rather than impose. That is why we will vote against this motion for a resolution inspired by political calculations. That for the peoples and citizens of Europe the hymn to joy becomes truly the hymn of joy in the construction of Europe; Therefore, the Union flag will be able to float proudly alongside the French flag.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u53	Lajoinie!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u54	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is rare to have to debate a motion for a resolution on symbols, which are here the symbols of an association of states, Europe. This resolution contains a single article, the sole purpose of which is to encourage measures to promote the symbols of Europe, in particular in the context of Europe Day, in a manner complementary to national symbols. My remarks will focus on two elements. Symbols are useful for a European spirit, but they are not enough to create a common identity. Europe needs identifiable public policies that can be appropriated by everyone and that are federated. According to the dictionary, a symbol is "a material object or a formula used as a recognition mark". More precisely, according to its etymology, Greek – of which I appreciate the entire range here – the symbol is an object cut in two whose parts, gathered as a result of a quest, allow its holders to recognize themselves. The symbols of Europe are therefore not intended to divide, but to seek what unites and unites. Many people today are wondering what Europe is like. Defining Europe territorially is perilous. Are we at the end of Asia or is Asia a part of Europe? Is Europe a legal entity establishing a new legal order? For States and lawyers, certainly; for the citizens, the thing is a little less sure. Europe is still too often a black box whose operation and rules are not known.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u56	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u57	Is Europe then a culture? In Greek mythology, Zeus disguises himself as a white bull to seduce Europe, the daughter of a king. The name itself comes from the terms "euris", broad, and "ops", the eyes. It therefore designates a land, a vision and a hope. If there is no general territorial or cultural definition of Europe, there is a national of "geography by genres of life" with a political meaning. As Jacques Bancel, a prominent geographer, wrote in Geography and Politics in 1936, geography, if it can be put at the service of a policy, must above all account for the genres of life. As such, Europe is an area of civilization composed of several ways of life. It is also a political project that cannot be reduced to an institutional project. Thus, the symbols of the flag of twelve stars of gold on a blue background forming a circle as a sign of union, the Ode to Joy, the Day of Europe and the euro are elements of recognition and emerge from a common practice, making them estimable. They are not imposed by supranational law. To ignore them or to ban them is to deny a reality. It is said that the Red Guards, anxious to embody the new orientation of the Chinese Cultural Revolution, destroyed all public symbols referring to the past – considered reactionary – to replace them with revolutionary denominations. In doing so, they merely obeyed a precept of Confucianism according to which the right name derives the right reality. Thus, believing that they were breaking up, they strengthened the tradition. Unfortunately, symbols are not enough to create a common identity or spontaneous and immediate recognition of shared lifestyles. Thus, it is clear that symbols are part of a European spirit, but not sufficient to define it. Indeed, the existing identity has a significant impact on how citizens perceive it. As I recalled here a few weeks ago, a study published in June 2017 shows that only 34% of European citizens feel that they benefit from their country's membership of the European Union. As for the elites, they estimate that the Union should not go any further at 60%. It is therefore necessary to accept that our citizens recognize several identities and express them: French, European, citizen with European or extra-European origins. The symbol of a common spirit must also be embodied in our public policies. Europe is still too often, in the eyes of the citizens of its Member States, a means whose purpose they do not see. In 2017, 20 million people suffered from unemployment in the euro area, not to mention those living in precarious conditions. More than 110 million people are at risk of social exclusion in a European Union of 27, exposed to an increased risk of poverty and extreme material deprivation or forming households deprived of access to the labour market. More than 15 per cent of young people between the ages of 18 and 24 have left the school system and are neither in employment nor in training. Real life shows that extreme austerity programs have been an economic countersense. In these circumstances, the limits of the national welfare state are often apprehended with fear. To remedy this, it is often suggested to snuggle more. Clearly, European society as a whole, including its eastern and Balkan part, is crossed by two major opposing but sometimes intertwining cultural currents: on the one hand, a current characterized by exacerbated introversion and a suspicious attitude towards innovation, without a long-term project; On the other hand, a current for which openness outwards is a chance for integration but also for recognition of its specificity, which it makes a long-term project. Progressives must draw from this observation elements of method. On the one hand, it is necessary to promote Europe which innovates, manufactures and employs while working in Europe of general interest, perceived as a gathering factor and based on culture and school as well as on scientific and medical research. For example, why not create a first major European public service for higher education? On the other hand, the difference must be valued as complementarity and not as an a priori obstacle. Finally, with regard to our relations with the other Member States, we must always consider that there is a culture of openness in them, even if it is not dominant. I will conclude with a more personal statement. French and Greek, I have very regular contacts with my family, my friends and Greek officials. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, the debate here is not so much about European symbols as about the ability of European policy to bring the Greeks out of recession and to restore European prosperity and live better on a daily basis!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u58	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u59	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Symbols are useful if they do not remove anything and replace what gathers. Members of our group will vote for the motion for a resolution. They also intend to ensure that the major European subjects progress for all and bring together more families, young people and citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Symbols are necessary to involve all citizens and get their participation. Public policies must be made the symbol of a popular Europe. It is the responsibility of the national parliaments to do this. Our work is important!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u60	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u61	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many fine speakers have followed this rostrum to address this very interesting and important subject. But please, let us guard against blackmail, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! The only alternative you seem to be proposing would therefore be between on the one hand, the most brutal nationalism, and on the other, your European Union, which we could never discuss! But the choice is not between xenophobia and the liberal market! There is an important issue here. Let's not confuse the sacred and the religious! To debate symbols is not a symbolic matter, if one means that it would be anecdotal. This is a highly political matter. By definition, symbolicism is full of meaning, especially if it is of a political nature. We all know that, and this has been pointed out quite brilliantly by some speakers, in particular Jean-Louis Bourlanges. We all know, we who have been candidates, that choosing a slogan, a poster color or the title of a leaflet is not easy. A word, a color: aesthetics always reveal underlying ideas. In the end, this debate is perhaps a tribute to our group, whose members – including our President, Jean-Luc Mélenchon – have called into question the presence of the European flag in this House as soon as they enter the Bourbon Palace. This one is not self-evident: it has not always been there! We defended at the beginning of October, in vain, an amendment to ensure that only the French tricolor flag and that of the United Nations were planted in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u62	Why from the UN?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u63	[[Rires on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You have rejected this amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. However, this is a real subject. I want to point out that the President of the Republic himself, Emmanuel Macron, paid tribute to us for the outcome of this vote. Don't laugh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u64	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u65	Yes! Since then, the President of the Republic and his Government have consistently defended the symbolism of the Community. That is even the subject of the motion for a resolution that we are debating this evening. I assure you on behalf of our group, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: we are very honoured to have raised this motion for a presidential resolution! Nevertheless, the President of the Republic has tangled his brushes a bit! In October, the Head of State addressed a letter to the President of the European Council reaffirming France's commitment to European symbols, including the star flag. But he doesn't have the right! This letter is based on a form of illegitimacy, which justifies the presentation of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u66	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u67	Indeed, the President of the Republic omitted Declaration No. 52. Deciding on the symbols of our country is not the responsibility of the President of the Republic, who disregards the principle of separation of powers, according to which it is incumbent on the people themselves and their representatives in Parliament to decide such matters. In order to remedy this early and unfounded, even illegitimate, announcement, a sudden agitation took hold of the Elysée in order to sit and legitimize this will. Consignee has therefore been given to the parliamentary majority – do not misunderstand my remarks, ladies and gentlemen! – to table a motion for a resolution aimed at valuing the symbols of the Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u68	That's not true! No instructions, but a will!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u69	Of course, Mr. President! I had the elegance to let you express yourself, let me go to the end of my speech! So this is the subject of our debate tonight. If it has the merit of being there, I regret, however, that it is based on a rather ill-prepared motion for a resolution, Mr Ferrand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u70	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u71	You are calling for texts that are at best ignorant and at worst reject European symbolism as legislative expectations. For example, you refer to Article 16 of the Decree of 13 September 1989 on public ceremonies, precedence, civil and military honours, which does not mention the European flag or anthem once. The circular of 4 May 1963, which you also call as a legislative expectation, states that "the tricolor flag remains the only emblem that should be displayed on public buildings for the celebration of national holidays".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u72	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u73	I'm not quoting them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u74	You then witness article 2 of the Constitution, obliviously forgetting that it clearly affirms that the principle of the French Republic is the "government of the people, by the people and for the people"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u75	You misread the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u76	So why do you want to keep the people away from choosing the symbols that are supposed to represent them? That is the root of the problem! You are forgetting one detail: on 29 May 2005, to the question "Do you approve the bill that authorizes the ratification of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe? The French clearly replied "no" to almost 55%! That is why Nicolas Sarkozy, at the time of the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, set aside the issue of the symbols of Europe in Declaration No. 52. All this, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you cannot ignore it! Declaration 52 states that "the flag representing a circle of twelve golden stars on a blue background, the anthem drawn from "The Ode to Joy" of the Ninth symphony of Ludwig van Beethoven, the motto "United in Diversity", the euro as the currency of the European Union and the Day of Europe on 9 May..."
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u77	And we're proud of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u78	All right! You put these provisions to the vote of the French, they said no! You cannot rule out what is fundamental for republicans: the sovereign people! [[Claims on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We are discussing symbols that the French people have largely rejected every time they have been able to express themselves on them! Suffer that he rejected them widely! Who are we to decide that it goes otherwise in the place of our fellow citizens? Before being rejected, this famous treaty had been the subject of much debate, particularly at European level. He recognized the legacy of the Enlightenment and excluded all religious references, but the governments of countries such as Poland and Germany, supported by Mrs Merkel in particular, fought to make reference to Europe's Christian heritage. The government of France – who was right – has always opposed it. This refusal, it seems to me, must remain our course of action. I come to another point of my demonstration: secularism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u80	[[Exclaims on the MODEM benches]] We have already mentioned this in the debate that was initiated a month ago by the amendment that I referred to earlier. Adopting a flag directly inspired by a Marian apparition does not seem to us to conform to the values inherited from the Enlightenment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u81	And the white of the French flag doesn't bother you?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u82	We defend them first, because it is a matter of defending secularism! Let's go back a little further down the line of history. 187 years ago, day to day, November 27, 1830 – agree, colleagues, that the date is well chosen! –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u83	It's a miracle!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u84	... Catherine Labouré saw – according to her words – the Virgin Mary, in the middle of evening prayer, in the chapel of the convent of the Sisters of Charity. She would then have been ordered to have a medal struck, one of which depicts Mary surrounded by twelve stars. Here we are! 120 years later, when the European Council sought a flag, this medallion inspired Arsène Heitz who drew twelve golden stars on a blue background! [[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] Preferred to stars arranged according to the location of the capitals of the member countries of the time, also preferred to fifteen stars arranged in circles – because Germany did not want the Saar to be represented –, these twelve golden stars forming a circle on a blue background were adopted as a flag by the European Council on 8 December 1955. [[Same movements]] It's history, ladies and gentlemen, and the facts are stubborn! Let's note that this date matches – coincidence? – at the feast of the Immaculate Conception. It is therefore, in particular, because he is in charge of this religious symbol, that we reject this flag. We do not want religion to interfere in any way with public life. Our institutions, symbols, laws and regulations must be closed to religious symbols. This secularism is necessary, however, both for believers in different religions and for those who do not believe. It allows everyone to freely practice his or her religious beliefs or to live his or her atheism without anyone coming to oppose it. Colleagues, adopting a flag of Christian inspiration would be tantamount to bringing a religion into a place where neither it nor others should enter. We reject it, not because we would be opposed to the churches or their faithful, but because we intend to protect the place given to them by the Republic and whose scope was precisely reflected in order to allow the emancipation of everyone, without hindering anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u85	What you refuse is Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u86	Now I come to another symbol. The European Union has chosen the motto "United in diversity", In variatate concordia. A nice phrase. But what diversity are we talking about? Social diversity, between rich and poor countries? Tax diversity, between states that tax dividends and those that encourage them? The diversity of rules, which allow for what is forbidden elsewhere? We fear that Europe's only single market – a single market, with competition rules common to all – will prevail today. In this respect, you will understand, we are not in favour of uniqueness in diversity. On the contrary, we are in favour of social harmonisation, tax harmonisation and any other harmonisation which will allow the development of the European Community to be levelled out. That is the Union we are calling for, we in France are insoubted! The motto of Republican France prefigures a uniqueness based on similar living conditions. It proclaims equality in law and cannot be satisfied with differential treatment of one or the other, or with any accommodation with inequalities. "Freedom, Equality, Fraternity": this is a message that we owe to Maximilian Robespierre! Yeah, he invented that motto...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u88	Here we go! The masks are falling!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u89	... and on this occasion clearly affirmed ideals of emancipation. It is not the ambiguities of the European flag that are associated with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u90	We are obliged to join the Supreme Being, it is abominable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We must end the European treaties and build a new project aimed at social emancipation with respect for the environment. Democracy must be restored and peace must be achieved, not only within our borders, but throughout the world. We say "no" to your motion for a resolution, because it omits one fundamental thing: the sovereign people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u92	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u93	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while the wind was still blowing on the embers of a world destroyed by war, hatred and selfishness, its shivering secretly said the will of the peoples to build peace.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u94	It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u95	The European flag is the standard of a tremendous ambition that, on our old continent, we have called "Progress". It is the heaven of a civilization under which flow and flow still those who cherish freedom and put man at the centre of the world. Yes, the European flag is more than a symbol. He speaks in twenty-four languages of the universal values of France and has all his place, to the right of the French flag, at the heart of our assembly. This motion for a resolution will make it possible to assert this forcefully. It will also make it possible to highlight our group's deep and long-standing commitment to the European project. I know that the exchanges that we will have tonight prefigure what will be one of the most fundamental debates of our time, a debate that transcends partisan divides, a debate that we will have in the next European elections in 2019, and that we will continue to have in the coming decades. This debate is about France's membership of Europe, about the relevance of the European project itself. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is that of France's place in the world of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u97	The stakes are such that today it opposes two camps, and only two camps: on the one hand, Europhobes and Eurosceptics of all kinds, whose conceptions of Europe are furiously alike. This camp is yours, Mr. Mélenchon; It's yours, too, Mrs. Le Pen. We cultivate fears there, we flatter the nationalist feeling of wounded peoples and we cling to the glamours which, of all time, have dispossessed the countries of control of their destiny. In the face of this camp, which often confuses sovereignty and isolation, openness and submission, in the face of this camp, which believes that the borders of the old world are the only and only response to the emergence of a new world, to the digital giants, to the climate refugees or to Daesh, there is France strong of its membership of Europe that challenges the future. France, together with Europe, is facing the emergence of a new order, the contours of which are still unknown at all speed. There is European France, benevolent, open to the world and its multiple horizons, as strong in dialogue as it is rooted in its history and values. Yes, there is France able to lead the way in Europe, to try, to brave; a France ready to surprise the world, over and over again. For the group to which I belong, the choice is clear: we are European. Therefore, without further delay, I say to you: we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. I have only one regret, Mr Ferrand: that you did not associate our parliamentary group with your approach. We will vote for this motion for a resolution because it will provide a clear answer to a very bad controversy. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr Mélenchon, Mrs Le Pen, you are saying in concert that the European flag would not have its place in the Chamber. I answer you without ambiguity: can he always stay there! He has brought in here the ardent desire for freedom of peoples who have liberated themselves from totalitarian or authoritarian regimes to join this community of destiny unique to the world. He brought here the illustrious names of the founding fathers of Europe, who, with determination and humility, built this building of peace. I am talking about Konrad Adenauer, Alcide De Gasperi, Jean Monnet, Robert Schuman or Paul-Henri Spaak, of whom we are the compulsory heirs. He brought here the legacy of Simone Veil, deported with his family to the concentration camps, survivor of horror, and president of the first European Parliament elected by universal suffrage. He brought here François Mitterrand's hand to Helmut Kohl, and so many fragments of a glorious narrative of a larger story. You tell us that Europe is the loss of France. On the contrary, to associate the French flag with the European flag here is to have the courage to say loud and clear that the real patriots are European.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u99	France must be European because its destiny is played today on the national stage as well as on the European or world stage. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the same crises affect the world, Europe and France. In an open world – probably too open – to the winds of globalisation, there is no longer any partition between national issues and European issues: making choices with others is making choices for ourselves. French and European sovereignty are interlacing common interests, and European sovereignty is nothing more than an amplifier for our national sovereignty! Only how could France ensure the security of the French in the face of Islamist terrorism whose bloodthirsty crusade has no borders? How could it respond to the challenges of global warming and migration?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u100	Or glyphosate, for example?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u101	How could she draw her pin from the game in the face of a global competition marked by the shift from the centre of the world to emerging countries? Letting Europe sink would therefore be a solution to let France sink with it. That is why I am pleased that this motion for a resolution is an opportunity for us to have this essential debate. Finally, this will allow us not to leave the monopoly of criticism of Europe to those who are waiting for its dislocation, as is all too often the case, but to accept this criticism. Indeed, we believe that Europe is a matter of will and that it is by taking a lucid and demanding look at its weaknesses that we can continue the work of the founding fathers. We are not beat worshipers of Europe as it works today, contrary to what you would like to make believe at each end of this House. We are aware of this, our generation has for too long been content to manage and administer Europe. The time demands more, because the very existence of our civilization is at risk. That is why we do not want a technocratic and taunting Europe that weakens by expanding further, but a Europe that deepens its project. We want a Europe that protects its citizens from the drifts of globalisation, by achieving social harmonisation; not a Europe that exposes them to ever more precariousness and unemployment. We want a Europe that guarantees our companies that they will fight on equal terms with their foreign competitors; not a Europe of posted workers. It should be stressed in this connection that the commitment of the President of the Republic is a step forward. We want a Europe that preserves our social models from implosion, because it knows how to enforce its borders; not a passing Europe. We want a democratic, transparent and accountable Europe; not a Europe that imposes decisions on peoples in the secret of the conclaves between powerful ones. To this end, I am deeply convinced that we must involve the peoples in reshaping the European project. In response to last year's Brexit, I proposed that a citizens' consultation be launched throughout Europe and that each national Parliament provide a contribution to this European debate. I am pleased that the President of the Republic has announced the holding of democratic conventions. For my part, I hope that the road map that will be set will finally provide Europe with a president elected by universal suffrage – for too long it has been built without the peoples or even against the peoples. I also hope that we will finally set priorities for Europe. I see several of them: the establishment of an economic government in the euro area and the possibility for it to resort to borrowing for investment; strengthening European solidarity mechanisms for countries in difficulty and development aid policy, particularly for Africa; involvement of national parliaments in the construction of the European budget, and vice versa; a real treaty on internal and external security, as we were able to do on the monetary issue or in the field of education; a renegotiation of the Schengen agreements through an intergovernmental agreement. Finally, if this project is to succeed, it will have to focus on youth, without which Europe will never be able to recover. It will have to rekindle the glimmer of all that we share, of this silent knowledge of our unique place in the world, of this culture and of this heritage to no other like, so that Europe becomes aware that it is above all a civilization. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I am convinced that we can do this and I will put all my energy into it. I will do so because a stronger Europe will be a stronger France. That is why it is more necessary than ever for the European flag to be in this House. For all these reasons, our group will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u102	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u103	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union was designed on the ashes of the Second World War to restore confidence among the peoples of Europe. Protecting these values remains a key objective of the European Union. As parliamentarians, and resolutely Europeans, we are determined to achieve these values through legislative action. Political correctness and attempts not to lose some electorates have led to the normalization of meaningless rhetoric, which never plans further than the next elections. The resolution before us this evening aims at the recognition by the French State of the symbols of the European Union. Many founding fathers of the European Union have been mentioned this evening. In the course of our discussions, I would like to return to the action of Richard Coudenhove-Kalergi, who was in the inter-war period one of the first and most fervent defenders of European unity. At a conference entitled "The Europe of tomorrow" on 17 May 1939, Coudenhove-Kalergi presented the different aims of European integration in several points. The first is to preserve peace, avoid war. The second is to build an equal Europe, a united Europe where peoples and races would be equal. The third is a Europe that is not solely based on economic cooperation and monetary unity. The fourth is to allow the existence of a real European defence force. The fifth is to create a Europe where science and technology reduce the distances between peoples and men and allow progress to be made towards a pan-European union with a basis for national equality and respect for human freedom. It is to this Europe, outlined seventy-eight years ago, that we wish to achieve. I must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that the objective has not been achieved and that we will have to redouble our efforts, at a time when the vilest populism sometimes calls into question the achievements of European construction in the name of nationalist temptation. In this month of November, we commemorated the memory of "the sacrificed generation", fallen in Verdun, in the Artois or at the Chemin des Dames. We cannot forget, however, that the conditions and vexations imposed on Germany defeated by the Treaty of Versailles will be the fertile soil of resentment and the spirit of revenge, which will lead, twenty years later, to five more years of madness. However, the European Union has been built precisely in the idea that the unity built between peoples will preserve the peace of our continent, and we can only welcome the success of this project. The image of Europe which we have shaped for centuries, which the humanists defended, which the tolerance established by the Human Rights of 1789 magnified, collapses under the blows of the populists and nationalists. Protecting these values remains a key objective of the European Union. We must aim and overcome populism and its consequences by presenting a more realistic choice. We need symbols to maintain Locarno's spirit, so dear to Aristide Briand, to enhance the unity and solidarity of the Union, to create tomorrow's "European identity". "Europe is the most fragmented of the continents." It is in this that her new unity lies, and that is why she was able to generate the Enlightenment, but also wars. We can think that this is still the case, when we are wondering today about the identity of this Europe. Every step forward in Europe has changed its space and its thinking. We must remember the spirit of the Enlightenment, those ideas which are a common foundation in European evolution, that of autonomy, that of the human purpose of our actions, that of universality. Unifying peoples means giving everyone the means to feel belonging, to recognize themselves and to identify themselves. As such, symbols have always been the basis of the common identity of peoples and nations. If we want to create a true spirit of European belonging, it seems essential to recognise, within the Member States themselves, the representative symbols of the European Union. Let us remember Locarno's spirit, for we have forgotten the cause of the spirit in favour of often misled political commitment. The European mission is to always insist on what binds and what unites the peoples, to affirm the preponderance of the European over the national, of humanity over the homeland. Richard Coudenhove-Kalergi had grasped the importance of this symbolism in the completion of the European integration process. He was the first, in 1929, to campaign for the adoption of the Ode to Joy as a European anthem. In 1930, he called for the establishment of a Europe Day in May, and was also a staunch defender of the European flag. Ladies and gentlemen, our desire to see European symbols recognized does not mean in any way that we place in the background the defence of our national symbolism, the symbolism of our republic, our Marianne, our tricolor flag, our Marseillaise. The national imagination is forged through a procession of symbols, national heroes, almost mythical narratives reconstructed and recomposed a posteriori. All this thus shapes a mythical representation of the nation, and today we recognize ourselves in symbols that have once been able to represent the antithesis of the values of our republic. I was particularly seized when some of our colleagues were outraged at the presence in this Chamber of the European flag, believing that it was a standard of faith. Then why not see in our blue the Marian color become royal color under Louis VII? Is the red not the same as the one affixed to the coat of arms of the abbey of Saint-Denis by Abbé Suger? Isn't white historically, in France, the color of the monarchy?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u104	We died for that flag, sir, not for your thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u105	Would it come to the mind of anyone on these benches to question the republican and secular symbolism of our tricolor flag? Certainly not, because beyond their past uses, symbols are made to spread the essence of the values associated with them. The same is true of the European flag. Before concluding, I would like to refer to the absence in our Parliament of a symbol that would perhaps be the most representative of our European tropism and of our willingness to involve parliamentarians, legitimate representatives of the people, in the European project. This missing symbol is the absence in these walls of a permanent Committee on European Affairs, enjoying the same means and prerogatives as the other committees of this House. Today's relegation of European affairs to an annex committee does not reflect the will of the members of this Assembly to be fully involved in the European project and to be fully involved in it. Ladies and gentlemen, the declaration No 52, annexed to the Treaty of Lisbon, which we are defending this evening is in line with the Europe we want for tomorrow. Many States have already endorsed this decision and today recognise European symbols as part of their identity. So are we going to turn our backs on our Belgian, Bulgarian, German, Greek, Spanish, Italian, Cypriot, Lithuanian, Luxembourgish, Hungarian, Maltese, Austrian, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovenian and Slovak friends, or will we recognize tomorrow the symbols of our community of interest?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u106	Our Russian friends! Our Chinese friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u107	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It is in this sense that the Members of the House of Representatives of the Republic on the move have tabled and support this resolution that I call on you to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u108	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u109	Madam President, Madam Minister, what if we evacuate the false subjects? We are not here to know whether we are real Europeans when we accept the European flag behind the sitting presidency. That is not the subject we need to discuss here tonight. Moreover, there would be much to say about the reason why we are now putting flags in the hemicycles: by definition, a flag only floats if there is wind, and the French tradition wants us to pavour outside and not inside. It is a tradition inspired by the United States, but I close the parenthesis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u111	In fact, the subject could come close to ridicule. On the one hand, we have Jean-Luc Mélenchon, who does not like Christian reference. We could then explore republican psychology, since Marianne comes from Marie and Anne, the two names most worn at the end of the 18th century. There's a little of the Virgin Mary in the Republic. I don't insist. On the other hand, we have the obsession of Emmanuel Macron who drapes in the European flag to give himself a capacity. I have the impression that this obsession and symbol is psychological, but to take back Lacan, the symbolic order does not explain everything. In this case, attachment does not legislate. It is not because we adopt this resolution that the French will love Europe more or less.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u113	The real issue is what we want to mean by placing a European flag behind the perch of the National Assembly. I see it as a statement by Emmanuel Macron, and I find in your resolution this term: you are talking about a sovereign European Union. That's where we diverge. Sovereignty is national, it belongs to the French people. There is no European people, as there cannot be a transnational European list, nor a sovereign European Union. National sovereignty cannot be mixed with European sovereignty. There can be no European sovereignty. And what concerns me is that this resolution arises, as if by chance, just after Emmanuel Macron's speech, in which he described the idea of European sovereignty and national sovereignty. This suggests that we could add sovereignty as we do flags or hymns. Let me tell you this: whatever my attachment to European symbols, I do not put on the same plane the blue-white-red flag, worn since Louis XVI, which floated on Koufra and Strasbourg, with a flag drawn by a European official.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u115	I do not put Marseillaise, sung in Valmy or on the battlefields of the First World War, and Beethoven's ninth symphony, was it dedicated to the king of Prussia.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u117	I do not put on the same plane on 14 July, which saw freedom win the bet against the autocracy, and on 9 May, the date of a press conference at the Quai d'Orsay.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u119	No, I do not put them on the same level, which does not mean that I do not respect European symbols. I simply draw your attention to the fact that the addition of sovereignty is a nonsense, which poses a legal problem for three reasons. [[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and among non-attached Members]] First of all, article 2 of the Constitution defines the symbols of the Republic. In order to change or enrich the symbols of the Republic, the Constitution must be amended, not a resolution. Then, in 2005, the European referendum rejected the supranational project and the elements that related to this European symbol. The Treaty of Lisbon does not take them back. So you bring in through the window what the people evacuated through the door. You're talking about symbols, but I'll quote you Victor Hugo. We must not insult the people. "The most excellent symbol of the people is the pavement. We walk on it, until it falls on your head".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u121	The last legal argument is the presence of the flag in the Chamber. You could tell me that it has its place, since 80% of the national legislation is of Brussels origin. It would therefore be normal for the European flag to appear where the bulk of a law influenced by European legislation is drawn up. But it is also the symbol, unfortunately, of a form of democratic denial, in that the principle of separation of powers is flouted. It was the President of the Republic who called for this European flag to be placed in the Chamber. However, it does not have to determine how the National Assembly organizes its work. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that you obeyed the injunction. This is not your proposal, but an injunction from the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u122	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u123	For all these reasons, I will vote against this draft resolution, even if it leads some to fall into the category of extremes. We have to get out of this Manichean debate. We have a real subject on national democracy. The Republic, democracy and sovereignty are indissolubly linked. Today, our democracy is sick because we are unable to meet the needs of our fellow citizens. Until we understand that this supranational blindness leads to the disappearance of democracy, we will aggravate the phenomenon. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will conclude with this quote from Malraux: "Cburglaring myths is useless, because a myth becomes devoid of action when it separates itself from what gave birth to it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u124	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u125	I am European because I know that we are registered in Europe by our geography, our history and our civilisation. I love Europe because it is our cradle, our roots, our future too. I am European because we, and even more so our children, are playing our borders, cultivating friendships across the continent, or practicing languages that are as many gateways as possible. I am European despite the progress of Euroscepticism. A 2016 poll reveals that there are many supporters of a national downturn: 39% in France, 42% on average in ten countries surveyed. As you know, nothing can be done without the approval of the citizens. I am European, but contrary to Montesquieu, who declared that "Europe is a state composed of several provinces", I am convinced that we must rely on the nations that are the very flesh of Europe. Nations that must be respected for their singularity, their own genius, each contributing to the wealth of a continent that cannot afford to forget one of its heritages. I am European and proud of our culture, of our morals, and of our ways of life that are now being undermined by unprecedented migratory waves. Let us recall that Judeo-Christian civilization, always ahead of its time, invented secularism, equity, the right to vote for men and women. This civilization has been able to attract talent, to welcome reprobates, to respond to the appeals of the dispossessed. I am European, because I do not confuse Europe with the Brussels institutions. There is an urgent need to instil democracy, freedom, respect for peoples too, to review the way in which the European institutions are to be designated, to abolish the reign of the tatillon bureaucrats, of the real cold-cold technocrats, and of the unelected commissioners who want to regent up to the details of our lives. I am European, but I cannot accept that France loses its legal sovereignty by leaving its right to be dictated by the European Court of Human Rights or the European Court of Justice. Our right is now being imposed at 80% by the European Union. We must regain and regain our freedom to adopt the measures, regulations and laws we deem necessary, indispensable. I am European for the projects that Europe alone can set in motion: a great space adventure, the construction of a giant capable of competing with the GAFAM – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft – of Silicon Valley, a colossal effort in the field of research – the only guarantee of our future –, a true industrial policy able to stand up to multinationals. I am European because we must build, against the European directives, against the Brussels logic, and against the power of the lobbies, a solidarity economy that no longer plays with differences in wages and social standards in order to impoverish the poorest, or to further weaken the most fragile companies. I am European to make Europe a pole of the future, a model of renewed democracy and a land of freedom. We urgently need a Europe that wants to be, that thinks of itself, that dreams of Europe, that attracts, that shines, that is a model, that is an example. For all these promises, for all these hopes, for all these challenges, I am European. And while the European symbols are now captured, even hijacked, by a Brussels-based power that I denounce, they are still the symbols of this emerging Europe. So, and despite everything, to see our tricolor flag float alongside my tricolor flag, the European banner is a hope, an ambition that I do not want to give up. Tricolor flag of my heart, and banner to the twelve stars of my reason – twelve stars on blue background, blue as the dress of the Blessed Virgin tells us her creator...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u126	Amen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u127	...can do good cleaning, should do good cleaning. It is about the greatness of our country. I love my country first and foremost, and I cherish the idea of a Europe that is concerned with each of the nations that make up it. So, yes, I am a European, but above all a European French woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u128	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank your Assembly for organizing this exchange. This debate could not find a better framework than your hemicycle, which, for all French people throughout the world, is the best symbol of our democracy. On 20 October, at the European Council, the President of the Republic announced – and he was fully in his role as Head of State – that France would join the declaration on the symbols of the European Union. This declaration, which falls within the prerogatives of the executive, sets out a list: the starred blue flag, the anthem drawn from the Ode to the joy of Beethoven's ninth symphony, the motto "united in diversity", the euro as the currency of the Union and Europe Day on 9 May, which "will continue to be the symbols of the common belonging of citizens to the European Union and of their links with it". This is the first question I wanted to raise before you this evening, that of the nature of the link between citizens and European integration. The flag, the anthem, the motto, the currency, the day of celebration are the classic attributes of political constructions, especially of states. Both French and European citizens, we celebrate 14 July as well as 9 May...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u130	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u131	...we have two flags, two hymns, two currencies and, fortunately, one currency. Is that a problem? None, precisely because the European Union is not a state but an original construction whose motto is "In variate concordia", unity in diversity. To those who believe that these European symbols undermine our national identity, we answer that they complement it, enrich it, and, in essence, prolong it. One can want one form of Europe or another – from the most intergovernmental to the most federal – one can even pretend to ignore the European institutions, but one cannot dispute the fact that the European idea is embodied in everyday life. Europe is, of course, the largest open area of prosperity in the world. There is its origin, but reducing Europe to the single market would be a profound mistake. We do not want to make this mistake. We are therefore determined to make social Europe a reality. That is the whole meaning of the fight we have waged on the posting of workers and of the proclamation of the European Pillar of Social Rights at the Gothenburg Summit, which must now be translated into concrete initiatives. Beyond that, it is in particular by strengthening the European Union's action in favour of culture that we will work to consolidate the values of the European project. Let me share with you a personal experience, that of a diplomat who has lived and worked on the five continents: where, in Europe, we perceive our differences, sometimes our divisions, what strikes from the streets of Dakar, Rabat, Jakarta or Washington, is on the contrary the strength of European culture and values, this unique mixture of individual freedom and solidarity, self-assertion and the defence of multilateralism. It is the result of a long history, made of noise, fury, shed blood, but also of the movements of ideas that have marked the continent since antiquity through the Renaissance, the Enlightenment and the French Revolution: there lies our common heritage. It is in this complementarity between what belongs to the nation and what belongs to Europe that the concept of European sovereignty takes its full meaning. Our challenges are no longer those of the nations alone: whether it is the fight against terrorism, the defence of our economies in the face of not always fair competition, migration or climate change, it is Europe that is best able to protect us. Opposing national sovereignty and European sovereignty is tantamount to taking the risk of weakening us, because both must complement each other to ensure the security and well-being of citizens while guaranteeing individual freedom. Let us be clear and realistic: without national sovereignty, European sovereignty has no meaning. On the other hand, without European sovereignty, national sovereignty is not able to meet the challenges of our time. We need both a strong France and a Europe of power, i.e. autonomous and capable of defending its values and interests in today's and tomorrow's world. Let's go back to the European symbols. After mentioning the motto, I would like to say a word about the starry flag on a blue background. It was first the emblem of the Council of Europe, and therefore of the European Convention on Human Rights; it became the flag of all the European institutions in 1986; it was raised for the first time on the Quai d'Orsay on 13 July 2007, a few months before the French presidency of the European Union; it has been present in your Chamber since 2008. This flag is above all a symbol of the values that unite Europe, of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, in the European Treaties, and now in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. By this flag, we recognize that we Europeans are gathered by a single legal model at the heart of which are principles which are not our exclusive property, but which are universal and whose European political construction is the guarantor. This flag is therefore both the symbol of a political entity, which we are certainly entitled to contest or criticize, but also the symbol of values that must gather us together. Let us not be mistaken, I share with some speakers in this debate a particular affection for the flag of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u132	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u133	This affection, this respect, is in no way diminished by the presence of symbols of religious origin – the olive branches – on this flag because, again, the values of peace that it symbolizes go beyond the biblical inspiration that has certainly proceeded to its creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u134	Everything comes from God!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u135	Let's go back to Europe. What did the decision of the President of the Republic to join Declaration No. 52 mean? The change does not concern the symbols themselves, which we have long respected, but the message of commitment and mobilisation for Europe carried by the French authorities. The construction of Europe has nothing definitive: in the face of globalisation, unprecedented changes – the ecological transition or the digital revolution – our societies are in doubt. This doubt nourishes self-absorbing, declineism and Euroscepticism. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The choice of the President of the Republic is to demonstrate to the French that Europe will protect them. The French deserve better in response to their concerns than an attack on symbols. They deserve to be addressed to their intelligence, not to fan fears or what the President of the Republic calls sad passions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u136	When you hear "President of the Republic", you have Pavlovian reflexes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u137	European sovereignty remains to be built in part. This requires renewed common policies, a common budget that is being rethought at twenty-seven, a better integration of the euro area, but also, and above all, more debates and democracy, because we remember that democracy is the very essence of the European project. In a few months, we will open a phase of discussions through the organisation of democratic conventions in France, but also in all the European countries that wish to do so. Our aim is to give the floor back to all citizens, including those who wonder what Europe is bringing to them. Then, in 2019, European citizens will be able to express themselves during the European elections. We want a public debate to emerge that goes beyond our borders so that the European Union is not the sum of national opinions. That is why we are carrying the draft transnational lists, additional to the usual lists, which can help us to identify collective choices, values, and a shared understanding of our commons. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for years, we have deepened European integration in the midst of experts and elites. It is now essential to recast it, but it will not happen without the peoples. The President of the Republic and the Government are committed to this and we are proud to place this fight under our two flags – the tricolor flag and the European flag.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u138	I have no request for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u139	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u140	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u141	First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues for allowing each of us to present our views on such a central issue this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u142	Not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u143	We didn't have the right to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u144	It is never derisory to debate symbols, since they end up representing what we are. Of course, I will not repeat the arguments that lead us to vote against the motion for a resolution, but I would like to stress one point that was present in all the explanations. If we want people to come closer, we must give them the means: material – they have been mentioned – and symbolic. That is why our argument against this flag is its character and its denominational origin. We do not confuse it with that of the homeland, which, certainly, was not clearer at the beginning than another flag, but that history, La Marseillaise, the victories and defeats have charged, forever, with an ineffaçable meaning. That's why you're making a mistake trying to force yourself, about a symbol that has already been rejected. And it is not the power of the President of the Republic to sign Declaration No. 52 on his own, because the Parliament meeting in congresses having spoken against it, it would take another vote on his part to speak in favour of it. Therefore, this motion for a resolution must be taken for what it is: a political proclamation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We have given our position; Now, let the vote come. He will show what our power relations are, but he will not say what the deep conviction of the French people is – at least I believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u145	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1072.u146	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and vote, by public vote, on the bill ratifying various orders made on the basis of Act No. 2017-1340 of 15 September 2017 authorizing the measures to be taken by order for the strengthening of social dialogue; Discussion, in new reading, of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2018. The meeting is adjourned.
