ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u2	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to put his question, No 9, on the digital coverage of rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u3	My question is for the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. The French in the rural world are not second-class French. There must not be a France for the connected and a France for the forgotten. There can't be a France that has the chance to be open to the world and a France that is being disconnected. In France, as you know, too many regions face a disparity in access to digital technologies. Despite what the operators say, many areas of the national territory remain very little covered by 4G or 3G, which only exacerbates the territorial divide. Adequate digital coverage is essential to ensure the attractiveness and development of rural areas. The digital coverage of the entire territory is an absolute emergency for the inhabitants of rural areas. The President of the Republic has pledged to provide 100 per cent of the French population with broadband coverage by the end of 2020 and the Government is currently conducting discussions with operators to obtain new coverage commitments. I would like to know the state of play of these discussions with operators regarding the installation of towers in rural areas, particularly in the Haute-Loire department. In the absence of agreement with these operators, what steps does the Government wish to take to force them – I insist on this word – to fulfil this essential mission for the French? On behalf of the millions of people in the rural world, who are exasperated at not having the same digital rights as the other French, I call on the Government to act quickly and, above all, to act well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u5	Mr. Member of Parliament, aware of the urgent need to put an end to what you rightly describe as an unjust territorial divide, the Government has decided to speed up the digital coverage of the territories by setting ambitious and coherent objectives around two axes. The first is a cohesion axis, in order to ensure that all, particularly in rural areas, have access to broadband for all or to very high-speed from 2020 and to generalise the quality of mobile coverage, allowing, in particular, all uses of 4G. The second is a axis of ambition, to provide all the territories of the Republic with state-of-the-art digital infrastructure, offering access to very high-speed. In order to achieve these objectives, we have launched various projects since the summer, in consultation, as you have pointed out, with local authorities, operators and industry in the sector. With regard to the fixed coverage of the territory, the Government has chosen to maintain the stable balances of the France Très Haut Débit plan, by securing the action of the local authorities engaged in public initiative networks and by obtaining from the operators firm commitments of deployment, punishable within a legal framework. For the cohesion target set in 2020, a major project is under way, which aims to identify all premises that will not have good wired broadband by 2020. More than seventy departments have already been dealt with to date. The Government will ensure that an effective Internet access solution is available for each of these households and consider how best to support their equipment. Approximately two million premises are involved, according to the Digital Agency's estimates. With regard to mobile coverage of the Territory, despite existing programmes, the Government was fully aware that the solutions currently in place were not sufficient. The current criteria do not correspond to the practices that have developed strongly, particularly for the mobile sector, which causes frustration and incomprehension among elected officials, citizens and operators, especially in the most rural areas, which are poorly covered. In order to achieve the goal of widespread quality mobile coverage by 2020, the Government intends to rely mainly on private operators. With this in mind, he asked the regulation of electronic communications and postal services, ARCEP, to conduct discussions with the operators on the commitments they could undertake in a binding way – I stress this word – in the context of the renewal of their licence. Proposals on these new modalities have already been transmitted by the regulator to the Government, which intends to report its decision by the end of this year, in the next few days. On the other hand, our reflections feed on the various initiatives that can be implemented in the territories. Every good example must serve us. Mr President, the proximity to the expiry of the licences for 2021-2024 offers a unique opportunity for dialogue. However, if the proposal made by ARCEP to the Government was not considered satisfactory, it should be noted that ARCEP will study all the other forms of action, in consultation with the local authorities, and will of course inform the national representative accordingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u6	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u7	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. However, this digital coverage in rural areas needs to be done very quickly, as it is the development of rural areas. If we do not act now, there will be a territorial divide between urban areas and rural areas, and deserts will be created on these territories. We therefore need concrete action very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u8	Mr Mickaël Nogal has the floor to put his question, No 22, on emergency accommodation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u9	My question is to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and is about the state of emergency accommodation as it approaches the winter period. In Toulouse, as in other cities and cities, the housing situation of vulnerable people remains worrying. In recent weeks, I have been alerted to the situation of many homeless families. Thanks to good coordination between the State departments, those of the city and the action of associations such as France Horizon, emergency solutions were found. Thus, the Haute-Garonne will have 650 emergency accommodation places dedicated to the reception of homeless people during the winter period. Other, longer-term solutions exist. For example, it is not uncommon for buildings awaiting renovation, particularly in the city centre, where regulations are multiple and heavy, to remain empty for at least 12 months or even 18 to 24 months. In Toulouse, associations propose to use these buildings for emergency accommodation during the period of inoccupation, before the start of the work, for example, or as part of a free supply by the owner, to whom this operation avoids the costs of guarding. Alternatively, a Toulouse non-profit association offers an emergency accommodation solution in the form of accommodation modules installed in unoccupied offices. This system makes it possible to exploit the interlayer domain, i.e. the unused buildings of the city, which are numerous. Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, can you tell me what short-, medium- and long-term solutions the Government intends to put in place to address the immediate human emergency, and what you are considering to encourage innovative solutions when the current mechanisms are no longer sufficient to respond to these unacceptable crisis situations?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u10	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u11	Mr President, as you have pointed out, the Occitanie region and, in particular, the Haute-Garonne department have, historically, a social housing park below the national average. A major catch-up effort has been made in recent years. For example, the resources allocated by the State to housing and access policy in the Occitanie region under programme 177 have increased by 24 per cent over five years. The capacity of accommodation and suitable accommodation in the Haute-Garonne department has been the subject of special attention in recent years and has grown considerably, to reach today a capacity of around 5000 places. This mobilisation is obviously reinforced during the winter period and, since 1 November last, an unprecedented effort has been made in terms of the creation of accommodation places, so that a suitable solution is found for each family without accommodation that requests 115, with particular attention when these families include children. In your department of Haute-Garonne, until 15 November, an average of 220 people were daily without accommodation solutions and you are among those most involved in bringing this matter to the attention of the Government. On 1 December, just a week ago, more than 550 winter places were opened in Haute-Garonne. By the end of this month, your department will eventually have more than 800 emergency accommodation spaces dedicated to welcoming homeless people during the winter. I would add that 220 places still have to be opened in the next few days in apartments made available by social donors, as you mentioned. Finally, since 1 December, on average, seventy-four people have been sheltered in a gym every day. At national level, up to 10,000 places will be mobilised in addition to the 125,000 places open all year round. I would point out that all these places are 100% financed by the State in the form of social support. In Haute-Garonne, solutions were first found in the social park: new squares were opened in apartments, but also in buildings dedicated to demolition. As for the mobilization of State-owned buildings, new solutions are currently under consideration. I can also tell you that the State and the city of Toulouse are also working to support the Unity Cube association, which has developed the innovative solution that you mentioned and which consists of installing modules in unoccupied buildings. As you can see, all solutions deserve to be explored and the Government is paying great attention to these issues. In conclusion, I would like to recall the remarks made precisely to the elected representatives of Toulouse by the President of the Republic last September on the occasion of the presentation of the plan for emergency accommodation: "I know the work your city is doing in terms of housing and we want to experiment with you our plan Housing first". Member of Parliament, you can count on the determination and mobilization of the entire Government to allow as many people as possible without accommodation to have a roof, in Haute-Garonne as elsewhere in the national territory, especially during the winter period. Finally, on November 20, the Minister of Territorial Cohesion issued a call for expressions of interest to communities wishing to invest in the Housing First Plan. The objective is to select, in February 2018, the fifteen accelerated implementation territories. I know how to count on you to relay this message and call the metropolis and the city of Toulouse, if they wish, to register in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u12	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor to put his question, No 14, on the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg and on the European project.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u13	My question is to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for European affairs. At the European meetings in Strasbourg, which took place from 21 to 26 November, and at the citizens' assemblies, which took place in the second constituency from 1 to 8 December, the question of relaunching the European project and what it actually means in the lives of citizens, particularly in Strasbourg, was widely debated. I would like to ask the Government about two issues in particular, which were raised during these discussions. The first concerns the attachment of Strasbourgians to the seat of the European Parliament, because Strasbourg is the city of Europe, and perhaps of the world, where the largest number of institutions are at the heart of the stakes: the European Parliament, of course, which is the only elected body of European architecture, but also the Council of Europe, which defends human rights, the European Court of Human Rights, the ECHR, the last resort of a citizen against his national State, the Eurocorps, which embodies another type of defence of citizens, and the European Youth Centre. In recent years, the question of the location of the seat of the European Parliament has frequently returned to the forefront. I know the President of the Republic's commitment to the reconstruction of a proactive and innovative European project. The question of all participants in these European meetings and meetings is thus as follows: Can the Minister for European Affairs confirm her unwavering support and that of the whole Government for maintaining the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg? A second issue discussed at these meetings relates to the proposal made by our colleague Christophe Euzet, who, in his contribution to the working group for a new National Assembly, stressed the fact that the preamble to the French Constitution refers to the French commitment to the Republic, to human rights and to the Charter of the Environment but not to the European project – Europe, moreover, only appears to Article 88 of the Constitution. Is it not time to mention this commitment to the European project, as Christophe Euzet proposes, with an explicit reference in the preamble to our Constitution? Although I am a new Member, I know that oral questions without debate concern local issues, but in Strasbourg, as you will understand, European issues are still subjects of local interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u14	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u15	Mr President, the Government is very committed to Strasbourg's status as the European capital. There must be no doubt about our determination and the minister responsible for European affairs has already had the opportunity to remind him publicly on 5 July, when she first travelled to Strasbourg. Strasbourg is a symbol of reconciliation on our continent. For this reason, the seat of the European Parliament, as well as of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, has been established. This choice, enshrined in the Treaties, also reflects the desire of the founding fathers to build a polycentric Europe. The European Central Bank shall have its seat in Frankfurt, the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. There are now thirty-five decentralised agencies whose seats are distributed among the different Member States of the European Union. To question the Strasbourg seat of Parliament would be to call into question the whole balance. For France, Strasbourg's status as the European capital is intangible and non-negotiable. Mr President, you are also asking us about France's commitment to the European project and about the advisability of amending the Constitution. Nor can there be any doubt as to the European choice of the French authorities. This is the meaning of the speech delivered by the President of the Republic on 26 September at the Sorbonne on the re-foundation of Europe. It is also the meaning of the approach taken by the President of the Republic, who confirmed, on the occasion of the European Council of 19 and 20 October, France's attachment to the European symbols of the European flag, the anthem drawn from the Ode à la Joy, the motto "Unie dans la diversité", the euro and the Day of Europe on 9 May, indicating that France joined Declaration No. 52 on the symbols of the European Union. The Government was also pleased that the National Assembly had adopted a resolution along the same lines. As you can see, even without revising the Constitution and without prejudging the debates that will open on the constitutional review, the Government has a high ambition for Europe and actively defends its symbols. With your help, France will take its full place in a strong, free and sovereign Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u16	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u17	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the clarity of your remarks in this House, particularly on the seat of the European Parliament. Thank you for doing so without any ambiguity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u18	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon, to put his question, No 1, on postal mail between the overseas departments and metropolitan France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u19	My question is for the Minister of Economy and Finance. I would like to alert him about the tariffs for postal parcels between the overseas and the hexagon. The end-of-year parties will take place in a few days. Between 900000 and 1 million Ultramarines living and working in the hexagon are used, where possible, to receiving parcels from their relatives or friends – a way to keep in touch with their original territory. For La Réunion, for example, it concerns lechi, mangoes, pineapple or charcuterie and, of course, pepper, all watered with a wine of Cilaos or punch. Our compatriots are the victims of a great injustice, a real scandal. While sending a package of one kilo between the departments of the hexagon costs 7,50 euros, it amounts to 13,90 euros or 16,60 euros from overseas to the metropolis. For a parcel of 10 kilos, the difference is even more obvious: 18.90 euros for metropolitan France, 45.50 euros or 96 euros for overseas France. It is unacceptable, if not illegal, that the Ultramarines should not be treated like the other French. Why are overseas countries excluded from the tariff equalization that exists on metropolitan territory, as is the case for EDF? However, according to European rules and according to the criteria for the exercise of La Poste's mission, all points in the territory of France must be treated equally. This injustice lasted too long. It concerns the whole overseas: Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guyana, La Réunion, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Wallis-et-Futuna and I pass by. This difference in treatment also shocked the city as the national press echoed it, in particular Le Figaro, on 30 October last, and Mediapart, on 5 November last. While the State and La Poste are finalising the company contract that binds them around public service missions, will the Minister of Economy and Finance seize this opportunity to put an end to this difference in treatment that dates back to colonial times?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u20	[[At 9:45 a.m., Mr. Sylvain Waserman replaced Mr. Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u21	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u22	Member of Parliament, the law of 9 February 2010, which transformed La Poste into a public limited company, confirmed the four public service tasks entrusted to the company: the universal postal service, the transport and distribution of the press, the contribution to the planning of the territory, and the accessibility of banking. La Poste has since been engaged in an unprecedented transformation of its industrial, economic and social model. The development of digital exchanges, the significant and irreversible drop in the volume of mail – by 6.5% in 2015 and 5.2% in 2016 – and the resulting decrease in post office attendance by an average of 6% per year have profoundly challenged its core business. In parallel, in a search for greater equality of access for users to the catalogue of universal postal service, the law of 28 February 2017 on programming relating to real equality overseas and laying down other provisions in social and economic matters introduced a tariff alignment for shipments falling within the second instalment of weight of mail – from 21 to 100 grams – to and from the overseas departments, but also from Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon and Saint-Barthélemy. The aim was to extend the tariff equalization already applied for the first weight band – from 0 to 20 grams – with this first tranche concentrating three quarters of the flows currently processed by La Poste. The objective of this tariff alignment is to promote the access of ultramarine users and to provide, at an affordable price, access to the essential public service of universal service. Thus, according to La Poste's estimates, 96% of shipments of correspondence to or from the overseas unit are now equalized. However, a possible tariff alignment for the other weight bands of the mail – from 101 grams to 2 kilograms – but also for the parcel rates is not desirable at this stage. It would cost more than the extension for the second weight band, whereas it would cost only 4% of the traffic. This cost should be passed on to all users or offset by a budget at La Poste. Your proposal would therefore lead to a weakening of the economic balance of universal postal service. In addition, Article L. 1 of the Post and Electronic Communications Code provides, inter alia, that the prices of the universal service catalogue are cost-oriented and encourage efficient delivery, while taking into account the characteristics of the markets on which they apply. However, the cost of processing an overseas package is three times higher than that of an intra-metropolitan package, mainly due to the cost of taking over the counter, due to customs documents, and of transporting it with air transport. These cost differences are introduced into the tariffs which are approved by the Electronic Communications and Posts Regulatory Authority. It should be noted, however, that since 2009, La Poste has made lower tariff developments on average for the overseas parcel than for the mainland parcel – 1.7% for the overseas parcel, compared with 2.5% for the metropolis. Finally, not all packages exchanged between overseas and metropolitan France fall within the scope of the universal service of which La Poste is the operator designated by law. Furthermore, imposing regulated tariffs for certain categories of parcels disconnected from the costs of geographical remoteness would pose serious problems of unfair competition to certain economic actors such as expressists or carriers. However, please be assured, Mr. Member, that the Government, which has set among its priorities the fight against territorial inequalities, remains very attentive to the successful fulfilment by La Poste of its public service missions, to which our fellow citizens are very attached, in all the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u23	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u24	Your answer, Secretary of State, closes the door to equal treatment between the French of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u25	Mr Olivier Marleix, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, raised his question, No 11, concerning the requirement of a certified cash system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u26	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Action and Public Accounts to the somewhat upuesque scheme resulting from the 2016 Finance Act, which obliges all traders and artisans engaged in sales activities to have cash registers or accounting software certifying that they do not commit VAT fraud. This obligation must apply on 1 January 2018, i.e. in a few days. Of course, in the 2018 Finance Bill, we have slightly relaxed this scheme by reducing its scope: all persons covered by the VAT-based exemption scheme will be excluded from this scheme, as well as non-VAT-paying farmers with related activities, such as on-farm sales. These margin adjustments do not remove the cost of such equipment, which is often several thousand euros. The investment is very high for traders and artisans whose result at the end of the month is sometimes a few hundred euros. This obligation therefore seems highly questionable: why should the burden of tax control be placed on economic actors, which should be the responsibility of the administration? It is, moreover, a rather confusing naivety: it will be enough for the merchant to have a drawer so that he does not have to open his cash register. This will not change anything about fraud – you really have to be in Bercy, far from reality, to imagine that it could have some effect! It is very regrettable that the relaxations took place only a few days before the entry into force of this obligation. The evil was done, the investment was made unnecessarily by many traders. Moreover, the planned fine of EUR 7500 is totally exorbitant, out of proportion to the economic realities we are talking about. As if there were not enough standards, Bercy had to invent new ones. You won't have to be surprised or complain – you'll do it with us, by the way! – to see the small trade disappear in rural areas! Mr Secretary of State, do you think there is still time to make this arrangement a little more flexible?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u27	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u28	Mr President, you know how important it is to fight VAT fraud by concealing revenue. Your question allows me to provide a number of clarifications, in response to debates in the Senate this week, during the consideration of the finance bill. Fraud has long been facilitated by the commercialization of software or fraudulent cash systems to erase revenue and reconstitute cash tickets without such manipulation being detectable. For this reason, the requirement to hold cash or accounting software was provided for in the 2016 Finance Act. Contrary to what you seem to be moving forward, the Government has always been sensitive to the new constraints on businesses. A two-year delayed entry into force of this obligation has been foreseen in order to allow users of software and cashier systems to take these new provisions into account. Above all, in the face of the difficulties in implementing this measure, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts announced on 15 June that the perimeter of the system would be refocused on cash systems and software, the main vectors of fraud. In addition, the tax administration indicated, in response to a number of questions put on the website of the Tax Directorate on 1 August, that the scheme would concern VAT-paying companies having commercial relations with particular customers, therefore where the risk of fraud is greatest. You are referring to the case of some traders who have now been excluded from the scheme – those who are exempt from VAT – and who have already come into compliance. Their efforts can only be welcomed and, I would like to reassure you, there is no need at all, far from that, for the supervision and compliance of their accounts. It contributes to the consolidation of the cash market desired by the Government. These traders will be ready and equipped as soon as the dynamics of their business make them cross the threshold of the franchise. The cost of compliance is not as important as you suggest. Where the taxpayer already has a caisse, the cost of updating may be included in the cost of maintenance and, if this is not the case, this expense may be expensed in the profit or loss of the business. Moreover, in the event of the acquisition of a new fund, this expenditure may either be recorded as a charge, if the amount without taxes is less than EUR 500, or be amortised. In addition, you mention the financial difficulties that very small companies would face in equipping themselves with secure software. I would remind you that they should, in principle, be excluded from the scheme and also point out to you that when the taxpayer does not own a fund, this new legislation does not require him to acquire one. Finally, companies subject to VAT with sales turnover of less than EUR 82800 fall under the basic duty-free scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u29	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u30	I welcome the relaxations made, but regret that they are in the framework of a finance law only a few days before the obligation came into force, i.e. too late for many traders who have done equipment that they ultimately did not need. Having asked the Government several written questions on this subject, I regret that I have never received a response. Traders have been allowed to buy, sometimes in debt, equipment that will be useless: this is not an example of good administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u31	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor to put his question, No. 16, on the sustainability of the mining regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u32	My question is to the Minister of Economy and Finance. The mining scheme, to which 160,000 persons have been affiliated, in force since 1946, offers health insurance with a 100% coverage and an offer of care in hospitals and health centres under the scheme of the Social Security Mining. It benefits from the solidarity of the other regimes, thus demonstrating the recognition of the nation towards the minors involved in the reconstruction of our country during the post-war period and the penitence of this profession, which manifests itself in particular by a lower life expectancy of minors, and specific pathologies, such as silicosis. This population is vulnerable, with a lower life expectancy. I am thinking in particular of widows of minors, whose payments are on average 512 euros in France. The end of the 2014-2017 target and management agreement and the prospect of being subject to the general regime raise concerns, in that they could affect the sustainability of their rights – I have recently received a delegation of more than 20 people on this issue. Access to care, in free theory, is becoming increasingly uncertain in reality, as a result of significant medical desertification in the Lorrain sector and saturated general practitioners, unable to take over from mine doctors. The right to exemption from medical allowances and free transport are also in question in practice, since doctors and hospitals restrict the prescription of light sanitary vehicles. The transfer to the general scheme could lead to the disappearance of the dependent spouse's allowance, an important supplement of 285 euros, the payment of the heating and housing allowances or the death benefit estimated at 2600 euros. Finally, if this population can benefit from the end of the property tax, it will in part suffer the increase of the CSG by 1.7%. All successive governments have committed themselves in this forum to perpetuating the rights of minors and their beneficiaries until the last living, with varying degrees of success. What are the commitments of the Minister of Public Action and Accounts to effectively maintain all the rights of affiliates? What measures does it intend to take to improve pensions for widows of minors? What is the estimated number of minor pensioners affected by the increase in the CSG and what compensation is envisaged for them?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u33	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u34	Member of the European Parliament, successive governments have committed themselves to maintaining the individual and collective rights of the mining population, which has given the nation a great deal. The law provides that the health care of persons under the special mining regime is not subject to the moderator's ticket. This commitment will not be called into question, not even as a result of the end of the treaty period in 2017. A possible endorsement of the general scheme, a decision which is not currently taken or planned, would in no case result in the reduction of the rights of minors in respect of sickness and old age insurance or those relating to old employment contracts, such as housing or heating allowances. This management decision – which, I repeat, has not been taken – cannot call into question the sustainability of the benefits in kind or in cash enjoyed by former minors, whether under social security or by virtue of their status. Nevertheless, the number of members of the health insurance scheme of the mining scheme is constantly decreasing; it was 120000 at the end of 2016. This decline, which has accelerated in recent years, must lead the Government, in conjunction with the federations representing the regime's affiliates, to begin a global reflection on the future of the organization of the mining regime. The end of the 2014-2017 Management and Targets Agreement, which links the Social Security Fund for Mines and the State, represents an opportunity to relaunch this reflection, with a view in particular to ensuring consolidation and improving the efficiency of the system's care provision. Indeed, the Government and local elected officials recognize the usefulness of this health supply in mining territories. You're also asking me about pensioners. The proportion of those who would be affected by an increase in the CSG can be estimated at about 45% of the 258,000 retirees currently registered under the special scheme. For these, no specific compensation is envisaged. However, they will benefit from general measures, including exemption from the housing tax if they meet the conditions. In addition, members of the health insurance scheme will, of course, continue to be eligible for the various extralegal health and social benefits of the scheme, depending on their income and social situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u35	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u36	Can you give me a few more details about reversion pensions? Is there any thought going on?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u37	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u38	On this last point, I invite you, Mr President, to ask my colleague in charge of this matter, not being able, at the moment when I am talking to you, to ask you more specifically.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u39	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to put her question, No. 13, on the future of the Greater Paris Metropolis and the local authorities of Ile-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u40	What's the status of the Grand Paris, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior? While the President of the Republic was scheduled to hold a territorial conference in Greater Paris in October 2017, the conference is still being postponed; we are now talking about January or even February 2018. These successive postponements raise concerns and questions among elected officials, economic actors, residents and potential investors, who fear that the renunciations, setbacks and hesitations that have sparked the quinquennium of François Hollande, during which the lack of vision, commitment, and lack of political will have been a hindrance to the development of the momentum desired for the Greater Paris. In his speech to the Congress of Mayors, the President of the Republic himself spoke of the dynamism, clarity and voluntarism that he wished to breathe into the Greater Paris. Which act, but where are we today? He described the great complexity of the territorial organization in Île-de-France, the famous six levels. I can only agree that all of this is terribly unclear and ineffective. The concern for efficiency, readability, proximity that we want to restore a dynamic, of breath in Greater Paris would justify a reform aimed at simplifying and clarifying the respective competences of the different territorial actors. In this regard, the interest and relevance of new territorial levels that have not really demonstrated their usefulness and effectiveness can be seriously questioned. Ten years after the launch of the Grand Paris by Nicolas Sarkozy, at a time when the risk of enticement of this truly visionary project and the threats of budget cuts that Bercy poses to the Grand Paris Express, where is the Government? What's the status of the President of the Republic? The Brexit, the upcoming hosting of major events such as the Rugby World Cup in 2023, the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024, and perhaps the Universal Exhibition in 2025 are all great challenges for the capital region. To rule is to decide. Can you, Madam Minister, let national representation know what the Government intends to implement for our capital region?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u41	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u42	Madam Member, you are calling my attention to the metropolis of Greater Paris. As the Prime Minister said on 10 October, in front of this assembly, everyone agrees that the current situation cannot last: the current institutional framework is not suitable for the challenges facing our capital. The President of the Republic has therefore instructed the Government to initiate a reflection on the future of the local and regional authorities of France, giving priority to public policies and not to institutional issues. It must not have escaped you that an article by Nicolas Sarkozy published last week was in the same direction. He stated that this issue should be addressed through public policy, not community policy, if there is to be no blocking. The method that the Government intends to apply for this reflection is broken down into three stages: a consultation time to gather the views of all actors; a time of analysis of the different hypotheses of evolution of the Greater Paris metropolis and of the different levels of communities currently existing; a period of decision, which will only take place after the meeting, at the initiative of the President of the Republic, of a conference on the Greater Paris in the coming weeks, that is to say at the beginning of the year – I have no more precise date. The second phase is under way and more in-depth discussions can take place at this conference. I can't tell you any more for now, but I can reassure you: there is no particular problem, just reflection matures. We realize today that we cannot maintain the current organization. It is better to take the time of reflection to propose a definitive vision of what to do for the Greater Paris metropolis, even if its implementation will be done in stages.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u43	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u44	I acknowledge your commitments, Minister. My question was to make the Government aware of the extreme vigilance of all elected officials in our beautiful capital region, including parliamentarians, with regard to this issue, which needs a new breath and a true vision, beyond the institutional mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u45	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor to raise her question, No. 15, on the absence of a departmental reception scheme for Travellers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u46	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, to the difficulties encountered by the municipality of Saint-Cassien, in my constituency in Isère, due to the repeated occupation of several municipal lands, including the football field, by members of the Traveller community. Each year, Saint-Cassien undergoes several times the unauthorized installation of sixty to eighty caravans. These illegal occupations generate many expenses: water consumption via connections to fire stations, connections – which can be particularly dangerous – on electrical transformers, the provision of containers for waste, and the rehabilitation of the land after the occupants leave are still at the expense of the town hall and the inhabitants. In the absence of a departmental scheme for the reception of Travellers, which exists, this community has no recourse, even if the non-compliance with this plan is beyond its control. In some cases, private land is also occupied. I was thus arrested by a farmer who saw one of his fields occupied, for the second year in a row, by eighty caravans for fifteen days. He was unable to harvest his second cut and had to restore his land at his expense. What is problematic is not the possibility of welcoming the Traveller community, who are entitled to decent and appropriate reception conditions. In fact, in most cases, the facilities are lawful and do not give rise to any disturbance in our territory. The problem here is that the departmental scheme is delayed and that the cities concerned are unable to find suitable solutions. Thus, a very small municipality is obliged to bear the material and financial costs of this failure. Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, what can be proposed to small municipalities in an area where no departmental scheme is applied and which must suffer the consequences of this failure alone?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u47	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u48	Member, the Act of 5 July 2000 lays down the applicable provisions for the parking of Travellers. The purpose of this text is to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the legitimate aspiration of travellers to be able to park in good conditions, and, on the other hand, the equally legitimate concern of local elected officials to avoid illegal facilities that could infringe property rights and cause public order disturbances or significant costs to communities. This balance must be based on respect for each of its rights and duties. It is also the responsibility of the municipalities and the EPCIs to carry out reception areas, a legal obligation formalized in the departmental scheme for the reception of Travellers, which constitutes the pivot of the system of formalisation and forced evacuation. Municipalities and EPCIs that comply with their obligations can use the administrative procedure of formal notice and forced evacuation in case of illegal occupation disturbing public order, provided for by the law of 5 July 2000 and recently improved by the law of 27 January 2017 on equality and citizenship. In the case on which you are questioning me, the commune of Saint-Cassien is part of the community of agglomeration of the Pays Veronnais, which does not respect its obligations with regard to the departmental scheme for the reception of travellers. Consequently, the municipality of Saint-Cassien cannot use the administrative procedure of forced evacuation. It is the responsibility of the elected representatives of the urban community of the country, which has the compulsory responsibility for the development, maintenance and management of reception areas for Travellers, to bring themselves into line with the departmental plan for the reception of Travellers, which is being revised, in order to be able to implement the legal tools at their disposal. In the immediate future, the legal conditions of detention followed by forced evacuation are not met, and the departure of Travellers in irregular parking can be obtained through ordinary judicial channels. If the occupied land belongs to the public domain, the legal person who owns it may refer the cases to the administrative judge. In the case of dependence on the private domain of a public person, the courts must be brought. Finally, in the case of private land, the owner may refer the matter to the President of the High Court for a preliminary ruling. That is the situation. The simplest solution would, of course, be for the local community in the country to carry out the facilities necessary to bring it into conformity, which would allow for the rapid exercise of remedies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u49	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor to put his question, No. 28, on the digital coverage of Vienna.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u50	I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, who is in charge of digital technology, to the difficulties faced by many companies, healthcare and training establishments, as well as simple users in the southern rural areas of the Department of Vienna, in obtaining adequate access to mobile telephone networks. The launch of the call for projects "800 strategic mobile sites" in April 2016 brought together the sites of several municipalities, including Payroux and Romagna, located in my constituency, on the France Mobile platform, as part of the first two waves of investigation. The corresponding files were transmitted, in connection with the services of the prefecture and the Digital Agency. To date, two unanswered opinions have been issued for these two municipalities, without further explanation. I'm worried about this decision. The Payroux site was intended to cover the three medical-social institutions located on its perimeter: a care facility for dependent elderly persons, an annex to the psychiatric hospital of the Laborit Centre in Poitiers and a post-care facility to combat alcoholic addiction. All of these establishments in a small rural municipality require appropriate support, including measures to combat the isolation of patients and residents, not to mention their families, often very remote. I am also thinking of the relationship between health services, medical emergencies or ambulatory care, which are the victims of this situation. The other site, in the nearby municipality of Romagna, concerns the second tourist park of Vienna, where most of the 200,000 visitors book more and more frequently from their mobiles. All those interested – families, tourists, health professions, elected officials, residents – complain regularly and rightly about very poor mobile coverage, a situation which can also cause problems, particularly for the action of the security services and the urgency of care. Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, how can we explain that two such singular sites, in a particularly poorly equipped rural environment, are still excluded from access to this technology, which has already been part of the daily lives of most French people for a long time? The digital divide is now a double penalty for citizens already affected by the territorial divide. That is why I would like to know – and the communes with me – the precise reason for this silence. Has the Digital Agency classified these requests from the prefecture of Vienna without further action? If so, why? Could you please tell me whether operators have expressed their intention to improve telephone coverage in these municipalities and, if so, within what time frame? Here I am speaking for the above-mentioned communes of Payroux and Romagna, to which I will gladly add those of Joussé, Saint-Léomer and Bourg-Archambault, in my constituency – I have pleasure in quoting them – not to mention those of Roiffé and Ceaux-en-Loudun in the north of the department. Could they hope that this discrimination will cease? It's a cry I'm associating with!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u51	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u52	Mr. MP, mobile coverage of the territories is a top priority of the Government's digital policy. I measure very concretely the impatience of elected officials and inhabitants with regard to the situation that you describe, which is experienced as an unbearable form of enclaving. The objective for the quinquennium is clear: to generalise, by 2020, quality mobile coverage – telephony and 4G – for all situations of daily life, including within buildings, on the main transport routes and on areas of economic activity You refer to the France Mobile national window, launched in December 2016 and managed by the Agence du numérique. This tool effectively provides local elected officials with the opportunity to identify all types of mobile coverage issues. To date, 3,800 cases have been recovered, of which 630 have been investigated. Given your question, I assume that the files that matter to you have not yet been. Here I would like to commend the exemplary mobilization of the Vienna Departmental Council. With regard to the municipalities of Payroux and Romagna, which do present important socio-economic issues, the Free Mobile operator has indicated its intention to improve coverage through equity investments. According to our information, the construction of two new sites is under way, with the activation planned in the first half of 2018. Nevertheless, the Government is aware of the limitations of the current solutions. He shared the observation made by Laure de La Raudière and Éric Bothorel in their parliamentary information report. The thermometer, if I may say, used to qualify mobile coverage is unsatisfactory and leads to frustration and incomprehension of elected officials and citizens. I can tell you that the President of the Republic has engaged in a very firm discussion with the operators. The forthcoming expiry of certain licences provides a unique opportunity for dialogue in order to rethink and re-adjust these devices in the direction of greater transparency and efficiency. With this in mind, the Government has asked the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications and Posts, ARCEP, to work from this year on the renewal of authorizations by incorporating the ambition to cover the entire territory. Proposals were forwarded to this end earlier this week by ARCEP. The Government is in the process of reviewing them to see whether the ambition and means of these proposals are conducive to achieving the goals we have collectively set ourselves, that is, the coverage of the entire territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u53	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u54	I thank the Minister for all these useful clarifications. I believe that the municipalities will be very attentive to the timetable for implementing the measures that have been announced. In any case, you have fully understood that it is really a matter of re-establishing justice for territories that are victims of double discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u55	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to put her question, No 23, on the clean-up of the Braqueville ballast plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u56	I would like to thank the Government for its attentive ear to the problems of our constituencies. The question I ask is particularly sensitive and important for the Toulousans. It has been worrying them for many years as it concerns the clean-up of the Braqueville ballast site, these ponds filled with 5000 tons of nitrocellulose since the First World War to drown the surplus produced by the national powder factory rendered useless by the end of the war – this powder factory was the ONIA, the National Nitrogen Industrial Office, of sinister memory AZF. If water makes the explosive inert, however, it is known that it is highly flammable in dry air and that it is extremely dangerous, it is said, to be equivalent to TNT. These ponds, located near the Oncopole and the former AZF site, expose to the danger of riparians, employees and visitors of the Oncopole, all the more so as new development projects have seen and will see the light of day in the coming years. For example, with a view to reducing congestion in road traffic, a cable car project between Oncopole and Rangueil will, as early as 2020, lead to residents flying over the ballast areas, which requires that this clean-up be carried out quickly. In January 2017, Bernard Cazeneuve announced that a clean-up of the site could take place by 2022. Everyone has obviously welcomed this decision, but we must now implement it and speed up the process. Can you tell us what schedule is envisaged for this clean-up? Once cleared, it is important that this site does not remain empty. Besides the ponds, these 70 hectares could host, for example, a new ambitious development project for the Oncopole, this large anti-cancer center in Toulouse. It would be a very positive prospect for all the Toulousans and that is why I support this project. Can you confirm that a rehabilitation of this site will be possible in the future and that it will be supported by the state?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u57	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u58	Madam Member, you are calling my attention to the future of the ballast site built after the First World War, and reminding you of the promises and commitments of successive governments regarding its clean-up. After the acquisition of the right-of-way by the State from the Société Grande-Paroisse in 2004, the Ballastières site was the subject of a regularisation of its status as a classified facility for the protection of the environment – ICPE – in order, in particular, to control under the best conditions, be assured, the safety of goods and persons. The various measures prescribed in this framework have been implemented and are now strictly monitored by the inspection of facilities classified as general control of the armies. Concerning the cable car project between Oncopole and Rangueil, studies were carried out in 2013 and showed the total absence of incompatibility between the operation of this mode of transport and the activity of powder storage. There is therefore no obstacle to the realization of this cable car, a means of transport of course interesting between the two sites. Furthermore, this site benefits from an exceptional environmental situation, particularly with regard to biodiversity. On the one hand, it is home to several species of fauna and flora protected by France and the European Union: prefectural decree for the protection of biotope; designation as a special conservation area under the Natura 2000 Habitats Directive; Wetland within the meaning of article L.211-1 of the Environmental Code. On the other hand, the southern part of the site is a special protection area under the Natura 2000 Birds Directive; It is also adjacent to an area covered by a prefectural order protecting migratory fish. For these different reasons, this site is strictly and permanently closed to the public, as desired by the Regional and Interdepartmental Directorate of Environment and Energy Midi-Pyrénées. It is an essential Natura 2000 site, particularly in terms of biodiversity, I said. Finally, the ballast site, thus called because of its four artificial ponds, is officially listed as a flood zone corresponding to the area of expansion in the event of a major flood of the river. As such, it is definitely inconstructible. All these elements make any reflection on the reuse of the site more complex, you understand it well, as well as the clean-up and rehabilitation operations. The Ministry of Armed Forces has taken note of the expectations of local elected officials and remains particularly attentive to the adoption and monitoring of the most appropriate measures for the management of the ballast site in the best safe conditions. It should be noted that this site, in the end, has become a high environmental, ecological protection and biodiversity site in Toulouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u59	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u60	Thank you for this clarification, but does that mean that this nitrocellulose will be preserved in the basins? That is the big question. We must also protect human beings!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u61	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u62	All security measures are taken, the site is monitored. Thanks to the proliferation of a rather exceptional fauna and flora, this place is now protected under Natura 2000. You understand that, as is often the case for places with this label, it will no longer be constructable. In addition, it is located in a flood zone. It is therefore important, as a first step, to ensure the safety of the site. The Natura 2000 label makes it difficult to depollution. The stakes are therefore multiple, but we continue, with you, to be attentive to the evolution of this site.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u63	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to raise her question, No. 5, on voluntary military service.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u64	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, my question concerns voluntary military service, the SMV, launched for experimentation in metropolitan territory. Intended to train young people between 18 and 25 years of age for eight months, this scheme, which is expected to be renewed after 2018, allows young people with or without qualifications who wish to do so to accompany them by opening the doors to the professional world, offering them additional training in military life and driving licence. In my city in Châlons-en-Champagne, the SMV has already welcomed 105 young people. For the promotion of a hundred young people, twenty-seven military personnel, a full-time professor and outside actors are mobilized. The links with the business world and training bodies still need to be consolidated, as they are essential to our territory. The investments that have been made in Châlons are the responsibility of both the Ministry of Defence and the local and regional authorities, and they have enabled the introduction of this new form of support for the young people who need it most. At the time of the initial assessment, it turns out that this scheme fully fulfils its objectives of training and integration. Of the young people who have committed themselves, 70% have obtained their driving licence, 84% have validated vocational training and 40% are already in place. In the light of these elements, I would like to know what future the Government reserves to voluntary military service after 2018. What is the relationship between this system and the universal national service, SNU, desired by the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u65	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u66	Madam Member, first of all, I would like to thank you for reminding you of the excellence of voluntary military service and for putting it forward, as I do as soon as I have the opportunity. This scheme is inspired by the adapted military service – SMA – which has existed for many years overseas, and which is dedicated to young French and French people in great difficulty and far from employment. Voluntary military service, which was introduced on an experimental basis in 2015, is a real social and professional integration scheme for young people, as you recalled. It contributes directly to strengthening national cohesion and resilience by embodying and renewing the link between the army and the nation. It enables the young people concerned to acquire vocational training and, above all, know-how for six to twelve months, which gives them an undeniable added value on the labour market. This mechanism works through partnerships with local and regional authorities, on the one hand, companies and the world of work, on the other. Articulated around six centres, voluntary military service will train a thousand young people in 2018, in five different regions. Its cost – given the need to raise this issue – amounts to EUR 30 million, covered by the appropriations of the Defence Mission, which are renewed in 2018. Voluntary military service is a great success, since the rate of employment on exit is 70% – it even exceeds 80% in La Rochelle, where I visited recently. I have seen for myself the commitment of the mentors and trainers who put their know-how at the service of the success of these young people in difficulty, and I would like to pay tribute to them here. This system is based on four pillars: a secure military framework, which offers an appropriate response to young citizens who wish to integrate themselves through a demanding approach; Volunteerism, which marks the accession to the SMV's educational project; acceptance of the constraints of military life; partner accountability and territorial engagement. Anticipated for a period of two years from 1 September 2015, the experiment was extended until December 2018, by the Law on Public Security. Of course, the question of the future of voluntary military service is part of a more general reflection on national service, even if the two arrangements do not have the same objective at all in our eyes. One is based on volunteering and inclusion and is aimed at a target audience, in difficulty, while the other would have a broader vocation, both in terms of objectives and of the public concerned. As you know, nothing has yet been stopped with regard to the universal national service. However, the issue of voluntary military service is well identified, and that is why the ongoing work on the Military Programming Act is considering its extension in the current format. In my view, these two services are complementary. One is aimed at all and can identify young people in difficulty; the other must, in the continuity of the former, target precisely these young people in difficulty. That is the meaning of the reflections that we are currently conducting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u67	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u68	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the answers you have given me. We are convinced, like you, of the complementarity of these two services. It was important for me to ask you this question, because we need to project ourselves into the future on Châlons territory and whether the VMS will be extended. It seems to me that the initial military training provided under the VMS is fully in line with the stated objectives of the universal national service, and that the trainers who supervise the VMS would be fully capable of accompanying young people in the UNS. This would prevent the UNS from becoming an additional burden for our regiments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u69	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor to put his question, No 18, on the water shortage in the Ardèche.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u70	My question is to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. The Ardèche is dry! It's never been seen, probably since 1929! The international marathon of the Gorges de l'Ardèche in canoeing-kayak had to be cancelled, for lack of water, in November; houses crack as a result of prolonged drought; It is Breton peasants who deliver hay to the ardèche peasants; chestnuts have the size of olives; water tables are at the lowest and some farmers do not exclude putting an end to their activity. This is not an umpteenth drought, but a historical phenomenon, which, moreover, is likely to happen again if appropriate measures are not taken to dispose of water when it no longer falls from the sky. This unprecedented climate event affects the entire agricultural world: arborists, wine growers, breeders and castane farmers are the biggest victims. Since March, precipitation has been almost non-existent throughout the department, with the exception of those that have occurred in recent days. In the castaneic sector, which is important for the Ardèche, production fell from 50% to 80%, depending on the holdings. Collateral damage is felt, and not always where it is expected. The wild boars, lacking food and water, have thus invested the cultures, even the city centres, including that of the prefecture city, Privas. The damage they cause creates significant tensions. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of the Armed Forces, it is essential that the Government become aware of the catastrophic nature of the episode that struck the Ardèche, more than any other department. I will certainly not ask you to bring down the rain; I would ask you, on the other hand, to put an end to certain rules, too dogmatic in my opinion, which prohibit storage, even in very small quantities. So I'll have two very simple questions for you. First, can you make sure that the deadlines for the recognition of the state of natural disaster will be reduced to the maximum and that the criteria for compensation will be flexible enough to cover all the damage suffered? Secondly, can the Minister of Agriculture make a commitment to study seriously the requalification of the ardèche mountain in a dry mountain area to help farmers, and to allow storage equipment, which could be limited to 0.2% of the annual rainfall?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u71	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u72	Mr President, I should like to apologize to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who is taking part in the European Council on Agriculture and Fisheries today, and who has asked me to answer you. You are right, many departments experienced a succession of adverse weather events in 2017, including the Ardèche, which was particularly affected by the consequences of drought. The climate summit that is taking place today is all the more important, given the increasing number of worrisome climate incidents in recent years. With regard to drought-related crop losses on grasslands, those affected farmers who do not have insurance for such losses will be eligible for the agricultural calamity scheme, depending on the type of crop. In addition, the procedure for applying for recognition of agricultural drought calamity on fodder was initiated by the Prefect. A file for crop losses was filed with the Minister of Agriculture and Food. This demand covers almost the entire department, with the exception of a fringe to the east, where crop losses were probably less. This request has been considered and does not pose any difficulties. A favourable opinion will be proposed to the members of the National Committee for Risk Management in Agriculture – CNGRA – which will meet tomorrow, Wednesday 13 December. In the face of increasing weather conditions, it is also essential for farmers to be able to carry out their production more broadly through the crop insurance scheme against climate risks. I would remind you that there is a state support scheme, which takes the form of partial coverage of insurance premiums, up to 65%, guaranteed for the 2018 season. Producers also have the opportunity to reduce the deductible rate, or the trigger threshold, in order to have an insurance contract tailored to their needs. In addition, in line with ongoing discussions on risk management, work has been undertaken with agricultural professional organisations, as well as insurers, to identify the obstacles to this development and to explore ways of improving it. In order to support operators who are experiencing economic difficulties at this time, several mechanisms can be mobilised, which you probably already know: the use of partial activity for their employees; a reduction in the tax on unbuilt land for the plots affected by hail – even if, in this case, you are referring to an episode of drought; a deferral of the payment of social contributions from the agricultural social mutual funds. The issue of wild boars, which does not only arise in Ardèche, is indeed becoming a matter of concern, and the departmental plans for cynegetic management drawn up by the departmental federations of hunters are an opportunity to reflect on a better control of these wild boar populations. Finally, you are asking the essential question of our means of action in the face of the absence of rain, in particular through the creation of collinary restraints, which would enable farmers to ensure minimum irrigation. I do not have an answer to the question you are asking about a possible requalification of the ardèche mountain in a dry mountain area, but it seems to me that the Ministry of Agriculture is examining the possibility of creating fine irrigation systems, from small reservoirs, to improve the situation of our farmers. I believe, in any case, that we should continue our reflection on this subject, including in the ardéchois context.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u73	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u74	I would like to stress the issue of water storage, which is the only solution to enable farmers to overcome these extremely difficult times. There is double standards in this country: in some departments storage is permitted, in others, no. It is important to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u75	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to put his question, No. 10, on the free trade agreement between the European Union and MERCOSUR.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u76	My question is also addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. The Cantal is a breeding ground. My department's economic boom, agriculture also allows, with its herders, to maintain the services and social link in our villages. This is a mountain farming, where cattle farming dominates. Its herd has more than 400,000 head, with a predominance of the nursing herd – around 150,000 suckler cows. Today, our farmers are worried; As the Chosen One of the Cantal, I am, too. The free trade agreement between the European Union and MERCOSUR, the Common Market of the South, which could be signed by the European Commission at the end of the year, could mark a market of more than 100,000 tonnes of South American beef. Our farmers do not understand this position of the European Union, they are subject to a series of standards, health and environmental, in particular, more drastic than each other. We all know that if the European Commission makes concessions under this agreement with MERCOSUR, this will inevitably lead to sanitary slippages and a disruption of our agricultural markets. Do I have to remind you that Brazil is now stuck in a corruption case that has led to a vast marketing network of damaged meats? That Russia announced in November the suspension of its imports of Brazilian beef and veal, after growth hormones were discovered there? South American meats come from production systems with little or no health regulation, nor from food traceability and animal welfare. Let us remember that the gigantic farms in South America have contributed massively to the deforestation of the Amazon. According to studies carried out by the National Bovine Federation, imports of combined beef and veal from CETA, the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, and MERCOSUR could lead to the disappearance of 20,000 to 30,000 full-time jobs in the livestock sector. We must not sacrifice our farms and our production model on the altar of ultraliberalism at a time when French livestock farming is suffering and our farmers are no longer living from their work! What measures does the Government intend to take to preserve our farms, jobs and production patterns? With this new agreement between the European Union and MERCOSUR, together with CETA, I fear that Europe will set the course for the disappearance of its cattle farm. Does the Minister for Agriculture and Food intend to set up a new committee of experts to assess the consequences of an agreement between the European Union and MERCOSUR on cattle farming, health and the environment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u77	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u78	Mr President, once again, I would like to apologize for the absence of the Minister for Agriculture and Food. I can assure you that I know the tradition of cattle farming in the Cantal and the importance it has for this department. The Government had established a commission of independent experts to measure the impact of CETA on the environment, climate and health, in order to ensure exemplary implementation of the agreement. On 25 October, it adopted an action plan to this end, which will monitor the economic impact of CETA on agricultural sectors and strengthen the traceability of imported products through sanitary and phytosanitary audit programmes. This action plan also aims to improve the integration of health and sustainable development issues into all trade agreements in order to ensure – as you have pointed out – a better coherence between trade policy and our model of agricultural production, which is both safe for the consumer and engaged in an ecological transition. In this regard, the Government ensures that sensitive agricultural sectors are better taken into account in trade negotiations, by defining, in conjunction with the sector, an overall ceiling of concessions per product and for all negotiations, in particular with MERCOSUR, depending on the absorption capacity of the European market and the sustainability of concessions by the sectors concerned. This action plan envisages the creation of consumer information systems by means of labelling in order to better identify and value quality production methods. As you said, our production methods are demanding and meet the expectations of our society. In this context, it is imperative that imported products comply with social, health and environmental standards at least equivalent to European rules. Therefore, effective safeguard clauses with suspensive effect of flows could be envisaged, on the one hand, in the event of non-compliance with these conditions and, on the other hand, when these flows lead to destabilization of our channels. In particular, with regard to the ongoing negotiation process with MERCOSUR, a balance must be struck between openness and protection. This balance is not reached at this stage. This requires better account to be taken of sensitive products, in particular bovine products, through better sized and segmented quotas; the definition of cross-compliances which guarantee the arrival on the European market of quality products in line with European production methods and a special safeguard clause on sensitive products designed to meet the risk of destabilization of the sectors; obtaining strong assurance on the reliability of the health system of MERCOSUR, taking into account the systemic non-conformities found, notably in the Carne Fraca file. So we really need to be vigilant, and I can assure you that we will.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u79	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u80	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. Nevertheless, you are confident that we will remain very vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u81	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u82	A simple example of CETA: in Canada, only 36 farms producing a total of 65000 tonnes of meat are currently capable of meeting European standards. Look for the error...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u83	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to raise her question, No. 19, concerning the Court of Appeal of Riom.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u84	My question is to Mrs. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice. On 5 and 6 October, Mrs La Garde des Seales launched five judicial reform projects, one of which concerns the judicial card. The conclusions of the ongoing consultation will be presented to him on January 15, before the introduction of a draft law on programming for justice for the years 2018 to 2022. In her recent statements, notably last week in Bordeaux, Ms. La Garde des Seales said: "No place of jurisdiction will be closed". That's what the president of the Puy-de-Dôme department council and I understood during the meeting she gave us at the Chancellery on August 1st. However, the question now arises of maintaining and strengthening a full-fledged Court of Appeal in Riom. The jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal of Riom embraces the contours of the former Auvergne region: it comprises the Allier, the Cantal, the Haute-Loire and the Puy-de-Dôme, four mountain or medium-mountain departments with a total of more than 1.3 million inhabitants. This Court of Appeal therefore responds to a real need for territorial balance. Its immediate or planned disappearance, through its relegation to a delegated court, would result in the creation of a vast judicial desert between Lyon and Bordeaux, a very great distance from our fellow citizens from the places of justice and thus a sharp deterioration of access to rights for them. In addition, the Court of Appeal in Riom carries out a sustained and effective judicial activity, with very satisfactory results: 76% of cases are dealt with in less than a year, which is below the national average; Both the judiciary and the public prosecutor deal on average with a number of cases well above the national average. In the light of these arguments and those we have transmitted to Mrs. Custody of Seals in recent months, can the Government guarantee the maintenance of a full-fledged Court of Appeal in Riom?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u85	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u86	Madam Member, I should like to apologize for the absence of Mrs La Garde des Seales, who participates in the ceremony for the award of the Prix des droits de l'homme de la République française. As you have pointed out, Mrs La Garde des Seales has already had the opportunity to raise the question of the evolution of our judicial network, a subject sensitive to our territories and to all actors in the judicial world. On 5 October, together with the Prime Minister, she launched the five "roads of justice", which reflect our desire to transform the justice of our country. They cover simplification of civil and criminal procedures, effective sentencing, adaptation of the territorial organisation of justice and digital transformation. These changes will necessarily have an impact on the evolution of our working methods and the organization of the courts. We cannot leave it to the status quo: we must evolve our justice to better meet the expectations of the people, reconciling the requirement of proximity – always –, specialization – sometimes – and efficiency – is obvious. To do this, we need to think and dialogue. Ms. La Garde des Seales has asked two former presidents of the National Assembly's Law Commission, Philippe Houillon and Dominique Raimbourg, to carry out a consultation mission on the evolution of the judicial organization with all stakeholders, including lawyers. On the basis of the proposals they will submit on 15 January, we will be able to consider concrete and operational developments, which will find their first translations in the 2018 programming law. In any event, as has already been indicated, the Government's will is clear: the current network of our jurisdictions will be maintained. So there will still be a court of appeal in Riom. Be certain, Madam Member, that the approach is tense towards one goal: to adapt the judicial network to the challenges facing the justice system and to make the best possible service to the people who are litigants under optimal conditions for the players in the judicial world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u87	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for your assistance in this question-and-answer exercise on a subject that is outside your scope. Judging by your comments, the adaptation of the judicial map is well on the agenda but there will be no closure of the site. That is what we understood, as early as 1 August, in the office of Mrs. Keeper of the Seals. But the question I am asking is that of maintaining a full court of appeal in Riom, knowing that we have already experienced reforms and that the trauma of the reform of the judicial map led by Mrs Rachida Dati is still present, particularly in Auvergne, particularly in the department of Allier. The Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, second in France by its population, has particularities. As a result, an Aurillacois now takes four hours to go to the Court of Appeal and four hours to return. There are already medical deserts in our region – the Minister of Solidarity and Health, whose presence I welcome, knows that. We do not want, in addition to this, a judicial desert, which would only remove the justiciable from justice. It is the honour of France to have local courts. As you said, Madam Secretary of State, proximity is important. I have not yet received an answer to my question and I would point out that a demonstration will take place next Friday at 11 a.m. before the Court of Appeal in Riom, at the appeal of the Bar Association. This first demonstration will call for others, because we need a full court of appeal. In view of the indicators I have cited, the Court of Appeal in Riom does not have to be ashamed of its functioning: it does indeed render an efficient service.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u89	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor to put her question, No 25, on the situation of hospitals in Marseilles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u90	The Minister of Solidarity and Health, the Public Assistance-Hospitals of Marseille, the AP-HM, is the flagship of health and research institutions in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. This reference hospital group is France's third largest and second largest university hospital in the field of medical research. Its international reach, particularly in the field of state-of-the-art surgery – for its innovations in cardiology, its expertise in transplants and its research in the field of neurosciences and infectious diseases – makes it a model for many hospitals around the world. In addition to being a flagship of medical research with a world-renowned university centre, the AP-HM provides access to health care for a very large part of the Marseille population, particularly in the northern neighbourhoods and the most deprived neighbourhoods of the city centre. However, Minister, our ship is taking the water. The establishment has suffered for many years from a historical age, which endangers the hygiene conditions of the care provided and increases the psychosocial risks for already highly sought-after staff. The investments made to remedy this burden heavily on the institution's budget, so that it is no longer in a position to continue its indispensable modernisation, which must cover the reception and accommodation buildings, but also, from a functional point of view, the improvement of the care path. The AP-HM team has developed a realistic and constructive funding plan that takes into account the needs and expectations of patients and the socio-economic reality of their environment. However, if its file is not accepted by the Interdepartmental Committee for Performance and Modernization of the Care Supply – COPERMO – the hospital group is likely to disappear permanently. This includes the credibility of the state, the survival of academic excellence, but also, and above all, the long-term viability of the institution. The Marseille context, in particular the particular social fragility of the population, makes this approach even more urgent. The public hospital is essential here because it offers the most fragile an exclusive medical response. Minister, it is not too late: we can still save this facility before those who have brought it to this level of excellence leave the ship, but we must do so today. So, can you give a strong signal to the Marseilles by affirming your support to their public hospital and its staff?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u91	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u92	Madam Member, the objective of a lasting restoration of the financial balance of the AP-HM and the validation of the investment project to modernise the establishment by COPERMO are obviously priorities for the Ministry of Health. The full support of the national level for this large-scale investment project, which will structure and modernise the care offer of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, has recently been reaffirmed to the Director General of the competent regional health agency and to the community of the AP-HM. The inclusion of the project to modernise the APHM in the COPERMO review procedure is effective and will therefore result in the Sanctuarisation of national investment aid. Their amount can be confirmed once the project has passed the various stages of investigation by the interministerial committee, namely the eligibility by COPERMO scheduled for early 2018, then the independent counter-expertise under the aegis of the Office of the General Commissioner for Investment, and finally the examination by COPERMO for final opinion. This national and inter-ministerial approach aims to set ambitious objectives and demanding quality criteria for all hospital investment projects, ensuring both the relevance of the project, the integration of the operation into the regional policy of care provision and the control of public expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u93	Mr Eric Alauzet, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, raised his question, No. 29, on paramedical professions in hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u94	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to ask you about the uncertainties regarding the future of paramedical professions in hospitals, particularly in the field of rehabilitation: speech therapists, massage therapists, occupational therapists, psychomotricians, and even, in another field, nurses. The entry into force on 3 November 2017 of the Decree on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health introduced a concept of partial access to care and allowed the arrival of new professions in hospital. In a context where rehabilitation professionals suffer from insufficient recognition, too low pay and downsizing, such a development tends to accredit the idea of a transfer of tasks. If this is the case, it appears necessary to clarify the hospital project of paramedical care. This development also raises questions and even confuses the responsibility of each professional and the readability of care by hospitalized patients and their families: who does what? Will the delineation of tasks not be too difficult to establish and above all to respect in the organisation and daily life of the establishments? Medical institutions may be faced with the demobilization of rehabilitation professionals who, discouraged, could flee to the liberal sector. This would lead to impoverishment of the paramedical professions in the hospital. For example, the decree of 11 August 2017 formalized the salary reclassification to baccalaureate + 3 for several health professionals, including speech therapists, with a baccalaureate + 5. This decision results in a loss of income of 3228 to 10068 euros per year, depending on their seniority, for speech therapists in the hospital function. For masseur-kinesitherapists, in 2017 it led to a very small wage increase, of 79 euros gross on average. What measures should be taken to ensure that the existence of these professionals, but above all their particular skills, are not only of great use to these institutions?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u95	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u96	Mr President, I know and fully understand the concerns that the presentation of the November 2 order may have raised among health professionals. It is important for me to reiterate to you that I will be particularly attentive to the conditions for the deployment of partial access within our health care system. The process of reviewing the applicants' files will result in the expression of an opinion by each competent commission, but also by the competent order. This second opinion, not provided for in the European Directive, has been planned by the Government in order to strengthen the process of analysis of cases. A decree in the Council of State specified the conditions and modalities for implementation. Records will need to be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Your second question relates to the situation of certain paramedical professions in hospitals, following the decree of 9 August 2017 reclassification to category A. Such a reclassification should have been carried out much earlier. It was therefore necessary to review the situation in order to promote the attractiveness of the professions and recruitment into the hospital public service. This increase is spread over three years and is expected to be completed in 2020. The gain in remuneration for speech therapists, for example, will be far from negligible, since this categorical reform coincides with the index revalorisations provided for in the PPCR protocol – career paths, careers and remunerations. Their gross remuneration, which includes salary and bonuses, will thus increase by more than 300 euros at the first level, and by more than 500 euros at the end of their careers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u97	Mr Eric Alauzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u98	Thank you, minister, for that clarification. I have noted your vigilance regarding partial access and the need to maintain hospital skills, as well as efforts to increase the remuneration of some professionals who have completed three, four or five years of study and may be tempted to go into the private sector, which is much more profitable. I would like to add to my remarks by referring to a report from the Senate, which warned against "the arrival of under-qualified trades that would lead to impoverishment of access to care, contrary to the universality of our health system that is supposed to guarantee equal access to care for all." On October 5, 2017, the Senate Committee on Social Affairs removed the provisions introducing partial access to health professions, taking into account the risks to the coherence, quality and safety of our health care system. Your vigilance is therefore absolutely necessary. Finally, with regard to remuneration, I have referred mainly to professionals working in the field of rehabilitation, but nurses are particularly concerned. They fear that this evolution will lead to the disorganisation of our health system and the "parcellisation" of knowledge and skills, which seems to run counter to the reengineering process of nursing training: on the one hand, we are trying to revalue and redefine these professions; on the other hand, partial access will lead to their fragmentation. Admittedly, delegations and task transfers are possible; In principle, that is not shocking. But it is important that everyone has a clear vision of the future of our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u99	Mrs Mireille Robert, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, raised her question No 30, concerning the financial contribution of the protected adults to their legal protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u100	The Minister of Solidarity and Health, more than 700000 elderly and disabled people are placed under guardianship or guardianship. Of these, 400,000 are accompanied by representatives; the others are entrusted to their families. The State provides a large part of the funding for the legal protection exercised by the agents. The protected majors contribute according to their income. The President of the Republic indicated in his programme his determination to "improve the legal protection of adults and to develop the means of guardianship services in order to enable individualized supervision of these persons. The 2018 Finance Act provides for an increase in the participation of protected majors in their protection measures. Participation rates should be raised and the current deductible abolished for persons with a higher level of resources than the amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH. If the most precarious, i.e. those with an income equal to or less than 810 euros, continue to be exempt, all those who receive more than this amount would see their participation increase. Aude is the second poorest department in France. Audoese tutoring associations have asked me about the consequences of such a measure on these already fragile people, nearly half of whom have incomes below the poverty line. Some federations propose to introduce a linear increase in participation in order to eliminate threshold effects and not to disadvantage the poorest. The deductible equal to the AAH amount would then be retained and the small income would be poorly affected by the increase in participation. Minister, could you clarify how this financial contribution is reviewed and how it affects the protected majors? Could you also give us your opinion on the abolition of the franchise?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u101	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u102	Member, the amount of the legal protection credits for adults, excluding support for family guardians, entered in the draft finance bill for 2018 amounts to 644 million euros. In order to give a little more financial scope to the legal protection system for adults, the performance of the system of financial participation of the major protected persons must be significantly increased, which means that the scale of participation must be reformed. This revision is included in the 2018 Finance Bill and is expected to be implemented in April of this year. The reform will incorporate several regulations currently in force that do not comply with administrative jurisprudence and certain principles specified in the Act of 5 March 2007. Thus, the financing legislation must respect the following principles: capping of the person's participation at the cost of the measure; defining the reference costs of protective measures on the basis of indicators common to all legal agents for the protection of adults – MJPM – and on the basis of common calculations; Finally, the introduction of participation ceilings for protected persons corresponding to the reference costs. The current scale does provide for a deductible for incomes below or equal to the amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities. Thus, regardless of the income level of the person, the levy is made on the share of income greater than the amount of the MAH. The new scale of participation, which needs to be agreed with stakeholders in the sector, has not yet been adopted. However, if it is planned to abolish the franchise, the Government wishes to maintain the exemption from participation for persons with incomes below or equal to the AAH and to limit the amount of participation of those with a slightly higher level of resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u103	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u104	Thank you, minister, for that clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u105	Mr Fabrice Brun, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No 8 concerning the situation at the hospital in Aubenas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u106	The Minister of Solidarity and Health, our hospital centres, which are linked to our local doctors and hospitals, are the cornerstone of our regional health organization. This is particularly true in my constituency, which extends from Mount Gerbier of Jonc to the gorges of the Ardèche. Unfortunately, the "Touraine" law of 26 January 2016, passed with the complicity of the deputies of the majority of the previous legislature, carried a very bad blow at the hospital of Aubenas, by erecting the hospital of Montélimar, in the neighbouring department of the Drôme, "support hospital" of our hospital group of territory. The Ardèche, which has 320,000 inhabitants, has the sad privilege of being one of the only departments of France without a supporting hospital, while the neighbouring Lozère, populated by 76000 inhabitants, has a supporting hospital in Mende. In total, 135 hospital groups in France, and not a specific one in the department of Ardèche! We do not accept this genuine guardianship, which is unanimously denounced by the health actors in our life pool. Indeed, the announced convergence of resources towards supporting hospitals poses a major risk of weakening the technical platform of the hospital centre in Aubenas, which may have difficulties in recruiting new doctors. However, the issue of medical attractiveness is a key to the future. It is my responsibility to alert you, Madam Minister. Do you know the reality of the conditions of transport and transfer of patients in one of the most landlocked basins in France? Are you going to confirm to me your willingness to maintain the current activities of the hospital centre in Aubenas, without hindering the development of new activities, both in cancerology and in other disciplines?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u107	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u108	Mr Member, the aim of local hospital groups is to implement a strategy for shared and graduated care of patients in a territory or a basin of life, with the aim of ensuring equal access to safe and quality care, guaranteeing the population a proximity offer as a reference and recourse offer. This objective may lead the territorial hospital group to organise the pooling of functions or transfers of activities between institutions. Such an approach should in no way be understood as a "custodial" of an institution by the supporting institution. With regard to the particular situation of the Southern Ardèche hospital centre, the decision to set up the territory hospital group within its current perimeter was taken in 2016, after consultation of the actors of the life pool defined at the time. The role of the institution in its territory and the range of insured activities are in no way called into question within the framework of the existing regional health project. This reflection cannot be fruitful if each institution focuses exclusively on maintaining all its own activities: the positioning of activities must be able to be determined with a view to improving the public service at the group level and ensuring the safety of care. The lines of work are not specific to the establishment of local hospital groups, but may have been defined well in the past: health routes or medical routes between these different hospitals have sometimes been identified. This is the case, in particular, of cooperation in biology between the sites of Montélimar, Privas and Aubenas, for which reflections have not been completed since 2014. Discussions between local actors continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u109	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u110	Thank you for your answer, Minister. We are obviously convinced of the interest of hospital cooperation, provided, however, that a strong base is guaranteed in Aubenas. I stand at your disposal and that of your services to find together concrete complementary solutions for our health basin, whose specificities and peculiarities are real. It is indeed one of the most landlocked basins in France, with mountain areas and isolated slopes. In addition, the seasonal peak is very large, as the basin increases from 100,000 inhabitants per year to 300,000 during the tourist period. It also includes the oldest population in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, with a centuries-old tradition of hosting disability that is proud while requiring a special care offer. Finally, it is the last pool of jobs in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It will not have escaped you that the Aubenas Hospital, with 1200 employees, is the first employer in this basin of life. I would also like to pay tribute to the daily commitment of the agents. However, the previous government did not take into account many of the particularities of this health basin. I hope that we will work together to ensure that they are, at last, in the service of access to the care of all the Ardéchois.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u111	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Larrivé, to put his question, No. 12, on emergencies at the hospital in Auxerre.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u112	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, on behalf of the people and all the elected representatives of Yonne gathered, I would like to alert you very directly once again about the organisation of the emergency system in this department. We reject the assumption of regionalisation of the organisation of emergencies, namely their transfer from Auxerre to Dijon. I will ask you three questions, which I would be grateful if you would answer as precisely as possible. First question: Do you keep the helicopter from the hospital in Auxerre within it? Second question: Do you maintain the 15th day regulatory centre within the hospital in Auxerre? Third question: do you agree to work with us, in particular with the president of the hospital's supervisory board and the president of the SDIS – the departmental fire and rescue department – on the assumption that Centre 15 and Centre 18 will be pooled in a joint regulatory platform within the hospital centre in Auxerre? These are the three points that we consider essential in terms of proximity and public health. I would add that we are concerned about the tone of the statements, even this morning in the regional daily press, of the director of the RSA – regional health agency – who seems to us to have preconceived ideas on these issues leaving little room for consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u113	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u114	Mr President, I am regularly asked your question in many territories. As you know, access to care is one of my priorities. However, we must not hide our face: medical demography is declining today, so that our ability to provide high-quality emergencies across communities and cities can be a problem. That is why we want to reorganize the provision of care, particularly emergency care, to meet the challenges of quality and safety of care for the population. You are asking me in particular about the department of Yonne and the transfer of Centre 15, which is indeed planned in the future regional health project. The direct effect of regulating calls from Centre 15 of the Yonne to Centre 15 of the CHU of Dijon will be to release the equivalent of six emergency doctors in the Yonne, immediately available to patients in the Icauna emergency services, thus improving their functioning, including the permanence of care at night. I stress that the region has a solid experience in this area: this organisation is already in place in Franche-Comté where the centre 15 of the CHU de Besançon effectively regulates the calls of the 15 of the four French-Comtois departments – Doubs, Jura, Haute-Saône and Territoire de Belfort. Mr President, you have also referred to the mutualisation of centres 15 and 18: if it has been envisaged for a period of time, it has not been retained because it does not provide any solution to the problem of the human resources of emergency workers because the SIDS do not have them. On the other hand, there is no provision for the closure of the heliported service. We do not wish to deprive the Yonne territory of the helicopter currently based there, but instead to intensify the use of the helicopter equipment currently available on the regional territory, in order to free up time for the ground medical teams. This will require the definition of a regional doctrine of the use of heliported means and the mutual management of the devices available so that at every moment it is the apparatus best placed that intervenes, regardless of its connection site. A meeting with the Director of the SRA is scheduled for December 19th, in order to shed light on all these points. Mr President, I hope I have been able to remove some of your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u115	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u116	Alas no, Madam Minister, except for the question of the helicopter, which sees the maintenance of the status quo – it is clear. On the other hand, with regard to the organisation of regulation, you are in contradiction with a speech that the President of the Republic recently delivered to firefighters. The Head of State, you will read again this speech, which you know, pleads for the mutualization between call centres 15 and 18. That's why Guy Ferez, Mayor of Auxerre, Christophe Bonnefond, President of SDIS, and I propose today, in 2017 – not 2015 or 2014 – a solution to pool centres 15 and 18 within the hospital centre of Auxerre. In the coming weeks, we will continue to work on this option technically, in the hope, perhaps, of changing your mind. It is a matter of maintaining a real emergency outreach service in the Yonne department – I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u117	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to put his question, No. 7, on pharmaceutical prescriptions and the role of pharmacists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u118	On July 12, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, you made an order to place codeine and other opium derivatives on the list of prescription-only drugs. This decision was intended to restrict the use of codeine by young people in recreational cocktails based on antihistamine and soda, known as "purple drank", which unfortunately resulted in several deaths. In fact, this massive relisting of medicines deprived the official council of means of action and narrowed the scope of intervention of pharmacists, thereby devaluing their advisory role. Indeed, while many drugs fall under the medical prescription, some can be dispensed on the advice of the pharmacist and respond to a patient's request for minor pathologies, without requiring medical consultation. The order tends to focus on ad hoc diversions of use in spite of the general interest. That is why, Madam Minister, I would first of all like to know whether a withdrawal from the order is being made in favour of another solution that enhances the pharmacist's advisory role, while preserving the health of young adults. Most recently, the national order of pharmacists has proposed the creation of a category of medicines known as "pharmaceutical prescriptions", similar to those used in Switzerland or Canada. I would like to know your opinion on this proposal. Minister, the profession needs security, stability and recognition. The pharmacist is not a grocer: he is a qualified and competent health professional. How do you plan to improve its role in the patient's care path?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u119	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u120	Mr President, the abuse of psychotropic drugs is constantly evolving, particularly with regard to codeine-based medicines. As you know, in recent years there has been a proliferation of the so-called "purple drank" phenomenon among minors and young adults, which has resulted in deaths. On July 12, I actually signed an immediate-effect order listing all drugs containing codeine on the list of prescription drugs: I do not regret it, because there have been no deaths since it was published. From now on, patients will only be able to obtain a codeine-based medicine with a medical prescription. This measure responds to the difficulty in the larger cities in clearing up the time of the pharmaceutical board, which is more readily available in the territories where the pharmacist knows his patient better. However, the role of the official pharmacist as a primary care provider and his pharmaceutical expertise must be further valued and used, particularly in view of the ongoing outpatient shift and the increase in medical deserts. That is why, since 6 October, nearly 3,000 pharmacists have been carrying out, for example, vaccination against seasonal influenza. This experiment will be amplified. Convinced of the interest of this new role of official pharmacists, I will make every effort to accompany them in new offers of services. For example, consideration could be given to the management by pharmacists of common pathologies on the basis of decision-making trees based on proven data and on a consistent evolution of the method of remuneration. A more comprehensive reflection on the levers to be implemented in order to make the quality of out-of-pocket dispensation more homogeneous for all medicinal products should be undertaken at the same time. It may concern medicinal products with compulsory medical prescription and optional medical prescription. Work is under way. I do not today adopt the term "pharmaceutical prescription" as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u121	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u122	I thank you, Minister, for all the attention you pay to the role of the agencies and the territorial mesh that we care about, especially in view of the medical desertification that we have been experiencing over the past few years. Of course, I agree with you and stand at your disposal if you wish to organize an ad hoc working group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u123	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to put his question, No 4, on the situation at the hospital in Douai.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u124	On 24 October, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, I was already calling on you, here, to hear the warning and suffering of health workers and patients. It must be noted that, throughout the country, public hospitals are on the brink of the nerve crisis. I am thinking particularly of those in Bastia, Rennes, Châteaubriant, Évron, Montluçon or Saint-Denis: all these establishments are currently experiencing strike movements to defend working conditions and access to care. More specifically, I would like to ask you about the fate of the hospital in Douai, located in the heart of a territory where all the indicators are red in terms of employment, housing and health. During a recent on-site visit, I was able to see how much tension this facility is under. Important Turnover between services where it is necessary to constantly close the holes in the emergency, abnegation of the staff to the task to the detriment of their social and family life, loss of sense of work, questioning of leave, counter of overtime which explodes without any recovery or payment: these are some elements of daily life in the hospital of Douai. For several months, stress has also increased among the teams. The institution's debt has increased by 3 million in one year to 4.7 million today. The hospital in Douai is lagging behind in the race for the medical acts imposed by the T2A – activity pricing – when it is taken in between the Lille, Lens and Valenciennes establishments and is subject to competition from the private sector. Last year, the loss of activity due to reports of EPC – an enterobacteria producing carbapénomases –, a bacteria resistant to all antibiotics, is estimated at almost half a million euros for this establishment, which has always followed the constraints of ARLIN – a regional office for the control of nosocomial infections – even if it refuses to accept patients. As the hospital does not have specific services related to infectious diseases, more and more reports of patients with PCE significantly affect its functioning. There are many concerns that the return to balance may result in bed sleep, non-renewal of CSDs, redeployment of staff to reduce payroll, or privatization of cross-cutting activities such as catering, technical services, and hospital laundry. All these choices would be fatal not only for employment but also for the care offer of our territory, as they would endanger the very future of the hospital. As we approach the end of the year, my simple question calls for a clear answer. Are you ready to release an emergency financial envelope for the Douai Hospital, with a view to a catch-up plan that takes into account not only the complex financial situation of the institution but also the important health needs of our territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u125	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u126	Mr President, the hospital in Douai is the central establishment of a neighbourhood with more than 248 000 inhabitants. It provides comprehensive care in medicine, surgery, obstetrics, paediatrics, psychiatry and geriatrics. The building was rebuilt in 2008. Since October 14, 2014, as you know, the hospital in Douai has entered into a management dialogue with the ARS following a report by the Regional Chamber of Accounts. In 2015, the institution therefore reduced its capacity by 28 beds and equivalent staff. This trend relates to continuing care services, surgery, paediatrics and obstetrics. Today, as part of the ambulatory shift we want, the share of full hospitalizations is decreasing and that of day hospitalizations is increasing. For example, we found that between January and July 2017, the number of full-time stays decreased by 1.7% compared to 2016. On June 2, the institution submitted a new comprehensive multi-year funding plan, in which it reported that it had put in place an internal efficiency plan for the period 2017-2019. This action plan, which will enable it to improve its budget balance by €6 million, provides for €3 million in savings of expenses and €3 million in new revenue linked to the development of activity of stays and external acts. Thus, the return to balance will be possible as early as 2019, and not in 2021 as originally planned. Mr President, the debt we are talking about is due in particular to the almost total reconstruction, between 2003 and 2013, of the real estate structures of the hospital in Douai housing the services of psychiatry, medicine, surgery and obstetric gynaecology, logistics and EHPAD – accommodation for dependent elderly. I would like to point out that all the investments were accompanied by capital aid paid during the construction phase. The establishment continues to be supported by the payment of operating aid, of which more than EUR 8.3 million is among the highest in the region. Also, as you can see, MP, the SRA is well present to help the Douai hospital centre, whose pivotal role it has at the heart of this basin of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u127	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u128	Minister, I cannot be satisfied with your answer. Tomorrow, I will meet with the ARS to discuss this situation. The hospital in Douai is in deficit and needs an additional appropriation, both for this year and for future years. At Douai Hospital, the situation is dramatic and the suffering is enormous. This does not only concern the Douai hospital: all hospitals now show their anger and suffering. No, I can't be satisfied! I'll call ARS and I'll keep fighting for this hospital. It is the entire Douai basin that is suffering, as you yourself have said, Madam Minister, in our regional daily. I repeat, I am not satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u129	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to put his question, No 6, on the teaching of gallo.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u130	Minister of National Education, since you honour us with your presence, I would like to begin, once it is not customary, by congratulating you and paying tribute to you for the way in which you conduct your ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u132	You carry out your duties seriously, conscientiously and competently. I, who have been a member of Parliament for ten years, really appreciate the tone you give to your mandate. You honour not only politics, but also senior public servants, since you come from the senior public service. I wanted to tell you. Minister, I want to talk to you about the regional languages, especially the Gallo. In Brittany, in fact, we have two regional languages: Breton, spoken in the western part of our region, and Gallo, spoken in the eastern part. Since 1983, Gallo has been the subject of an option at the baccalaureate. It is taught at college, high school and university by practicing speakers. But today this teaching is weakened – I would even say it is at risk – because we are faced with a problem of renewal of teachers capable of teaching gallo. The situation is becoming critical. Mr Minister, on behalf of the 200000 speakers of the Gallo, who transmit the historical, cultural and oral heritage of Brittany, and on behalf of the lovers of regional languages, I ask the Government to set up a training of Gallo teachers, which could result in the creation of training modules at the higher school of professorship and education in Brittany, under the aegis of national education, or by the creation of a certificate of aptitude for the teachership of second degree education – CAPES – of gallo.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u133	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u134	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your introductory statement, which affects me. I also thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to say how important I am to regional languages. In this Chamber, I was led to stress the unity of the French language when I had to talk about respect for grammar, especially at school. This is in no way contradictory to the importance of regional languages – quite the contrary! In the linguistic life of our country, there is on the one hand the French language and on the other the regional languages. The eight metropolitan regional languages and the five ultramarine languages are a wealth for France and are part of our heritage. As such, they deserve the full attention of the Ministry of National Education. This year we are launching the first session of the external aggregation of languages of France. One position is open in Breton, which I welcome. As you know, the Gallo teaching is jointly supported by the Rennes Academy and the Brittany region. Optional education, from the sixth to the final grade, is organized in five colleges and six public high schools in three departments. It concerns about 500 students. Gallo can be chosen as an optional option at the baccalaureate; 229 students in 2016 and 239 students in 2017. On 14 December 2015, the Rector signed for the State, alongside the Prefect, a "specific convention for the transmission of the languages of Brittany and the development of their use in everyday life" with the President of the Regional Council of Brittany and the Presidents of the Universities of Western Brittany and Rennes 2. In this context, the State is committed to filling vacancies in existing courses, to raising awareness of the regional language and culture in the first degree and to increasing the provision of training in the second level. The Academy is also committed to disseminating educational resources for the learning of Gallo and the discovery of Gallese culture, to facilitate the intervention in schools of gallant animators from the community, and to promoting the professionalization of gallant students in order to expand this pool of speakers. In addition, in initial training, Gallo is taught at the University of Rennes 2, either as an optional continuation option or as a language teaching unit. Finally, as part of the roadmap "Regional Languages and Cultures 2017-2021" adopted by the Rennes Academy, schools and schools in the eastern part of the Academy are encouraged to develop cultural components, sports modules, games and heritage projects based on the Gallese language and culture. For the 2017-2018 school year, this initiative is reflected in a training offered to teachers of the schools of Ille-et-Vilaine: two two-day sessions were planned, bringing together 19 trainees per session, on the Gallese language and culture and the implementation of educational projects based on the Gallo and its cultural components. As you can see, honourable Member, we take this subject very seriously. Be assured that the Rennes Academy will continue its efforts in the coming years, in connection with the regional council, to ensure the transmission of the gallo in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u135	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u136	Minister, I thank you, of course, for your answer. I am counting on you and on your skill! I know that the Minister of National Education cannot be concerned about everything, but if the State can be a driving force on this issue, particularly in the regions, its assistance will be valuable. This is our Breton heritage! I am naturally Republican and Democratic. As a Member of Parliament, I represent all my fellow citizens. This does not prevent me from being attached to our roots, to our history and to our culture, while being open to the European question. That is why I have tabled, together with other parliamentarians, a proposal for a constitutional law to ratify the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages – a subject that we will have to discuss again. I really wish that we could, perhaps under your auspices, Mr. Minister, bring stakeholders together to discuss initiatives that could be implemented at regional level in order to strengthen the training of Gallo teachers in Brittany. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u137	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No 17, on road code learning in school curricula.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u138	Minister of National Education, thank you for your presence. I would like to ask you about the possibility of introducing road code learning into school curricula and taking the examination as part of the official national education programmes. This is an idea that I have been wearing for some time and that I had already proposed in the Macron debate. In keeping with my commitment, I launched a citizens' petition on this issue, which collected nearly 500 signatures. Allow me, Minister, to present my arguments in favour of this request. As you know, the theoretical test of driving licences, which is a prerequisite for driving tests, is an essential passport for young people, especially in rural areas. From a practical and logistical point of view, there is no obstacle to the implementation of my proposal: the computer rooms capable of hosting groups already exist and the courses could be delivered, at least in the first instance, by outside actors without shadowing the cars. From a pedagogical point of view, again, there is no shortage of arguments. Not only would these teachings be part of the continuity of safety learning from elementary school, but they would also be involved in learning good behaviour. You know that, minister, we behave at the wheel as we behave in life, and vice versa. The adaptation of his behaviour is, moreover, an integral part of fundamental knowledge, in the same way as reading, writing and calculation – the entrepreneurs we meet constantly remind us of it. But the first thing we learn in the road code is to behave well. It is also important to link school teachings with their practical application in everyday life. The learning of the road code is a perfect illustration of this: it would, in a way, make our young people better understand that it is useful to make the effort to learn. From an economic point of view, in our rural areas where mobility is a prerequisite for access to employment, the impact of such a measure is not neutral. In concrete terms, candidates could very well pass the theoretical test as part of an agreement between your ministry and the driving schools. On November 16, 2016, candidate Emmanuel Macron declared: "I want to release the energy of those who can, and at the same time I want to protect the weakest. The mechanism that I propose is intended to become an effective tool that will help break the barriers that stand against the autonomy and therefore the full citizenship of our youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u139	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u140	Mr President, I thank you for this extremely interesting question, which indeed refers to a number of issues specific to our education system and to our society. As you know, our education system already provides, to some extent, for road safety education. Article L. 312-13 of the Education Code prescribes road safety education in first and second degree education. You are right, road safety education fully participates in the citizen training of students. It is designed as a progressive and coherent education that begins at school, with the certificate of first road education – APER – and continues at college, with the school certificates of road safety levels 1 and 2 – ASSR 1 and 2 –, at high school and in apprenticeship training centres, through the half-day of road safety awareness. The approach to the learning of road safety rules by students is therefore primarily educational. This is why the Ministry of National Education, in conjunction with this apprenticeship, is implementing other educational measures, particularly as part of the health education course, to inform students of the danger of using psychoactive products while driving. The aim of road safety education is to enable students to acquire responsible behaviour in the road area. I fully agree with you, honourable Member: what is learned in terms of road safety is more generally valid for behaviour in society. These teachings are therefore not only conceived as a learning of the road code, which a priori falls within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. However, of course, your ideas deserve to be studied. It has already been proposed to organize the passage of the theoretical tests from driving license to high school. As you know, the period of high school is marked by the preparation of the baccalaureate and the construction of a professional career. The Ministry of National Education therefore carefully looks at the idea of introducing a new examination without direct connection to the baccalaureate: when combined, good ideas of this kind can indeed prove counterproductive for our students. In addition, the organization of a road code education needs to ask the question of the personnel providing this training. The law on economic growth, activity and equal opportunities allows training bodies to use the premises and facilities of high schools outside of school time. Such use shall be subject to the advice of the board of directors of the establishment and, where appropriate, to the agreement of the community owning the buildings. Establishments that identify training needs for the theoretical tests of driving licences can therefore already take advantage of this provision. This is an initial answer to your question, Mr. Member. At the same time, we are currently considering the possibilities for the development of vocational education and baccalaureate in general. In this context, it is important for us to take your ideas into account. You may also request to be heard by the persons currently in charge of this consultation. In my opinion, your idea is interesting, but you have to measure all the ins and outs of it. We need to be careful. In any case, thank you for asking me this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u141	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u142	Thank you for your answer, minister, and for your interest in this question. Mobility is a major problem in rural areas. It is also a social problem: passing the road code represents a certain sum for a family. Whether it can be acquired at the end of school, in high school or in a learning centre, would therefore constitute a great social advance for our rural territories. The question of learning behaviour and learning effort is often debated in our society, without deciding whether or not to integrate it into school curricula. The insurance sector, which is very interested in this issue, would be prepared to finance the acquisition of driving licences in high schools, together with the regions, in order to give itself the means of such an advance. A passport for employment, a driver's licence is an essential element for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u143	The next speaker is Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, to put his question, No. 21, on the opening up of the Gers department.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u144	Minister responsible for transport, France has a department which has no motorway kilometres, which has no airline and whose prefecture is one of the few, if not the only one, not to be connected to a metropolis by a major road axis. Of course, a train runs from Auch to Toulouse, but it takes an hour and thirty to travel 75 kilometres. This department is the Gers. The rural department, however, remains a dynamic, innovative territory at the crossroads of major economic centres, whose opening up would considerably strengthen the attractiveness while reducing congestion in Toulouse's metropolis. Of the 75 kilometers of the RN 124 connecting Toulouse to Auch, 20 kilometers remain in two tracks. The complete layout of this section in two double lanes, repeatedly announced in the past and repeatedly postponed, advances at the best of two kilometers a year. Since the first studies and works were launched more than twenty-five years ago, it is now a matter of completing what has been started. The municipality of Auch also has another characteristic: it is one of the last capitals to be crossed by a national road. This situation poses problems not only in terms of safety – almost 20,000 vehicles cross the commune every day – but also in terms of ecology. Further studies of its circumvention must be launched. So, Madam Minister, can you confirm to us that these two development projects will be included in the next law on mobility programming that you will be presenting next year and on what date you will be inaugurating the full Auch Toulouse link in two tracks? Finally, I would like to thank you for having recently agreed to have the State services review the solutions allowing the bypass of the city and the neighbouring communes of Nogaro, faced with a worrying influx of heavy goods vehicles crossing their city centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u145	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u146	Mr President, you have drawn my attention to the opening up of the Gers department, which we have already had the opportunity to discuss together. The Government is very attentive to the development of the national road RN 124 between Toulouse and Auch, which constitutes a structural east-west axis for the department. Two operations remain to be completed: the Gimont diversion and the section between Gimont and L'Isle-Jourdain. With regard to Gimont's deviation, the first work started in 2016. This investment of almost 100 million euros is financed both under the programme for the modernisation of road routes for the period 2009 to 2014 and under the current State-Region Plan Contract – CPER. The appropriations entered for the completion of this operation amount to almost EUR 85 million, of which EUR 38 million in State appropriations. Earth-moving work could be started in 2018. In this case, this deviation is scheduled for commissioning in 2021. With regard to the section between Gimont and L'Isle-Jourdain, which will have the status of express route, an envelope of almost 80 million euros is included in the 2015-2020 SPC between the Occitanie region and the State, of which 35 million euros are financed by the State. It should make it possible to finance fully the implementation of twice two tracks of this operation. Detailed design studies of this development are ongoing, as well as the various procedures prior to the commencement of the work. It is planned to start work on this section following the work on the Gimont diversion by 2021. In total, more than 180 million euros will have been invested by the State on the development of the RN 124, which will allow to complete the two-track continuous implementation of the national road between Toulouse and Auch. This important investment, in the budgetary context that you know, Mr.Member, is evidence of the state's commitment to the development of this territory and to the completion of the liberation of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u147	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u148	Thank you, Minister. Once the work is completed, it will be interesting to calculate the overall cost of this operation over 30 years. It would probably have cost local authorities and the State less if it had been designed and developed over a short period of time: it is a teaching for future projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u149	Mr Yannick Haury, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No 24 concerning the development of the axis between Nantes and Pornic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u150	Minister responsible for Transport, I would like to draw your attention to the road between Nantes and Pornic. Over 40 kilometres travel 10,000 to 20,000 cars per day depending on the season; four people have lost their lives since the beginning of 2017. The RD 751 departmental road is particularly unsuitable for the growing traffic flow and has caused far too long a number of often serious accidents, which is no longer bearable. People are increasingly complaining about very significant risk behaviours on this axis and about accidents due to inadequate infrastructure. Recently, a petition for the security of this road collected 7400 signatures. Aware of the high expectations of the population, the elected representatives of the country of Retz approved the realization of the two-lane road on the Nantes Pornic axis. The Loire-Atlantique department, supported by the Pays de Loire region, voted unanimously to double a portion of RD 751. The state began to assume its responsibilities by deciding to install a new mobile radar over a 15-kilometre stretch in early 2018. But this is not enough: the problem of doubling remains complete for about 30 kilometres and the 2030 horizon seems far away in the face of the urgency and the need to improve the route of this road on its entirety. So, Madam Minister, in order to save lives and to respond favourably to the high expectations of the inhabitants, the elected representatives of this territory want the State to engage with the region and the department to ensure that this issue becomes a reality quickly and that national funding, complementary to that of the territorial authorities, enables us to respond without delay to the urgency of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u151	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u152	Mr President, I would like to draw my attention to the need to double-track RD 751 between Nantes and Pornic for road safety reasons. First of all, I would like to point out that since the law of 13 August 2014 on local freedoms and responsibilities, which has been called Act II of decentralization, the State is no longer intended to finance road projects which do not concern the national road network. However, the Government pays particular attention to the capital and development needs of the Territories. That is why I wanted the various working groups to reflect on these issues and propose concrete solutions, not only to reduce social and territorial divides but also to reduce accidents and risks. The poor results of road safety often remind us of the importance of these issues. Mr President, you are calling for more solidarity in the financing of transport infrastructure and for a safer road, in order to facilitate daily travel and the opening up of the territories. Be assured that these concerns are all mine. The conclusions which will be drawn from the work of the Assises will enable the national representation to propose a bill on mobility guidelines, which will integrate them. I know how to count on you, during the intense parliamentary debates which will not fail to take place on this occasion, to ensure that measures are included in the law to respond to them in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u153	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u154	Thank you, Minister, for your response and for your attention to this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u155	Mrs Martine Wonner, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 31, on the major western bypass of Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u156	Madam Minister for Transport, first of all I would like to thank you for giving us the honour of your presence in Strasbourg a few weeks ago in order to launch the Assises de la mobilité dans l'eurométropole. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the importance of implementing measures in conjunction with the major Western bypass project – CGO – in Strasbourg, which is expected to emerge. It is indeed crucial that the peri-urban and rural areas that I represent in my capacity as Member of Parliament for Kochersberg are not forgotten when building this urban highway, which must relieve the Alsatian capital of its traffic. For concern and for the need for fairness, it would be fair for all Bas-Rhinois to enjoy the same quality of transport on a daily basis. The Kochersberg, a rural area with tens of thousands of inhabitants, of which I am elected, on the edge of the Eurometropole, needs attractive, accessible, multi-faceted, flexible, fast and efficient transport. In order to achieve this mobility of the daily life, it would probably be necessary to interconnect all modes of transport between them, to find solutions to simplify, in particular, the journey between the home and the place of work. Investments in this new daily mobility are necessary, because the inhabitants of the peri-urban area of Strasbourg must not become poor parents of the new momentum of transport, to the sole benefit of the great regional metropolis. Minister, I would ask you, therefore, what additional infrastructure will be provided for in the construction of the GCO project, so that the citizens of this electoral district can travel to their work every day in a calm manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u157	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u158	Madam Member, your question highlights your commitment to daily transportation and the necessary connection of the different modes of transport. I can only associate myself with it, recalling that this Government, upon its appointment, has clearly announced the priority given to the improvement and modernization of existing networks. You are asking me more specifically about the planned developments in addition to the realization of the great western bypass of Strasbourg. First of all, I would like to point out that this great project is part of a global strategy: to reorganise and facilitate the flow of travel for the whole of the Eurometropole. It is therefore well planned that it will include several complementary arrangements. I am thinking of the requalification of the A 35 motorway, for which opportunity studies are under way. I am also thinking of the multimodal development of the RN 4-A 351 axis, a project that is at the heart of Kochersberg. This 10 km development of the existing axis, consisting of the RN 4 east of Ittenheim and the A 351 to Strasbourg, provides for an extension of the RN 4 to twice two lanes until the connection with the GCO and the introduction in both directions of a road reserved for public transport, taken on the emergency stop band. The project, which is part of the State-region plan contract for €36 million, is supported by the State for half. It was declared of public utility in 2016 and its detailed design studies are being approved. Work on connecting the project to the large western bypass, carried out in coordination with the Vinci concessionaire's project, is expected to begin in 2019. The operation will facilitate the development of public transport and will be perfectly consistent with other Eurométropole transport projects, including clean site transport in Western Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u159	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u160	Thank you, Minister, for this answer, which shows how attentive the Government is to daily mobility. I believe, however, that we will have to go a little further in innovation. Why not a tax on foreign heavy goods vehicles, similar to the one in Germany, in order to be able to accompany the creation of relay car parks, electric shuttles, in short all kinds of complements conducive to the mobility that our fellow citizens need?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u161	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor to put her question, No. 32, on line 17 of the Grand Paris Express.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u162	Madam Minister responsible for transport, I would like to ask you about the timetable for the implementation of line 17 of the Grand Paris Express; This will not surprise you, for we have already had several exchanges on this subject. Facilitating and improving the movement of the inhabitants of Val-d'Oise and Seine-et-Marne is an absolute emergency. To this end, the commissioning of line 17 to the new stations of the Gonesse triangle and the Mesnil-Amelot, via Charles de Gaulle airport, would be an essential step. Today, the Val-d'Oisiens find it very difficult to move, even if they are 15 kilometres from Paris. They are deprived of efficient public transport links. Traffic conditions on line D of the RER remain difficult; I know you're aware of that. As a result, our citizens have no choice but to use their cars, especially those living in rural and peri-urban areas. The motorway network – A 1, A 3, RN 2 – is totally saturated, especially since and to Roissy. Some structural projects for the territory depend on the implementation of line 17. We do not want employment-providing projects that reduce the social divide to be called into question in a territory that is in great need of them. In addition, mayors have already made significant efforts in the areas of urban renewal policy, social housing diversification and social rebalancing. We now need transport that is unhindered. Line 17 would initiate a new dynamic of territorial development, in particular by allowing to reduce congestion in an area where the A1 passes, the most frequented road axis of France and Europe; improve people's access to employment in a territory where the unemployment rate is 30%; provide a better link between the airport and the two main business districts of La Défense and La Plaine Saint-Denis; Finally, to work towards the ecological transition – which is of particular interest to you – by facilitating the modal reporting of movements. Given the current debates on the Grand Paris Express and the fears of the elected representatives and the inhabitants of Val-d'Oise, could you, Madam Minister, clarify the timetable for line 17 – the only line to serve Val-d'Oise, a territory that has been forgotten for far too long?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u163	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u164	Madam Member, the fears that you and the other elected members of your territory have expressed about the timetable for the implementation of line 17 of the Grand Paris Express – which we have often had the opportunity to talk about – are currently shared by many elected representatives and inhabitants of the French territories. I want to confirm to you that neither the opportunity nor the overall outline of this project is called into question by the Government. The Grand Paris Express is a major challenge in keeping Île-de-France in the forefront of the world's metropolises. Above all, it must make it possible to facilitate the daily mobility of all the Francilians, by favouring the movements that bypass Paris and thus helping to reduce the social and territorial divides. It is an exceptionally large project, the most important one currently being carried out in Europe. It has a strong ambition: at last, to redesign in depth the geography of the capital-region, reducing the opposition between Paris and its suburbs. However, recent developments deserve our attention. On the one hand, the allocation in Paris of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024 requires checking the schedule to ensure that the necessary infrastructures will be delivered in time. On the other hand, the cost of the project was revalued by 40%, or more than EUR 10 billion. In particular, there are major technical difficulties in the basement, which emerged during the preparatory work. In order to identify the best ways to meet these challenges, the Prime Minister instructed the Prefect of the Île-de-France region to take stock of the programme for the implementation of the Grand Paris Express, taking into account all these elements. The prefect submitted his report a few weeks ago. His proposals were being analysed and the Government would shortly announce its choices. Be assured, however, that we collectively wish to preserve the objectives of this essential project for Île-de-France and for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u165	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u166	Thank you, minister, for that clarification. I would like to support my remarks by quoting the speech of the President of the Republic on city policy, which is particularly relevant with regard to the problem we are talking about. "We can see it well, there are territories of the Republic where we have, in a way, concentrated all the difficulties. These have increased all the more since, for several decades, we have had fractures within our territory, which are linked to the economic and social transformation we are experiencing, which is linked to this galloping globalization and metropolization. Metropolization is an opportunity, it is a transformation that we see everywhere in the world, but it is also a challenge because these productive and successful centres have in their midst districts in deep difficulty, where the density is that of metropolises, where the conflicts of use are those of the metropolis, where the difficulties of mobility, concentration are those of a metropolis, but which do not have the pieces of wealth that exist in the metropolitan heart. And so our challenge is also to succeed in radiating these metropolises, distributing wealth better, so that this responsibility of the metropolises can act fully and radiate throughout the metropolitan territory, and not accelerate the inequalities and fractures that we see. » This quote is very striking. For my part, I do not see the difficulties and inequalities in the territory where I am elected: they are already there. The stakes of line 17 include all the elected representatives of the territory, but also my fellow deputies from all sides elected in the adjoining departments of 93, 95 and 77. Thank you very much, so, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u167	Mr Florent Boudié, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 28, concerning the TER Libourne-Bergerac line.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u168	Madam Minister responsible for transport, while the SNCF launched on 1 July last the high-speed line which puts Bordeaux at two hours from Paris, the traffic conditions on the line of TER Bordeaux-Libourne-Bergerac-Sarlat continue to deteriorate for the 700000 passengers who use it every year and for the municipalities served, in particular those of Castillon-la-Battle and Sainte-Foy-la-Grande. The outdated nature of this line is such that SNCF plans to cease operation by spring 2019 if no renovation is undertaken by then. It would be a territorial tragedy – and believe well, Madam Minister, that the term is not Galvaudé. This would be a tragedy because the territories concerned belong to this peripheral France which has suffered so much for ten years. I invite you, Madam Minister, to consult the socio-economic indicators of the rural communes I have just mentioned: all or almost all of them are among the poorest in France. It would also be a form of heresy: how can we understand that the survival of the TER line between Bordeaux and Sarlat is called into question, even though the Bordeaux agglomeration, "boosted" by its city-centre, suffers an unprecedented and uncontrollable road asphyxiation? Renovation of this line is not only a local priority: it is also a priority for a metropolis that is gradually being reduced by the overheating of its road infrastructure. For travellers, the reality is hard: almost three hours of journey to travel 170 kilometres, and intermediate times that ruin the attractiveness of the line and hinder the mobility of the people concerned, often in great social difficulty. Aware of the urgency, New Aquitaine integrated the renovation of the line into the last contract of the State-Region plan for 45 million euros, the first tranche of a complete regeneration estimated, at the time, at 74 million euros. But a new study by SNCF Réseau, delivered last June, has darkened our prospects by raising the amount of the invoice to 91 million euros, which puts the modernisation project, therefore the line itself, at risk. The equation is simple, minister. The first tranche of work of 45 million euros is financed: the region has confirmed its commitments, the sub-regional communities – whose intercommunalities sometimes very modest – contribute almost 7 million euros and the financing of the preliminary summary project study has just been guaranteed by New Aquitaine: it represents a total of 1.9 million euros, a sum that the region and the State will share equally. But the additional costs revealed by SNCF Réseau today block any progress. Madam Minister, can you guarantee that the Bordeaux-Libourne-Bergerac-Sarlat line will not close and that the State will be at the rendezvous of a vital development issue, a priority for a pending territory whose future undoubtedly depends on the development of rail mobility?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u169	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u170	Mr President, the Libourne-Bergerac section, on which you are asking me, is one of the many regional lines in New Aquitaine which are in fact lagging behind in terms of maintenance and regeneration. This is obviously reflected in their commercial speed, but also in the quality of service of the routes provided. The funding needed to upgrade these lines is now considerable at regional level, and this problem is generalizable at national level. However, as you know, I have clearly shown my willingness to give priority to the maintenance and modernisation of networks and to the transport of daily life. The line you are quoting illustrates perfectly the risk of a two-tiered France appearing if we do not radically change our transport policy. However, two factors now lead to the question of the financial capacity that the State can mobilise for the regeneration of the regional lines of the national rail network. On the one hand, the particularly strong constraints on the budget of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, AFITF, today; on the other hand, the priority given to the operations of securing and securing the structuring network. In this context, and in view of the gap between the financial resources available and the needs assessed during the audit of the New Aquitaine railway network carried out in 2016 and 2017, we needed to have a comprehensive and shared vision of the prioritization of the actions to be carried out on all the lines concerned over the next few years. This work is under way under the auspices of the Regional Prefect and the Regional Executive. It should certainly conclude that the Libourne-Bergerac-Sarlat line is a priority, given its attendance and competitiveness with regard to possible road alternatives. The estimate of the cost of emergency work, currently estimated at over €90 million, could be significantly optimized. By the end of 2017, the State will be funding in-depth preliminary project studies to confirm the possibility of this gain in spring 2018. Be assured, honourable Member, of my determination to find solutions to ensure the future of this line.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u171	Mr Florent Boudié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u172	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You are right: the railway upgrade of the entire region of New Aquitaine amounts to 1.3 billion euros, which demonstrates the importance of the delay on the secondary lines. I am pleased that you and the President of the Republic have made the choice to reorient French rail policy and, in particular, to abandon the whole TGV, even if you would not say so in these terms. With this problem there is the question of the sustainable resources allocated to infrastructure financing, as my colleague Martine Wonner said earlier: Madam Minister, we must come to the testing of regional eco-taxes, for which the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region, as you know, is a candidate. We must move very quickly in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u173	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 3, concerning the challenge to the declaration of public utility of the road bypass project in Rouen by the east.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u174	Madam Minister responsible for transport, you have just signed the decree declaring the proposed motorway bypass of Rouen by the east to be of public use. Many associations, elected representatives and the inhabitants of the rural and urban communes directly affected are strongly opposed to this project. Thus, two thirds of the contributions filed during the public inquiry issued negative opinions. The relationship between costs, benefits and nuisances of the liaison project is particularly problematic. Its financial cost, estimated at EUR 1 billion including all taxes, is largely undervalued by the criticisms made by the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities, ARAFER, and by the Autorité de la concurrence, which point to the over-profits generated by the motorway concession companies, which overbill their investment expenditure. For this project, the concessionaire is expected to contribute EUR 500 million of investment, which will be paid for via a toll, the cost of which will divert local users from the small time savings. The public authorities must pay EUR 500 million distributed between the State and local authorities. Already, the Normandy region, the metropolis of Rouen and the département of Seine-Maritime have increased their funds to compensate for the failure of the department of Eure which had the wisdom to withdraw. Uncertainties arise over the expected contribution of EUR 250 million from the State. Indeed, it seeks to save EUR 10 billion in infrastructure financing. A certainty: the local taxpayer, who will benefit from few positive externalities, will have to compensate for a possible financial withdrawal from the state, the inevitable additional costs of the project or the forecast deficit in the operation of the infrastructure. On the merits, CEREMA, the centre of study and expertise on risks, the environment, mobility and development, indicates that road traffic will continue to increase on all the penetrating axes of the Rounnese agglomeration, despite the construction of the equipment. In fact, 90% of transit road flows are oriented to the west of the metropolis and its port area, not to the east. With regard to air pollution, while the impact of the infrastructure will be negligible in the Rouennais hypercentre, the environmental authority foresees that, at certain points in the territory, several health thresholds will be lightly crossed, in particular in terms of emissions of fine particles and carcinogen gases. Similarly, water collection points will be vulnerable to any accident, while providing drinking water to more than 100,000 people. In rural areas, several hundred hectares of agricultural land and forest areas are expected to disappear, while villages are promised additional greenhouse gas-generating urbanization. It is still time to backtrack on this project that does not meet local interests. Other solutions are available to you, such as the completion, with some investment, of a road bypass by the west using existing infrastructure. This territory has under-employed assets which should be exploited: the transport of goods by inland waterway; the rail transport with the triage platform of Sotteville-lès-Rouen today abandoned, while it is connected to the Norman industrialo-portuaire complex; the improvement of the transport supply for passengers in TER, thanks to the strengthening of an TER on a metropolitan scale. In these circumstances, Madam Minister, I am seeking a review of this declaration of public utility, which will be challenged by third parties through court proceedings, and direct listening to local actors for alternative proposals, under the auspices of your ministry and the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u175	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u176	Mr President, the project of circumvention is from Rouen – link A 28 – A 13 – on which you have informed me of your opposition, has been the subject of careful studies and ongoing consultation with the territory. Although this is a complex project, its integration is being given special attention in order to minimize its residual impacts. All the evaluations and technical studies have shown the value of its implementation in responding to the problem of major road congestion faced by the city centre of Rouen, its penetrating axes and the banks of the Seine. The nuisances and insecurity resulting from this convergence of flows now degrade the living environment of tens of thousands of residents. Thus, on the basis of the favourable opinions given by the public inquiry commission in September 2016, and then by the public works section of the Council of State in September 2017, the Government signed and published on 16 November last the decree declaring the construction of this infrastructure to be of public utility. I have noted the strong commitments of local authorities to take over their share of funding. It is certainly an asset for the project. However, since this is a major transport infrastructure project, it is concerned by the pause announced by the President of the Republic on 1 July. Its budget programming and timetable for implementation are currently being examined within the framework of the Mobility Assises, launched on 19 September. The conclusions of this approach will allow the preparation of the mobility guidance law to be presented to Parliament in early 2018, including a programming and infrastructure financing component. The debate on this project will take place there, and I have no doubt about your vigilance on this occasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u177	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 33, concerning the LGV Occitanie.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u178	Minister responsible for Transport, thirty years! The inhabitants of Occitanie have been waiting for their TGV for thirty years. Thirty years that we cannot draw Paris' attention to this matter! And now a poster – to the humour worthy of Hara Kiri, I concede it to you – succeeds where we had always failed: that's what we want to talk about, these thirty years and the colossal sums already spent in studies and expropriations. Thirty years and always more than four hours to join Paris from Béziers. As everyone knows, the TGV is now an indispensable tool to win the battle for economic development, to ensure the competitiveness of our territories, to respond to the population growth of our region, which has an additional 52,000 inhabitants every year, to ensure that it competes equally with other regions. That is what we are asking you, Madam Minister: fairness for our territories, which deserve the same attention, the same equipment as the rest of France. We are told that we need to take a break from the new projects. But how can we talk about a new project, when it has been under study for decades? Could you tell us what is the status of the work of the infrastructure guidance board set up on the sidelines of mobility? We are told to give priority to daily trains; However, this high-speed line would make it possible to clear the conventional line already engorged, saturated and to multiply these trains in daily life. We are constantly being told about Europe; The Montpellier-Béziers-Perpignan line is precisely the missing link between Northern Europe and Spain and should therefore be able to benefit from European funds. Last Sunday, the first freight train took the Nîmes-Montpellier bypass line, passing through the new Montpellier train station, La Mogère. Can you assure us, Madam Minister, that this new station will not be a terminus?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u179	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u180	Madam Member, the Government is already well aware of the high expectations of the elected representatives and the Occitanian territories on the railway projects you are talking about. I would like to take this opportunity to strongly condemn the last unworthy campaign orchestrated on this subject by the city of Béziers, which reflects a contempt for women victims of violence. There is no justification for such a campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u182	On the background of the project, just a few days away from the inauguration of the bypass of Nîmes-Montpellier, which mobilized €2.3 billion of public funds, the new Montpellier-Perpignan line project represents a new investment of €5.5 billion, including €1.9 billion for the Montpellier-Béziers section, which is expected to be the subject of a public inquiry in 2018. The Bordeaux-Toulouse new line project, which was declared a public utility in 2016, represents an investment of €7.3 billion. These two projects therefore represent a total investment of almost 13 billion euros, which will have to be borne exclusively by the public authorities, given the golden rule which now prevents SNCF Réseau from financing the new projects, its debt reaching 50 billion euros in 2018. In the face of this finding and the funding impasse we are facing, the President of the Republic announced on 1 July a pause in all major transport infrastructure projects. This is why mobility foundations have been set up in which the work of the Infrastructure Guidance Board is carried out. The conclusions of this approach will have to make it possible to build a multi-year path of financing transport infrastructure balanced between revenue and expenditure, realistic and sincere. They will be the subject of a policy act to be presented to Parliament in early 2018. Discussions on this project, like all major transport infrastructure projects, will take their full place. I have no doubt about your involvement on this occasion, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u183	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u184	Minister, the posters were obviously to be taken in the second degree. They are just a pretext, not the substance of the problem. The famous singer Henri Salvador sang, several decades ago, "Zorro has arrived". In his video, we saw the young woman of a cowboy, tied on a railway track, saved at the last minute by the famous masked vigilante. Can we imagine for a second that Henri Salvador was apt to violence against women? Can we imagine for a second that we had to ban his clip? I don't believe it. No one, among those who designed this campaign, was aware of the terrible fact to which Mrs. Rossignol referred. It is unworthy of him to combine an advertising campaign with a different fact. As far as the substance is concerned, the region has devised innovative ways of financing this new high-speed line. Moreover, because of its European dimension, the European Investment Bank is also ready to lend money and has certified to us that the decision to finance can only come from the Government, namely from you, Madam Minister, and from Mr Emmanuel Macron. We are therefore putting all our hopes on you, Madam Minister, so that this high-speed line, which we have been waiting for thirty years, will finally come to light.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u185	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to put her question, No 20, on mountain farming and wolf protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u186	Minister responsible for Transport, my question is to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, but I have previously expressed my thanks to you. The snow arrived on the ski resorts of the Hautes-Alpes, for the greatest happiness of the future holidaymakers, and the rain on the south of the department, for that of the high-alpine farmers. The reservations of the night trains on the Paris-Briançon line are already complete, which delights all the Haut-Alpins. We appreciated your gesture, Minister, which will allow us to spend a more serene Christmas holiday. Nevertheless, this morning I would like to share with the Minister for Agriculture and Food some of the issues that the assembly farm is particularly facing. For multi-activity farmers, whose numbers are large in the mountains and intended to increase as a result of the decline in agricultural incomes, the 2018 Finance Bill is reducing the maximum external income allowed to benefit from the Natural Disability Compensatory Allowance – the ICHN. The calculation of this allowance is based on the income base for fiscal year n-2. Farmers were therefore unable to anticipate this change in order to adjust the share of their agricultural income and their external income. For some, however, these external incomes are, in proportion, too high because of the decline in agricultural incomes. The retroactive reform of the ICHN falls as a double penalty. The second issue, in the mountains, is the presence of the wolf. In my department, the latest figures are alarming: already 300 attacks and 1122 victims against about 800 last year. The psychological distress of our farmers is intense and, at national level, the cost of damage amounts to 26 million euros. In 2017, the ministerial decree authorizing the removal of wolves from July 1st was published on July 20th! For three weeks, the herdsmen were deprived of any means of protection, while in the summer, the herds in the alpine pastures are particularly exposed to predation. While the new wolf plan is being written, it is envisaged that the beginning of the sampling period will be moved to 1 January, which will end on 31 December. That's a very good thing. In return, reinforced defence fire can only be authorized from 1 January to 31 August and reinforced sampling and sampling from 1 September to 31 December, in order to reach the number of 500 wolves in the territory. Is there not a mathematico-geographical equation that cannot be solved? Between 2016 and 2017, we have grown from 300 to 360 wolves distributed mainly in mountain departments, and the situation is already untenable. We're not going to ask each department to take its share of wolves to find a soothing solution...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u187	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u188	Mrs Boyer, first of all, I apologize to Minister of State Nicolas Hulot, who asked me to answer you. The protection of wolves responds directly to France's commitments to biodiversity. Nevertheless, the Minister of State is fully aware that the presence of the wolf can cause significant damage to the herdsmen, faced with attacks on their herds. In this context, as you said, a new national action plan for the period 2018-2023 is being prepared with the Ministry of Agriculture and will be published at the end of January 2018. The aim is to strike a balance between ecological issues and agricultural activities, based in particular on the principle of adaptive management. If the wolf remains a strictly protected species, derogations are possible since alternative means are not sufficient and destruction does not call into question the favourable status of the species. The conditions under which prefects may grant derogations are laid down in a framework interministerial decree which provides for the determination of a maximum number of wolves whose destruction is authorized. As you will recall, the shooting campaign is currently running from 1 July to 30 June of the following year. The new plan now provides for a calendar year, from 1 January to 31 December. The objective is twofold: to manage the ceiling more easily during the year and to give maximum priority to defence fire, which is known to be more effective in reducing predation. Our ambition is to establish in the territories the conditions for a lasting coexistence of the species with human activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u189	Mrs Clémentine Autain has the floor to put her question, No 2, on the installation of a commercial area in the Gonesse Triangle.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u190	My question is addressed to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, and concerns the future of the Gonesse Triangle. This natural space is now threatened by a large project, led by the Auchan and Wanda groups. The operation will require the artificialisation of 300 hectares of the 700 currently in this area, of which 80 hectares only for the EuropaCity project, a vast tourist and commercial complex whose carbon footprint would be equivalent to 170 hypermarkets. There is great concern for the future of the Gonesse Triangle, an area full of agricultural land with exceptional yield. As you know, for the past ten years, Île-de-France has lost nearly 1,400 hectares of agricultural land every year, while local demand for local food has never been greater. In July, Minister Nicolas Hulot felt that this project was not compatible with the Climate Plan, and he was right. In August, the investigator in charge of the public inquiry into the revision of Gonesse's local planning plan also gave an unfavourable opinion, considering that the project was not compatible with the concept of sustainable development. Other solutions exist, such as the CARMA project – cooperation for a rural metropolitan and agricultural ambition – which is more in line with France's ecological transition objectives, and which I proposed yesterday to hear the authors at the National Assembly. On the 700 hectares of the Triangle de Gonesse, it includes a vegetable farm, a farm lab to train in agricultural trades or a research centre on urban and peri-urban agriculture. The logic of this project is the circular economy, which allows us to get our imaginations out of a consumerist world. That would be helpful; It's time to get out of the madness of the productivist grandeur. Minister responsible for Transport, I ask you to remind the Minister of State of her commitments and to protect the Gonesse Triangle.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u191	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u192	Mrs Autain, I ask you once again to excuse the Minister of State, Nicolas Hulot, who asked me to answer you. You ask him about the environmental problems posed by the EuropaCity project in the Gonesse Triangle. The Minister of State has, of course, already found the contradiction between this project and the objective of preserving agricultural land and combating the artificialisation of the soil which he sets out in the framework of our policy of ecological transition. This urban extension project finally raises the question of a recasting of our commercial development model. Thus, EuropaCity must create 250,000 square meters of shops, next to a shopping centre already in difficulty and at the expense of local shops. As you know, the previous government made certain commitments to local authorities, and despite many negative views, Gonesse's local planning plan allows for the opening up of this area to urbanisation. It is mainly in the name of the attractiveness, economic development of Greater Paris and job creation that previous governments have chosen to support this project. Faced with these contradictions, Nicolas Hulot wants a reflection to be carried out to clarify the position on the project and on the conditions for a sustainable and balanced development of the territory, in relation to all the communities concerned. The project will also have to evolve to include two levels of social and environmental needs: that of the territory hosting it and that of the place of this territory in the Greater Paris. Finally, it will also have to be thought of according to the project that remains to be developed on the former PSA site of Aulnay-sous-Bois, which is nearby.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u193	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u194	Thank you for your answer, but I regret that it is not really one. On the one hand, we have a project that is contrary to sustainable development objectives, which will increase the saturation of motorways – an environmental disaster. This project is also contrary to the desire expressed throughout the country – even the President of the Republic is, I believe, referring – to see us stop creating large shopping centres. From the point of view of the logic of the development of the territory, it is important to consider what exists right next to the Triangle de Gonesse: there are neither shopping centres nor sights of tourist interest. Elected just below Roissy, I believe that we must first deploy the current potential of the territory. On the other hand, the CARMA project preserves agricultural land, respects the Climate Plan and creates a dynamic in terms of employment. I invite you to think seriously about this, especially since, as you know, other European cities – Barcelona, Italian municipalities... – have developed such projects. If we want to put ourselves on the page and unleash the energies in a positive way for the climate and for the inhabitants of the territories, we must give priority to the CARMA project, which seems to me to meet the aspirations and needs of today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u195	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-12-O1093.u196	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and vote by public vote on the 2017 amending finance bill; Discussion of the Student Orientation and Success Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
