ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill ending the research and exploitation of conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons and containing various provisions relating to energy and the environment (No. 155,174, 172).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u3	Mr President, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion – I have not yet seen our dear Barbara Pompili, chairman of the committee –, Mr Minister of State, the version of the bill proposed to us, which we still wish to amend, puts an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, since existing concessions cannot be renewed beyond 2040. It makes sense to think that this debate and some of the elements of this bill would have their place elsewhere: in the reform of the mining code that is planned, but still postponed, but which you announced this afternoon, Minister of State, that it could come under discussion in 2018. In committee, Mr Minister of State, you replied to our colleague Sermier, who, as many of us consider this law to be of only symbolic value, that the symbols are important. It is true, but if this project is a symbol, we understand that it is very difficult to establish a link between its content and what must bring us all together: the relentless fight we must wage against global warming. I am sorry, but this project does not bring any positive effects on greenhouse gases. Moreover, it is economically and socially "impacting": it is destructive of jobs; it undermines dynamic revenues in many rural communes; it breaks the process of knowledge of our basement and the seabed; it carries significant legal and financial risks. In order to support these elements, I want to make some clarifications. In environmental matters, the project is only concerned with production and not with consumption. But it is well known that in 20 years, in 2040, our national needs for hydrocarbons will still be significant; We can regret it with you, but that's how it is. And, whether we like it or not, this 1% of our consumption, produced in the short run, generates less CO than imported oil.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u4	Ah ah ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u6	Today, as will be the case in 20 years, this national 1% saves 100,000 tonnes of CO per year. This project is also destructive for an industry that was born in France in 1820 and is known throughout the world for its excellence and the quality of its professionals. It was this research that helped to draw 350,000 kilometres of seismic line in depth, but also to gain a better understanding of the seabed, such as in the Strait of Mozambique. This major source of hydrocarbon research information facilitates the work of the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research and enables the acquisition of the geological knowledge needed in fields of excellence such as geothermal and hydrogeology. It is also a source of income for many rural living areas. Several communes in my constituency of the Aube thus draw 10,000, 20,000, 50,000 or even 100,000 euros per year. Finally, the sector represents employment with its specialities and know-how. In my constituency, there's oil, it's true. There is also a nuclear power plant. But there is also a desire to move towards the energy transition. We have an important photovoltaic field, over thirty hectares. The electoral district has the largest number of wind turbines – more than 200. We also have methanization. And then, Minister of State, we have champagne; As you know, champagne is characterized by a balance between sugar and acidity, and a significant change in temperature would make us lose these essential elements to the quality of this noble product, which represents our added value and serves our local interest. Our local interest and our universal obligation therefore mean that we limit global warming to the maximum. But this aspect, I repeat, does not seem to us to be included in this project, of which it could be said that it is a little off the ground. The Jacob law had – should we remind it? – its environmental logic when it prohibited hydraulic fracturing, which made it impossible in France to research and exploit shale gas. This project, which does not affect the consumption of oil or gas, has as its only symbolic contribution to make France the only country to cease its fossil energy production, while we will still need it for several decades. And then there's this silence about the legal, therefore financial, risk. Concession holders have rights. To limit the duration of operations in licensed areas too drastically, unilaterally to terminate these grants at such an early date, is to cause them very serious damage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u7	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u8	Do you have any idea how much compensation the French taxpayer will have to pay to compensate them? In a few moments, the Republicans, who had a positive attitude during the examination in committee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u9	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u10	... will again defend their amendments,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u11	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u12	... that give your text more security, especially legal. Minister of State, we expect you, during this public debate, to...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u14	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... an opening to discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u16	Thank you for this moment...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u17	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u18	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly logical that the Committee on Economic Affairs has received a delegation on the substance of sections 4 and 5 of the bill. Indeed, there is no distinction between economics and ecology: one does not go without the other, we are all convinced of it. It would be illusory to think that the environmental issue could be integrated into an overall reasoning without the economic variables being taken into account. In this sense, this bill meets a requirement by setting out, as my colleague Duvergé pointed out, three essential principles: a principle of balance, a principle of ecology and a principle of firmness. I would add that the economy has its full place in the resolution of the climate issue, particularly in the hydrocarbon sector. I am therefore pleased to see the implementation of a new political vision that incorporates it. This national policy will obviously have to be coupled with a complementary European strategy. The contribution of this bill is essential in several ways. The aim of the text is, first of all, to put an end to the destocking of carbon in soils. It then gives a strong sign of France's commitment to the energy transition. It is, finally, a marker, a signal, in that it really encourages innovations of rupture necessary for this transition. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supports the draft, in particular its Articles 4 and 5, which have been referred to our committee. We are fully aware that the transition can only be completed if it is prepared and secure for all the actors involved. The transformation of the energy mix, the emergence of new jobs, for which we need to invest in training, industrial and energy innovation, the new strategies for driving vehicles are all opportunities for our economy. It is important that we do so in good understanding with stakeholders. Article 4 seeks to secure the supply of natural gas, while Article 5 secures the single contract arrangement concluded with a view to simplification between the consumer and the supplier. On Article 4, we note that French LNG interconnections and terminals are not dimensioned to import enough gas during peak winter periods. Until 2009, the difference in gas prices by season – summer or winter – was sufficient to encourage gas operators to make full use of storage capacity. Since 2010, the erosion of this price differential reduces this incentive, resulting in a decrease in storage filling and, conversely, increasing vulnerability in the event of high natural gas consumption. Suppliers are seeking a reform of the system in order to be able to integrate the cost of storage into their gas supply, transparently and safely for themselves and their customers. The objective is simple: to guarantee consumers access to natural gas in winter, in the event of high consumption. We are therefore very much in favour of the Government acting through ordinances, as there is a need to reform the regulation of such storages by setting a new framework. As for Article 5, it secures the arrangements for the single contract between suppliers and consumers by entrusting the Energy Regulatory Commission with the definition of the amounts of remuneration of those suppliers. The draft law thus validates the recent decisions of the Conseil d'État and the Paris Court of Appeal by obliging network operators to pay electricity and gas suppliers for services rendered under this single contract. Articles 4 and 5 thus provide absolutely indispensable legal security. More broadly, Minister of State, you propose through this text a strategy for the hydrocarbon sector that meets the challenges of the future while taking on the current challenges. We are confident that, in doing so, you are on the right track to progress on these issues. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Finally, this law demonstrates the will to act by the President of the Republic, the Government and, I believe, national representation. It is in this capacity that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement gives you its full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u19	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u20	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, climate change is neither a chimera nor an ideology: it is a reality that is incumbent on us, not only on those on the Atlantic but also on those benches who would like to ignore it. The emergency is now. I, in turn, would like to commend the work done, particularly in the Committee on Sustainable Development, on this ambitious text – a text that comes from far and goes far. As my colleague Delphine Batho has repeatedly pointed out, it is wrong to suggest that the project does not commit much on the pretext that French production remains very modest with its 63 deposits, representing 815000 tonnes of oil. This text represents a new strong signal that confirms our country's place at the forefront of the fight against climate change. It is also a precursor at the global level: by voting it, France will become the first country on the planet to prohibit the search for and exploitation of hydrocarbons on its territory. Other countries will then have to follow suit and commit themselves to achieving this goal. This is the French example, already implemented on the eve of COP21, at the time of the vote on the energy transition law. The bill is consistent with the French commitments made at COP21 and with the injunctions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. It is, in fact, imperative to leave 80% of the coal and oil reserves underground in order to hope to achieve the objective set by the Paris Agreement: to limit the rise of temperatures to 2 degrees. In order to ensure greater coherence, carbon neutrality should also be included among the objectives of the nation's energy policy and explicit reference should be made to the Paris Agreement. An amendment by the New Left Group has been tabled to this effect. Finally, and above all, it is a courageous bill. A number of ambiguities and hesitations have emerged, which in recent years have continued to inflate a large stock of oil extraction permit applications, as well as a stock of often lengthy and very costly litigation for the state. Under the previous majority, the reform of the mining code, carried by Jean-Paul Chanteguet, had launched an encouraging movement concerning the titles of exploitation. This one didn't succeed. This regrettable break point obviously highlights the obvious ambiguities of this dossier. The New Left Group will vote for this text in a constructive state of mind that goes beyond the emerging polemics. In this same constructive spirit, and without calling into question the overall balance of this text, I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the fact that this ban on the research and exploitation of conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons by 2040 will not be without economic and social consequences for some of our territories. I am referring here to the territories which have an important oil and para-oil industrial fabric, which is the source of thousands of jobs. It would be wise, in my view, to clarify quickly and exhaustively the arrangements for ecological and solidarity transition contracts, by providing concrete and serious guarantees where we will have to deal with the irreversible cessation of the exploitation of hydrocarbons. These are real employment pools that will be affected and that will have to be transferred. We must accompany them seriously throughout this transitional period. It is not the employees who work in these fields today that must be criminalised, but rather those who do not take their responsibilities and act as if nothing were, as if one could continue as before. Instead, you have to accompany the movement. At the same time, and in the same direction, it would also be appropriate, Minister of State, to take advantage of this context in order to strengthen and further develop the training linked to the energy transition, and thus give a real boost to green jobs. There is often talk of potential ranging from 1 to 1.5 million jobs, but these paper figures have to be turned into flesh realities. It is necessary to say what these jobs are and to open the way to them. The Energy Transition Law for Green Growth launched the movement; Let us now try to increase it and create favourable conditions for this future job pool. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, REM and MODEM groups]] The deadline of 2040 seems far away. In fact, time is playing against us in terms of climate change. Let's take advantage of this time. We must both accelerate the energy transition and anticipate the economic and social effects of this transition in an informed manner. The New Left Group therefore requests that Parliament be seized every five years by the Government, in order to regularly examine the measures accompanying the shift towards a complete cessation of the research and exploitation of all hydrocarbons. Minister of State, one more effort, and you will have a fine specimen of a law and parliamentary work of co-construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u21	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u22	Mr President, the Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, behind shared ambitions to reduce our consumption of fossil fuels, are hiding a testimony law, which the environmental protection associations do not hesitate to call a "symbol" and of which we do not see how it could, in view of its minimal impact on our carbon footprint, set itself as an example on the international stage. More seriously, in its low-cost communication undertaking, the Government returns here, without any consultation, on a competence granted for seventeen years to the regional community of Guyana, now territorial collectivity of Guyana. It is true that successive governments, both right-wing and left-wing, have always refused to make this transfer effective, despite repeated condemnations by the Council of State. So, what message does the Government wish to send to the Guyanans who came down to the streets in March to cry out against a project that simply dispossesssssed them of their right to decide for themselves whether or not they wish to exploit their resources, the same resources they have seen tirelessly looting for decades, whether they are black, yellow, green or blue gold? The Council of State also underlines the contempt of this bill for Guyana and the overseas countries in general, who are condemned to bear the weight of the commitments made by the President of the Republic alone, without regard for their least economic development and for their very small contribution to global warming. Incomprehension is necessary, even as the CETA, the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, will enter into force, which will encourage the import of hydrocarbons produced in Canada, on the one hand, and maintain the dependence of our energy system on fossil fuels, on the other. Incomprehension, again, when Total, the flagship of the French industry, announced the acquisition of 25% of a consortium conducting hydrocarbon research off Guyana, where the giant Exxon Mobil has just announced one of the most important hydrocarbon discoveries in the last ten years and the launch of a first phase of investment for $4.4 billion. Incomprehension, again, when the same French company, Total, pays $200 million for five exploration permits in the immediate vicinity of the Franco-Brazilian border. Inevitably, Guyanans will therefore suffer from the negative externalities of French oil exploitation in their neighbours, without ever seeing the color of economic spinoffs for their territory. Unlike the Chernobyl cloud, oil spills unfortunately do not stop at political borders. This is where all the cynicism of such a bill lies, which allows our government to redeem an ecological conscience cheaply while continuing to pollute with impunity our neighbours to the South and asking them, over and above the market, to renounce their ambitions for development, building themselves, with its small comfort, as virtuous example. What consistency is there when, at the same time, we announce the abolition of certain environmental and social standards in the BTP, the abolition of aid for the maintenance of organic farming and the further reduction of the ban on neonicotinoids or glyphosate? However, instead of a "com' coup", there was an opportunity to get Guyana out of its dramatic economic situation, while strengthening our environmental protection requirements. Rather than banning at home and going to pollute elsewhere, should we not improve or even strengthen our environmental normative framework, already among the strictest, and thus allow Guyanans to be actors in their common destiny, while at the same time providing guarantees for our environmental interests? For this to happen, it would have been necessary to be part of a broad concertation exercise, whereas it is the only fact of the prince who decides today. It is also the meaning of the draft law which brings the mining code into line with environmental law, which we adopted at first reading in this House last February and whose implementation now seems to have been referred back to the Greek calends. Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, the Guyanans have told the world that they will no longer admit that they will no longer be listened to, that they will no longer be heard and, in all events, that they will be despised by decision-makers locked in ivory towers 7,000 kilometres from their reality. I solemnly invite you, Minister, to listen to them, to hear them and above all to send them a strong signal, allowing them to be fully involved in their development. For while in Paris we vote for pious vows and symbolic laws, in French Guiana, rockets continue to take off against the backdrop of shanty towns and human misery, and the temperature of the Guyanese pot continues to rise. Mr. Minister of State, you will understand that without serious questioning of certain aspects of this law, I will not be able to vote in favour of it. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u23	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u24	Mr Minister of State, Madam Chair of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the Paris Agreement, adopted on 12 December 2015 at the end of COP21, provides for a global temperature increase of less than 2 degrees, or even a target of 1.5 degrees. The crucial challenges of the energy and ecological transition that we must collectively face in France and around the world are mainly: the fight against global warming, which Irma has demonstrated as a recent proof, energy independence and the reduction of fossil fuels. To achieve these objectives, further economic growth is essential. New ecological ways of producing must emerge. Alternatives to fossil fuels such as renewable energies – wind, hydro, solar – new mobilities, such as decarbonised means of transport – electric or hydrogen vehicles –; and the creation of new jobs are the foresights of the future that we must absolutely accompany. The bill ending the research and exploitation of conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons, with various provisions on energy and the environment, is part of the implementation of the climate plan presented on 6 July. It establishes in the law axis 9 of this climate plan, which provides that the Government shall initiate "the gradual exit of the production of hydrocarbons on French territory by 2040, by no longer granting new oil exploration permits and by not renewing existing exploitation concessions". This measure, symbolic in the eyes of some but essential for others, enables our country to set an example and to be consistent with our commitments to combat climate change. France will be the first country to choose to stop producing hydrocarbons on its soil. It will be accompanied in this transition by its industrialists, its disruptive innovations and its scientists. As a result, other countries such as Great Britain, India and China have similar initiatives. The phasing out of oil production by 2040 is therefore consistent with the target of a 30% reduction in fossil fuel consumption by 2030, which will help to avoid offset the 1% reduction in domestic production by an increase in oil imports. As we have pointed out in committee, the support of our respective territories is necessary, and we strongly support it. We invite the Government to provide details on the arrangements to be put in place, both economically and fiscally and environmentally, which could, inter alia, support the development of renewable energies – solar, methanization or geothermal. The work in the Committee on Economic Affairs has significantly improved the text by providing useful and necessary clarifications. With regard to Articles 4 and 5, which were before the Committee on Economic Affairs on the merits – the first on securing the supply of natural gas, the second on clarifying the powers of the Energy Regulatory Commission concerning the fixing of the remuneration for customer management services provided by energy suppliers on behalf of network operators – the suggestions proposed by our group were adopted in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Today's debate will, I am sure, bring other elements. The amendments tabled by our group are essentially precise. This text, as a whole, seems to us important and balanced: that is why we call for its rapid adoption. Instead of wanting to live on Mars, we must, for generations to come, make life on Earth better.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u25	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u26	[[Brouhaha on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Smile on many benches]] Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, behind the title of this law, which we are starting to examine today in the Chamber,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u27	Let Mr. Di Filippo speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u28	[[Same movements and exclamations on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ... that is to say, "the end of hydrocarbon research and exploitation", hides an attractive concept at first glance, but the reality of which is much more complex to understand and which, unfortunately, is once again more a matter of punitive ecology than of the ecology of progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u29	Please, ladies and gentlemen, only Mr Di Filippo has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u30	We do not fight global warming, nor do we realize the energy transition with advertising slogans, but with an energy, economic and industrial strategy built and coherent! To decree, as you have done, Minister of State, to leave hydrocarbons in the French basement or to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 are only, at this stage, political communication incantations. This text will certainly not be the magic wand that will materialize them. [[Claims on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] First of all, this bill has a far-reaching aspect, revealed by sections 4 to 7, which undermines the overall philosophy of the text. But these additions are the ones that are ultimately the least problematic. Articles 4 and 5, which concern gas storage and consumption and transparency of the remuneration of suppliers by energy system operators, are a good thing. We simply want guarantees or an impact assessment, as we asked in committee with the rapporteur, to reassure ourselves of the consequences for the final consumer. Articles 6 and 7 are based on the transposition of European directives and are in the right direction with regard to biofuels and air pollutant emissions. For the time being, however, this text faces two main pitfalls, brought together in Articles 1, 2, 3 and 8, concerning the cessation of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. These two pitfalls are, at this stage, repudiatory. [[Claims on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the same benches]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] First, this text will be environmentally inoperative, and even counterproductive. Each year, 75 million tonnes of oil are consumed in France, of which only 1% is produced on national soil. Even in the best of scenarios, we will still consume about 50 million tonnes per year in 2040. You told me in committee eight days ago, Minister of State, that if we weren't able to do without that 1%, we'd never do anything. I agree with you. But there is the central question of our strategy! If we still consume fossil fuels in 2040, why do we do the first thing about the 1% produced in France? That's the last percentage we should do without! Indeed, I would remind you that a tonne of oil produced abroad and imported generates three times as much CO emissions as a tonne of oil produced in our country, particularly as a result of its transport. It is therefore, Minister of State, a political display which is a total non-sense ecological. Secondly, this text will be economically damaging. As we have shown, the cessation of oil production in France, first of all, will have an impact on the increase and increase in our imports. France's energy bill is already 40 billion euros a year, and this questionable choice will continue to impoverish and unbalance our trade balance. Secondly, this French production of hydrocarbons is very directly concerned with several thousand jobs located in peripheral territories which will experience a further impoverishment to the benefit of imports. It is still expensive paid for a text that will ultimately lead to an increase in our overall carbon footprint due to increased imports.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u31	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u32	Minister of State, the energy transition deserves a much more ambitious industrial strategy. Some things will unite us in your climate plan, such as the acceleration on the development of renewable energies to reach a level of one third in French energy production by 2030, or the programme to combat buildings that are thermal colanders for the coming decade. These will be important advances, but they are absent from this text, which, moreover, does not discover and invent everything, or even much. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Christian Jacob's 2011 bill prohibited the contested technique of hydraulic fracturing, while leaving the door open for research into non-conventional hydrocarbon technologies that are not harmful to the environment. As far as ecology is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we must never fall into the most complete obscurantism, because it prevents us from making progress and places us in a situation of total dependence on sometimes unstable foreign countries. Of course, we do not deny the need to fight vigorously against global warming and its harmful effects, which are a reality. Of course, we do not want to hinder the ecological and energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u33	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u34	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] [[Blocks of desks on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] But we, the Republicans, are intransigent advocates of fairness, between the French and between the territories. We wish to be with you in this fight against global warming. Give us the opportunity, Minister of State. Listen to the voices of the territories! Let's get out of the incantations, let's get out of the bans at all-va, let's get out of the painful tax increases and a punitive ecology that can't be a long-term strategy. This fight will only be won by concerted action at an international level. This fight will be won only by technological progress, but also by economic progress. That will be the meaning of our proposals and our contributions throughout this debate. So that we finally get into the era of the ecology of progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u35	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. – "Chut! » on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for listening attentively to our colleague di Filippo. Every person in this House has the right to speak, and I believe that I am the guarantor of everyone's expression. Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u36	Mr Minister of State, Madam Chairperson of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, Mrs rapporteur, Mr rapporteur, in February 2012, UNESCO sent a very worried letter to France, in which it alarmed itself at the threats to the Piana calanques and the Scandola reserve, registered as a world heritage, represented the granting of a permit to search for hydrocarbons at sea, known as "Rhône Maritime permit". This fight against hydrocarbons has been supported in Corsica for years by several associations. Five years later, I welcome the progress made. This bill, which is both a practical implementation and an example to follow in the implementation of the Paris climate agreement, goes in the right direction. It concerns in particular the Mediterranean, a subject that is fundamental to me, which is the Member of an island like Corsica. The Mediterranean is the only natural and millennium border that Corsica has known. The sanctuarization of its biodiversity goes hand in hand with the preservation of our traditions and identity. It is the heritage of all Corsica, our fellow Europeans and our partners in North Africa and the Middle East, towards which this crossroads of civilizations launches a bridge. At-sea drilling threatens this bridge between crops. An accident such as that in the Gulf of Mexico on the platform of the oil company BP would risk defiling the Mare nostrum for decades and plundering the generations that grow on its shores. The gradual destruction of its ecosystem, of which the Mediterranean people are part, is a tragedy that the Corsicans do not support. It was on the waves of the Mediterranean in 1972 that the Corsicans became aware that their legacy was threatened. The company Montedison, based in Livorno, disposed every day off Cape Corsica and Bastia of thousands of tons of waste containing sulphuric acid: it was the case of red sludge. At that time, the government had not reacted. Today, the inaction of forty-five years ago is no longer as important. Mr. Minister of State, your predecessor, Mrs. Ségolène Royal, has worked hard to address the ecological emergency of the ban on offshore hydrocarbons. Last July, the seventh national biodiversity foundation was held in Ajaccio, during which the Ajaccio Call for a definitive ban on hydrocarbons in the Mediterranean was launched. By ceasing to issue many research permits, Ms. Royal had not merely announced, she had acted, as you are doing today. This bill justly overcomes the difficulties of a right that is easily draped in its technicality. In fact, the administrative courts applied restrictively the margin of discretion of the Minister of Mines in disputes against the State. The procedural interpretation of the mining code did not provide a solid legal basis for the sustainability of your predecessor's approach. The purpose of this bill is to provide such a basis. Some will be critical of it by arguing that a so-called property right has been infringed, while in environmental matters we will always be only usufructists, never owners. Beyond hydrocarbons, this bill, by a clear and general prohibition, expresses this evidence that nature is a common good, which cannot be subjected to the blind confrontation of supply and demand. In addition to a cultural exception, there is also an environmental exception, against which one cannot let go, one cannot let go. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the REM group]] The law is evolving and the principles contained in the constitutionality block must find a new hierarchy. The formal and individualist rights of 1789 reflect the ambitions of an enterprising bourgeoisie eager to enrich itself in industry. Freedom had taken precedence over responsibility, which was its natural counterpart. This greed has led to progress and growth, but it has dilapidated more resources in two centuries of consumerism than humanity has used for millennia. The social and real rights of 1946 restored this responsibility to humans, but it took the 2004 Environmental Charter to restore our responsibility to nature. The recognition of the crime of ecocide, advocated by Mrs Valérie Cabanes, goes in the same direction. Collective and altruistic rights must now be imposed on individualistic and selfish rights, for the freedom to undertake cannot be diverted into a freedom to harm future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u37	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u38	Mr President, the Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, from a former coalfield which has been hard hit by the closure of the last coalfields, I can say that we absolutely need to put an end to the dangerous exploitation of our soils and basements. Yesterday I attended a session of the Post-Mine Information Group, the GIAM: the impact of yesterday's industry on our environment today is impressive. Fifteen years after the end of exploitation, the landscapes of tomorrow are not yet known with certainty, in particular because of the collapse of inhabited areas up to 18 metres or the risk of discharge of polluted mining water into groundwater. It is time, not only to protect our resources, but also to enter a new era, respectful of the environment and beneficial to all. With the concrete measures provided for in this bill, it is a matter of gradually creating a new model of society, freed from fossil fuels and more solidarity by 2040. Our fellow citizens are ready for this development and have made it clear to us in recent months. They can't forgive us for our inaction. In the course of this discussion, I think it is necessary to distinguish in the medium term the economic consequences arising from the closure of this sector from the environmental effects of the operation. First of all, the abolition of certain jobs in the sector, which is sometimes mentioned in the opposition ranks, affects me. I pay particular attention to the problem of unemployment, which is very high in my country. However, I am confident that, in view of the method used to draft this text, I am confident that consultation will be preferred and that the transformation of this sector will be optimal. All the speakers – scientific experts, local and regional authorities, relevant economic sectors and civil society – have been agreed, and we have found in this text a balance that will benefit all French people. I would also like to reiterate our determination to give priority to the long term and to enable future generations to live in dignity. To address the environmental aspect, we need to take stock of the definition of hydrocarbons contained in this bill, which may surprise a priori. Indeed, we have chosen to allow an exception to the general ban. Know that the choice of each term in this definition has given rise to many debates, and I can say that today, thanks to the many consultations that have taken place, this definition is the most protective for the environment and for men. The aim is to put an end to the exploitation of hydrocarbons for the reasons mentioned earlier. However, in an identified and very specific case, man must continue to intervene, because if he did not, there would be significant risks to the environment and to the population. I can explain this case because we lived in my area very violently. [[Applause on many benches]] As a result of past human intervention in the galleries, methane, adsorbed in coal, escaped from the rock. This phenomenon is called "the desorption of gas by coal". This gas, known as "gray", can cause explosions when its concentration in the air is between 5 and 15 per cent. We deplored twenty-two deaths at the Simon de Forbach well on 25 February 1985 during the last blow of fire in France. At this stage, I would like to pay tribute to all the black mouths that have left their lives for France's recovery. We know that methane is much more toxic in terms of greenhouse effect than carbon dioxide. Since the shutdown of coalfields, the firedamp has been rising to the surface as a result of mining water surges. Its capture is therefore of dual interest: to avoid its dispersal into the atmosphere and to use it as a source of energy. On the other hand, to date, there is no evidence of the efficiency of the capture, without the use of hydraulic fracturing, of gas contained in unexploited coal veins. This is why we chose to exclude from the operating ban the only mine gas in the coal veins that had undergone mechanical fracturing during coal extraction. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thus, this text represents a real step forward in environmental matters. It is an example for our neighbours across Europe, and more broadly on the planet, both in terms of substance and form. I very much hope that this model will be followed quickly by all those who are committed to the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u39	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u40	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, leaving fossil fuels in the basement can be a laudable objective, provided that the affected employment pools are accompanied and that this objective is integrated into a comprehensive balanced energy policy. I regret, therefore, that the increase in the price of diesel always penalises the same: the French who work, the French who live in rural areas and the mountain areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u41	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u42	Young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u43	This does not prevent the Government, at the same time, from removing the yachts from the wealth tax base; That's a strange conception of tax justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u44	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u45	These French people in peripheral areas often have only the car as a means of movement. For 30 years, the Government had encouraged them to buy diesel vehicles. Today, you hit them on the wallet in the form of a double penalty: they are under house arrest because they do not benefit from the same public transport services as in the city or from modern transport infrastructures. The state of National Road 102 in Ardèche is there to testify to this. Minister of State, in order to reach its target, the energy transition must be at the service of growth, not of decline. We can't be against everything. Yes, renewable energies are our future. Yes, technological leaps will be decisive in the coming decades. However, we must be aware that in the current state of knowledge, in order to achieve our climate objectives, the potential of nuclear electricity, social energy par excellence, must be preserved, without any concessions on the level of safety of installations. The recent decision of the Nuclear Safety Authority to require EDF to temporarily shut down the four reactors at the Tricastin plant in order to consolidate the dikes in order to prevent flood risks is, from this point of view, exemplary. To strengthen this industry excellence in France is ordered, first of all, by immediate reasons for controlling costs, because preserving the purchasing power of consumers and the competitiveness of energy prices for companies is a shared priority. Second, renewable energy is still intermittent, and storage solutions are still limited. Finally, these energies cannot today meet peaks of consumption or demand for high power. At the same time, part of the solution also lies in the energy savings deposit. As such, the thermal renovation of buildings is a priority for purchasing power, to support investment and employment at the heart of our territories, because, as you know, our artisans have talent. As a personal, ardent fighter against shale gas, I will vote without a state of mind, Minister of State, your bill putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in France. And as I was able to do in committee, I will again propose amendments aimed at improving the text and securing the mechanism. As a follow-up to the Jacob law promulgated on 13 July 2011 – the only text that has protected us so far – we have the possibility to include in French law the definitive prohibition of the research, exploration and exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbons such as shale gases and oils. From the moment when the search for hydrocarbons, whatever the technique used, is prohibited and when no non-conventional hydrocarbon exploration permits are valid to date, which you have officially confirmed to us in committee, Mr. Minister of State, no shale gas exploitation will be possible in France, thus protecting the future of exceptional populations and territories such as the Ardèche, the Drôme, the Gard, the Vaucluse, the Haute-Savoie, the Aude, the Lot, and so many other beautiful departments of France. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, Minister of State, the Ardèche has been affected by three different shale gas exploration permits now repealed. I want to pay tribute to all those who have fought against this heresy: the collectives, the elected representatives of all sensitivities, the economic and associative actors, these men and women attached to their land, this magnificent agricultural, wine-growing, tourist land, this land of the origins where the cave of the Pont d'Arc and the gorges of the Ardèche, classified to the UNESCO world heritage, will continue to radiate throughout the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u46	Mr Yves Blein has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u47	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Madam and Mr rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the text we are examining is to put an end to the research and exploitation of conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons by 2040. Many have mentioned before me the need to move towards a so-called "decarbonized" society, Minister of State, but no one has noticed that your ministry also has delegation to develop the social and solidarity economy. Yet, how can we not associate in our reflection an economy sober in energy and the other virtuous economic model that the social and solidarity economy represents? The text also contains various provisions on energy and the environment, and while there are obviously major battles, the fight against global warming is one. Other challenges that French society must face include simplification, which could include, for example, removing unnecessary obstacles to construction. This text will bring its stone to this fight, less visible but nevertheless constant. It is in this context that I wish to go back to a provision which will remove an ambiguity of the law in force on the internal networks of buildings, an ambiguity which is partly due to the slowness which France sometimes puts into our domestic law the European directives. What are these inner networks? In buildings made up of several housing units, several offices or with mixed occupancy, electricity is usually sent to each unit of consumption by a rising column – you will pass me the technicality of the terminology – which is part of the public electricity distribution network. Each consumer unit has its own meter. But in recent years, a new pattern of electricity distribution has developed in office buildings. A single meter is installed for the entire building, and an internal network, which does not belong to the public network, transports electricity to all offices. This diagram is quite suitable when the building belongs to a single owner and the areas occupied by each tenant change over time. Tenants then do not have their own meter and pay electricity through rental charges. This single point connection scheme has several advantages. In particular, it allows for the sharing of consumption and the optimisation of the powers subscribed between the various occupants of the building and the general services. It also allows flexibility of operation for builders and developers in the life of the site, whose occupancy variability is observed throughout the operation of a building. Yet one of our great electricians, relying on the judgment of the Paris Court of Appeal of 12 January 2017, no longer accepts this connection scheme and therefore the indirect connections of consumers. I will thank you for the origin of this court decision, which obliges us today to legislate. In any case, it is up to us to legalise the existing situations and to allow the development of this pattern of distribution of electricity in office buildings. For this reason, it is necessary to create the concept of internal networks, which is enshrined in this text. The proposed new chapter assigns the inland networks of buildings a separate status from the public distribution networks and closed distribution networks. It does not create a specific status for the operators of these internal networks, but it does remove the existing non-law regime and reduces the risk of future litigation. That is why I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for taking advantage of this text and the various provisions on energy which it provides for in order to enable the development of internal networks which will participate, although indirectly, in our commitment to reducing energy consumption. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Major causes are also often the sum of small causes. It will be useful and will contribute to lower costs and lower consumption. As such, it will bring its stone to the building of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u48	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I find that the exchanges have a great hold, a few useless words aside. The term "punitive ecology" has been used repeatedly. From my point of view, it is only the ecology that undergoes the phenomena, rather than anticipating them, which allows the resources to run out, which exposes the weakest and most vulnerable to the accumulation of crises. The purpose of this bill, which is not a whole but a brick among others, is precisely not to be subjected to the phenomena, at least to anticipate them. I must confess, Mr. Member of Parliament for Guyana Gabriel Serville, that in the exchanges we have had this evening, you have heard the term of contempt used to refer to the attitude I might have towards your territory. Perhaps this is your perception, but it is far from what enlivens me, as is the idea that there would be behind this bill that a concern for communication is far from reality. I wouldn't want you to believe that. If I can understand your concerns, and probably even your anger, we are spending energy here, and there is no contempt. My priority is to think of those who, in this region of the world, and Guyana has fortunately been spared recently, have been given up to the imbalances of nature. The idea is not to do things without consulting you. For my part, I tend to think that Guyana should look to the channels of the future rather than to those of the past, but you will decide, since the transfer of powers that you have been calling for from your wishes for a long time will not be delayed. Moreover, I would not like Guyana to suffer tomorrow what has happened in the Gulf of Mexico, which was mentioned earlier. In any case, do not see any contempt on my part. For my part, I try as much as possible to combine the short and long term. You put forward short-term considerations, and these sufferings, these demands, these difficulties are real. Is it an impossible exercise to try, in a dialogue, to combine the two approaches? Unless I address them in the discussion of the amendments, which will probably allow us to come back to it, I will not be able to answer to each of you on all the points that you have raised, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Brun, you have presented as an injustice the increase in the price of diesel, the effect of which is undoubtedly added to that of the carbon trajectory. The tax advantage of diesel has been maintained for many years, which has prompted many of our fellow citizens to equip themselves with vehicles that have long been suspected of harmful health effects, which no one is contesting today. Unfortunately, we are still waiting for almost an impasse to begin to react. This catch-up is therefore a way to combat pollution, but it is accompanied by a number of mechanisms included in the climate plan that I have announced. For example, those who find themselves in a difficult situation because they own a diesel vehicle and, as a result of the double penalty, have had to move away from the major centres because of the rise in real estate prices and live in sectors which do not benefit from public transport, will be able to benefit from a number of provisions: aid for changing vehicles, an energy check deployed throughout the country, energy saving certificates and a number of bonuses for changing boilers or renovating a building. I hope to demonstrate that the ecological and solidarity transition is well within the scope of my ministry. Mr Arend, you're right about the firecracker. It is indeed a powerful greenhouse gas. It is therefore consistent not to let him join the atmosphere, so to capture him. Mr Colombani, you have rightly pointed out that efforts will have to be made to curb the expansion towards the sea of greed with resources. You are right to give the alert about the fragility of the Mediterranean, which does not need to be exposed to additional risks. Mr Bouillon, you are also right, along with others, to stress the importance of accompanying the employees concerned. Believe me, this one is at the heart of our concerns. We are well aware that the focus of the bill must be on this concern, which is likely to require regular monitoring. This question arises at European level – Germany itself is looking for solutions in the coal sector – but also as close as possible to the people and those working in the sectors concerned. It is up to us, and it will be up to us, to provide proof that the word "solidary" is not just a slogan! Mr Bolo, you mentioned the reform of gas storage. Thank you very much for your contribution to the work on security of supply. Indeed, given the events that took place last winter and that we do not wish to see a recurrence next winter, this is an important subject that we will deal with with with determination and pragmatism. Mr Menuel, I can reassure you about the tax revenues of the municipalities. They will not be affected in the short term, on the contrary. We plan to increase the municipal mine charge. On the other hand, I agree with you that it will be necessary to accompany the territories concerned. We aim to adopt a balanced text that will preserve the acquired rights and a certain freedom to undertake in order to completely avoid compensation, because the budgetary situation does not allow us to expose ourselves to indemnities that would be excessively burdensome. Mr Orphelin, you think that the balance of the text is good. One of your colleagues added that he is coming from far away and will take us far. That is, in any case, my conviction. If the text, Mr Wulfranc, suffers from dead angles, it is that it is only part of a larger device, as I recalled in his presentation. I would remind you that it complements the law on the energy transition for green growth, some of which – said without any trial of intent – have forgotten the other objectives. It adds to this law as it complements the climate plan. We are building the brick-by-brick energy transition. Ms.Panot, you and others have pointed out that CETA may conflict with the objectives of the bill. I would be in bad faith – which I am not yet capable of, but it may come to experience –...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u50	We hope we don't!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u51	...if I didn't admit that this fear, I share it. Nevertheless, we have placed CETA under surveillance, and it seems to me that the process has not yet been completed and that the House will have to speak on this subject. I, who am driven by a concern for coherence, may not be a convincing demonstration of this, but we will come back to it. As for the difficulty of making the deadline of 2040 a requirement in view of the balance of the text, I hope like you that it is a watertight barrier. As it stands, it will not be possible to do so completely. Is that serious, by the way? So many things will have happened by 2040! We don't suspect what will happen by then. The world may have changed much faster than we can imagine. However, a balance must be struck between the legal frailty of the text resulting from the challenge of acquired rights and this perfectly legitimate requirement. However, it should be noted that only five concessions are likely to exceed 2040, four of which will expire before 2045. We will propose an amendment to further limit these possibilities. You say that the bill is moving in the right direction, I take note of it and thank you for it. You're telling me not to give in to the lobbies, I'm trying to do it. I will give in at least, because, as I said earlier, compromises can be reached on many subjects, but on the living conditions of children already in school as on everything related to health and the environment, I have a little trouble. Among the formulas that stimulate me a little, I chose Delphine Batho's saying that the bill "marks a step forward" by making France a pioneer. To increase the price on this sentence and to respond to those who think that all this is of no use and that France will isolate itself – while it will stand out – I will quote one of Victor Hugo's – sorry to rely on a great man – which I did not know a short time ago,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u52	[[Smile]] You didn't know Victor Hugo?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u53	[[Applause on many benches]] ... according to which "What Paris advises, Europe meditates on it; as Paris begins, Europe continues it".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u54	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u55	I have before me a number of amendments containing additional articles before Article 1. Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u56	The bill has a very strong symbolic dimension. Its origins relate directly to the Paris climate agreement. It seems to us important to make this clear in the text of the bill. That is why this amendment proposes to replace the words "global warming", the words "climate change", used in the Paris climate agreement, which will make it possible to clearly show our country's will to fulfil its commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u57	It's the Republic of Words!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u58	Communication!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u59	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u60	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u61	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u62	The cessation of hydrocarbon research and exploitation is a reflection of our country's commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement, which emerged from COP 21. However, the objectives of our energy policy, which must be enshrined in the Energy Code, do not refer to this agreement, nor do they refer to the objectives of carbon neutrality and the exit of fossil fuels. Delphine Batho therefore proposed in committee, on behalf of our group, to refer black and white in the title to the Paris agreement. That is the subject of the amendment we are proposing. Its adoption would consolidate the provisions relating to the cessation of hydrocarbon research and exploitation by including in the law a ground of general interest both sufficient and proportionate justifying the cessation of these industrial activities pursuant to Article 3 of the Environmental Charter adopted in 2004.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u63	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u64	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u65	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u66	You're right, this reference is inescapable. The Government's opinion was therefore also favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u67	It's good for the com'!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u68	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u69	The members of the La République group will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u70	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u71	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No 60, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u72	During the general discussion, our colleague Delphine Batho recalled that our history and positive law contain texts of which we can be very proud. Among them are the constitutional law on the Charter of the Environment, which we owe to Jacques Chirac in 2005. The text we are looking at here is intended to introduce into the mining code provisions aimed at putting an end to hydrocarbon research and exploitation by 2040. Until then, it is necessary to ensure that the research and exploitation that will continue will be carried out in accordance with the general principles of law contained in the Environment Charter, but also in the Environmental Code. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u74	Although the intention is perfectly commendable, the wording of the amendment raises several legal problems which have led the committee to deliver an unfavourable opinion. For example, article L. 110-1 of the environmental code that you are aiming at concerns mainly consumers and industries using raw materials, not producers of raw materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u76	All activities, as we all speak here, must be carried out in accordance with the constitutional principles, of which the Charter of the Environment is part. It was therefore not necessary to mention it, which, moreover, might suggest that their compliance was optional if it was not explicitly mentioned. Although I believe that your objective and your arguments are entirely relevant, Mr. Member, the Government is against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u77	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u78	I understand that symbolism is given, but I wonder if it is really necessary to write that the law must respect the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u79	Very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u80	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u81	We will return to this as part of the reform of the mining code. However, the current mining code does not comply with the Environmental Charter, which makes its reform necessary. I would point out to the rapporteur that the articles which he considers to be irrelevant are those which relate, in the general principles of environmental law, to the circular economy. To invoke the circular economy when talking about the exploitation of resources is not to commit a legal error; It makes sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u82	I have before me two amendments, Nos 174 and 139, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u83	Since the title of Chapter I now refers to the Paris Agreement, this amendment aims to include carbon neutrality and the reference to the Paris Agreement in the national energy policy objectives. It differs from the amendment tabled in committee, since it does not define carbon neutrality but refers it to the national low-carbon strategy. As announced in the climate plan, the Government will shortly be presenting a revision of the strategy as well as of the multi-year energy programming, but without having any "catch" in the energy code. It will therefore have to go back to Parliament to include carbon neutrality in the nation's energy policy objectives. It seemed consistent in this text, which, I would remind you, repeatedly amends the energy code – particularly on the underground storage of gas – to update the objectives of the nation's energy policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u84	Mr Matthieu Orphelin has the floor to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u85	In his policy speech, the Prime Minister announced that France would achieve carbon neutrality in 2050. The climate plan presented in July set this very ambitious goal, which must bring our country into the ecological transition. It seemed interesting to us that the text should refer to it. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u86	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u87	The concept of carbon neutrality, contained in these two amendments, should be defined very precisely in order to be legally sound. As the Minister of State has said, this issue is intended to be addressed in the context of the revision of the low-carbon strategy, which will be completed by the end of 2018. As you have suggested, Mrs Batho, adopting such amendments would be premature. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u89	Mrs Batho's amendment seeks to change the objectives of energy policy in the Energy Code. Although I share the ambition of carbon neutrality, it does not seem to me useful or timely to reopen a major debate on the formulation of these objectives, which had already taken a long time to review the Energy Transition Act. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u90	We're announcing, but don't want to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u91	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u92	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u93	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u94	This is a fallback amendment. I do not think, Mr. Minister of State, that this can generate much debate, because there is a consensus on your climate plan. We believe that it is more prudent for the regulation to come from the law. The low-carbon strategy resulting from the law will, in any case, be a problem of consistency between the long-term ambitions that have been revised upwards and the current framework of article L. 100-4 of the Energy Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u96	For the same reasons as before, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u98	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u99	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No 61, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u100	The aim of this amendment is to include, among the objectives of the nation's energy policy referred to in Article L. 100-4 of the Energy Code, a target of a 90% reduction in the primary energy consumption of fossil fuels by 2040. To date, only a 30% decrease in consumption in 2030 has been recorded. This goes in the same direction as reducing dependence on imports.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u102	This amendment aims to ban almost all fossil energy consumption in 2040. This seems to be an untenable prospect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u103	That's impossible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u104	In any event, such a decision must be discussed and supported in the context of the revision of the low-carbon strategy and the multiannual energy programming. To include this objective in the law would be premature. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u105	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 176.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u106	This is a fallback amendment. Rather than a numerical objective, which is now being debated, it is proposed that by 2040 a target should be included for the removal of fossil energy dependence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u107	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u108	Again, although the intention behind its drafting is commendable, this amendment poses a legal problem, because the concept of dependence on fossil fuels is unclear and should be clarified. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u110	I would have liked to give you another answer, but the opinion is unfavorable, because of the legal risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u111	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u112	For the quality of the debate, let me point out that the same article already refers to the concept of reducing dependence on imports. In the current framework of energy policy, which aims to reduce dependence on external sources of supply and the trade deficit, these amendments are consistent: they aim both at stopping production in France and at reducing imports. They do not pose any legal difficulties in proposing a definition of fossil-fuel dependence that would be undermined. The debate, in fact, is about the fact that the Government does not consider it appropriate to revise the objectives of energy policy today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u113	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u114	It is proposed to include in the law a sufficient and proportionate public interest ground justifying the cessation of industrial activities, pursuant to Article 3 of the 2004 Environmental Charter. I recall that the Council of State had identified a legal risk. The purpose of this amendment is to address this fragility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u116	I suggest that you withdraw the amendment. You are proposing to give a title to a section that no longer has content, since the previous amendments have been rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u117	Withdrawn!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u118	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u119	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u120	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 158.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u121	The cessation of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons on French soil is good news, because of the knowledge that we have of the dangers associated with this research, and despite the recurrent denials of the petrochemical industry regarding the impact on human health and ecology. As such, there seems to be evidence of a reduction in mining code and a moratorium on all permits already involved. As we know, the indiscriminate growth of production and material consumption consumes resources and degrades our environment. The search for greater energy and material sobriety is essential. Climate change requires us to get out of greenhouse gas-emitting energies and commit ourselves to far-reaching reforms, involving clear societal choices. The law on the energy transition for green growth adopted in 2015, a few months before the Paris climate conference, set targets to encourage the reduction of France's energy bill and favour "new" energy, clean and safe. Among other things, it aimed to reduce the primary consumption of fossil fuels by 30% by 2030. In addition, the 2016 multi-annual energy programming sets out a target to reduce final energy consumption by 12.6% by 2023, giving clarity and ambition to our decisions. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In order to avoid the decision to stop the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons being offset by additional imports, I invite you to include in the law the objectives of reducing their share of total domestic consumption. In line with the provisions of the text we are considering today, I call on you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u122	That's impossible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u124	The same arguments as for Amendment No 61, as corrected: the intention is commendable, but the objective seems untenable today. In any event, it should be considered in the context of the revision of the multiannual energy programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u126	Same motive, same punishment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u127	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u128	On the contrary, I consider that this argument makes it possible to put your feet in the dish. From the beginning, we are talking about carbon neutrality, but there is no carbon neutrality in this text! If one substitutes 1 % import for 1 % production, I must explain how this objective is achieved! You don't compensate for CO2 emissions, you substitute them. The subject of this amendment is that of the consumption of hydrocarbons. But where we differ, it is on the target of a reduction of 90% in less than 20 years. This means that the daily consumption of French people would then fall to 0.4 litres of oil. We have an interest in being very ambitious to accompany the changes in lifestyle and the social transformations that this would entail! Some people are unable to change vehicles because of lack of money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u129	You have to be ambitious, you're right! That's what's paralyzing you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u130	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] You have ambitions, we have a shortage! That is how you have set nuclear targets in the previous five-year period, which are completely impossible to achieve. But if you want, we can do as in the late USSR and set ourselves five-year goals – I know these are your references. Unfortunately, it is economically impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u131	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 155, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u132	This amendment seeks to align the title of the first chapter of this bill with the provisions of the Environmental Code characterizing environmental damage. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The title of Chapter I attests that the cessation of hydrocarbon research and exploitation in France is part of the fight against global warming. We therefore propose to supplement article L. 161-1 of the Environmental Code with a paragraph considering as damage to the environment all measurable direct or indirect environmental damage, which also contravenes the objectives of combating global warming.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u134	The concept of an objective to combat global warming is very vague...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u135	Sub-amend!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u136	... and the adoption of such a provision would pose great difficulties in implementation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u137	What a disappointment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u139	I prefer the terms "climate change" to "global warming".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u140	[[Smile]] Subamendment accepted!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u141	The fight against climate change is a major priority, we agree with you, but introducing such a reference to this article of the environmental code could be a source of legal uncertainty detrimental to the text. Therefore, any energy consumption could be regarded as damage to the environment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u142	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u143	This bill seeks to amend certain provisions of the legislative part of the mining code. However, this legislative part is based on an unratified order. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to ratify the Ordinance of 20 January 2011 on the codification of the legislative part of the mining code. We proposed this amendment to you in committee, without convincing you. As time does its work, we hope to win this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u145	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u147	This amendment will put an end to the ambiguity surrounding the status of the articles of the mining code resulting from the re-consolidation carried out by the 2011 Order and whose legality is sometimes still in question, an unratified order having only a regulatory character. However, when the mining code is reformed in 2018, it will be necessary to correct a set of material errors and make some adjustments. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u148	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u149	The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this amendment, although later corrections and adjustments will be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u150	Several speakers are inscribed. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u151	Minister of State, this bill, a strong signal to the world, is in line with COP21. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you about the particular situation of the oil research permit of Saint-Griède, which concerns part of the Hautes-Pyrénées and Gers, and for which I have failed, despite many letters, to obtain a concrete answer from your ministry. By a joint decree of the Ministries of Environment and Economy, signed in September 2015, the Government denied an Australian oil company the five-year extension of the shale gas search permit in Saint-Griède. However, this order was annulled in November 2016 by the Administrative Court of Pau, which gave the Government 30 days to extend the permit. The current mining code provides for a licence extension fee that competes with the Energy Transition Act. A new order for refusal of extension was to be issued by the Government on different grounds, but we have not since received any information on this subject. Minister of State, what is the status of this new order not to authorize the extension of the non-conventional hydrocarbon research permit? To what extent will your bill solve this legal problem which, due to the decision of the Administrative Court of Pau, costs the state 3000 euros of penalties every day? I suspect you won't answer me tonight, but I hope your ministry will write to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u152	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u153	This Article 1, which is essential to the text, initiates the gradual but irreversible cessation of the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in France by 2040. It already prohibits any new exploration permits. We have made good progress in committee in order to ensure that this 2040 deadline is effective, but there is no doubt that the mechanism will need to be further secured, in particular in order to protect itself against the risk of a legal conviction of the State for the payment of compensation. In line with the Paris Agreement and its objective of carbon neutrality, we will propose amendments to ensure transparency of information to Parliament and citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u154	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u155	Section 1 of this bill aims to phase out the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in our national territory by 2040. Thanks to this ban, which applies to both conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons, including shale gas, France will become the first country in the world to prohibit the search for and exploitation of hydrocarbons on its territory. During his campaign, Emmanuel Macron had committed himself to speeding up the implementation of the Paris Agreement. You have therefore, Minister of State, presented this summer the climate plan to step up the fight against global warming. We thank you for that. Article 1 of this text is the legislative translation of axis 9 of the climate plan. It is far more than symbolic that this text should be the first on the agenda of the ordinary session of our Assembly. After the speech of the President of the Replica to the UN on 19 September, France once again confirms its leadership role on climate issues. We will vote with conviction on this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u156	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u157	This article purports to put a definitive end to the operation of hydrocarbons by January 1, 2040. We take note of the first progress, although we still regret a certain timidity. The general spirit of the text and its initial intentions may be appropriate if we go to the end of its logic. The majority and the Government have already accepted several of our amendments in committee, proof that France is a constructive force when a text goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u158	Join Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u159	We propose that you fill the gaps, because if it remained in the state, it would be a missed opportunity to finally change paradigm. Once again, it is the ubiquitous motive of supposedly general economic interest – while it benefits only a few – that comes out victorious. We must give priority to the general, human and environmental interests over the private interests of a few large groups that favour profit at the expense of everything else. To comply with the commitment to limit global warming well below 2 degrees, we need to go further. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Colleagues, let go! Dare to attack the mining code, a kind of customary law of the worst productivists, some of whom sit in front of me and show up loudly Dare to attack the mining code and the rents guaranteed by the right of follow-on to the big industrialists against the ecological interest! Dare to write black on white more precise and ambitious goals! If we do not do so, I fear that this text will only remain a statement of intent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u160	That's what he is!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u161	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You will then have the greatest difficulty in explaining to our fellow citizens, in the face of the ecological urgency, the emptiness of a text which proposes the end of the extraction of hydrocarbons on 1 January 2040 while allowing the extension of concessions beyond that date.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u162	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u163	During the discussion of the amendments, I will have the opportunity to address the particular issue of Lacq gas. You were kind enough to refer to it, Minister of State. I salute your sense of listening and the dialogue we have been able to engage in with your firm, which has enabled us to do a good job. I will therefore come back in a moment to what is a big oversight of this piece of legislation, even if it has finally been repaired. You have nicely quoted Victor Hugo and, indeed, this law will only have a consistency if it is taken over tomorrow by other countries. Where are we in this respect, not with China, as Julien Aubert mentioned, but with the other European partners? This text will be of interest only if it is taken up by the European Community as a whole. Before voting on this crucial article 1, I would like to know what efforts the Government has made to share its analysis and what the results are. On the other hand, I am fortunate to be familiar with the problem of gas and oil to count a large number of wells in my constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u164	He's our emir!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u165	Having been the mayor of Mourenx, a city created to exploit the gas deposit, I would have liked you to remind our assembly that it takes ten years to close a well. This may surprise some of you, but that's how it is, and these ten years must be included in the permit. Finally, Minister of State, I would have asked you about the research, if I had had time. We will come back to that when we consider the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u166	Mr Denis Sommer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u167	This text will probably be one of the most important in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u168	It won't go far!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u169	This wide-ranging text is part of the demands and developments of the world. We were able to speak in committee about the international situation, the consequences of demography in China, India, on the development of renewable energies, energy storage and mobility. The entire international community, from all continents, must mobilize around these fundamental questions for humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u170	We are not the Parliament of the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u171	Far from punitive ecology, the prospect of a horizon of 2040 is mobilising. Jean-Marie Sermier spoke to us earlier about his territory, in particular the city of Dole, and the experiences that are carried out there. He could have evoked the actions carried out in Franche-Comté around hydrogen. I am confident that the 2040 horizon will encourage many industrialists – some are already committed to the process – to move from the stage of innovation, the demonstrator, to the stage of industrialization of systems. It's very important. It is in this way that France will be able to continue to speak to the world: because it will be able to offer the planet solutions on all the major issues that are of interest to us today and that will enable us to live better in the years to come. It is our responsibility to give France the opportunity to act in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u172	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u173	Article 1, while meeting an environmental objective which we share and which has been endorsed by the Paris Agreement, gives rise to concerns in our territories which it is our duty to relay. The first concern concerns the feasibility of shutting down all oil operations in 2040 in the light of the concessions granted by the State. Indeed, the industries concerned will have progressively closed some of the wells they operate before 2040. But the process of dismantling the facilities and returning the land to the state of origin provided for by the mining code, which differs from the closure of simple wells, requires years. The industrialists are therefore concerned that the existence of a deadline would force them to stop the exploitation of the oil fields still active before 2040, which would call into question the investments they have made in the territories concerned and would put the State at risk of condemnation under the jurisprudence of the Council of State. The next area of concern is employment. It is 5000 jobs and 1000 companies for the oil production and exploration industry that will disappear if we do not accompany the transition. Finally, there is concern about research. The Aquitaine region has the largest private European research centre for geology and subsoil technology, which employs 2,800 people. It also hosts a competitiveness centre, involving the public and private sectors, launched in 2010, which employs nearly 4000 people. Synergies exist between companies, the state and universities. The location of these activities was chosen to allow experiments on nearby oil fields. What will happen in 2040? These are the concerns that my colleagues from the Atlantic Pyrenees and I must bring to your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u174	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u175	We are living in a wonderful time, that of a new revolution that is no longer just industrial but societal. In a world where everything goes so fast, it is important to project itself concretely in the post-Paris agreement. This bill on oil exploration and, ultimately, oil exploitation is not a mere symbol. It is one more brick to this new society. It only makes sense if it is linked to our collective ambition to honour and carry out the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The year 2040 is tomorrow. This gives us time to understand new behaviours and to ensure a transition without brutality. The essential energy transition can only take place if we guarantee that it will be socially sustainable. To accompany the most affected territories and to ensure their conversion into future activities is the commitment made by the Government and the demand made by the MODEM and related groups. That is why this clause 1 of the bill is more than necessary. It begins the gradual and irreversible exit of oil and gas production on French territory by 2040, in accordance with the commitment made on 6 July during the presentation of the Climate Plan. This transition to progressive action will at last be an opportunity to rethink how we conceive wealth, discover new growth and build a new real prosperity that benefits the greatest number of people. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] We are no longer, Nicolas Hulot, at the time of "The handle in the corner", but the one, Minister of State, of happy sobriety.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u176	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u177	Minister, you want to fight climate change and you are a thousand times right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u178	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u179	You want to limit greenhouse gases and you're a thousand times right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u180	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u181	For this, you propose a strong symbol by prohibiting the search for and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u182	And he's a thousand times right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u183	But I ask you, what will happen in twenty-three years? Research is moving forward, things are changing. You don't take that into consideration. If we succeed in capturing carbon in combustion tomorrow, everything will have changed. We have a hundred and sixty years of coal reserves on the planet, more than sixty years of gas reserves and more than fifty years of oil reserves. More than 100 countries produce coal. The truths of tomorrow will not be the truths of today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u184	Or yesterday's!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u185	But you reason only from the truths of today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u186	Let's sit down in the past!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u187	In twenty-three years, things may have changed dramatically. You are a thousand times right, Minister, to want to change things and limit greenhouse gases, but you do not take technological developments into account. Another important element is that while there is much research on renewable energy, the same is true in the area of fossil fuels. Where will the patents be tomorrow? There will be no patents for fossil fuels in France tomorrow. If fossil fuels find a new future because technologies have changed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u188	What if, and if, and if...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u189	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...you will have plunged us into a world of delay, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u190	It's obscurantism on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u191	It's the oil that makes it dark!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u192	Obscurantism is what characterizes you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u193	You're the vanguard!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u194	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u195	I confess that I am quite dubious about this key article of your text, and therefore your text in general. If I understand the overall objective that you are seeking to achieve – to consolidate our country's position as a global leader in the fight against global warming, as some major nations decide not to assume their responsibilities anymore – this article, in the absence of international coordination, is far from meeting it. With this article, you take the risk, Minister of State, of riding alone for a while. After the vote on our assembly, will our consumption of hydrocarbons be reduced? No: in the medium term, we will only aggravate the deficit in our trade balance by 1%, the equivalent of the share produced in France of our oil consumption. On the other hand, we will have seriously unbalanced the economies of certain territories, in particular ultramarine ones, without being able to offer them any solution of decline in terms of jobs. You will weaken our state-of-the-art industries and block any possibility of research, as my colleague said right away, as well as the investments associated with it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This article, instead of responding to a clearly identified threat, will only change the international image of our President. It will not achieve the goal of reducing consumption and will not result in any reduction of our emissions – or even aggravate them. Moreover, both energy and economic, it does not provide for any fallback solution for the benefit of the population. Once again, you oppose those who can afford to preserve the environment to all others, to the eternal losers of your policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u196	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u197	Having already made most of my arguments in the defence of the motion to reject, I will not insult you to repeat them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u198	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u199	I shall therefore limit myself to two points. Firstly, during the debates in committee, we have added coal to the list of substances covered by the ban, again without an impact assessment being able to predict the effects of such a decision on the territories concerned. Secondly, we have changed the definition of mine gas. Minister, this amendment requires clarification from you. The text now refers to "gas in previously mined coal veins". Mine gas is no longer in the coal veins, it has already migrated, it is in the mining voids. Would it not have been preferable to refer to a gas from the coal veins whose surface suction is carried out without any intervention other than the depression of the tank? It would be more consistent with geological reality. I would like to make this point because the provisions of Article 3 seem to me to prevent the exploitation of mine gas as you define it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u200	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u201	Article 1 is very important. It puts an end, at the end of 2040, to the concessions previously granted, with the only exception that my colleague has just mentioned for mine gas. I can't believe it. Everyone knows the environmental and safety issues that are being asked. This proactive text makes it possible to take an extremely important step. It is a concrete translation of the commitments made in the framework of the Paris Agreement, to which I believe we are all committed here. It seems to me important to recall this context at a time when the position of the United States is endangering the balance found in Paris in 2015. As rapporteur for the reform of the mining code, resulting from Jean-Paul Chanteguet's bill, which we had been able to examine in extremis before the end of the previous legislature, I can testify that we had achieved a satisfactory balance which guaranteed, in some of our territories, the preservation of controlled mining activity and economic dynamism. However, these guarantees only concerned compliance with environmental procedures, which is an essential element, it is true, but insufficient. The deadline of 2040, formally included in the text, is excellent news in that it clearly initiates a gradual exit from fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u202	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u203	I would like to draw some conclusions from the discussions I have just heard, which raise questions on three points: ethics, limits and coherence. As far as ethics are concerned, all those who come from rural areas and have a little memory know, those who took care of land sharing when they were trade unionists were themselves self-sufficient and respectful of the regulations that they applied to others by force of trade unionism and mutualization. We have to set an example. France is more than a symbol. It must have the authority to carry its word internationally in order to contribute to the salvation of humanity – that is at stake. On the other hand, every time you set a limit in the law, you hear the same speeches. This has been the case in the case of accidents at work, the reduction in the volume of waste in the Grenelle de l'Environnement, or the ban on pesticides. Every time we talked about the end of the world. In reality, it was each time the beginning of a new world, a technological leap, a social break, the appearance of another way of doing things. The law, by imposing an obligation, forces us to innovate, to invent things that we do not regret afterwards. Finally, I would like to call for coherence. The New Left Group continues to defend, on the one hand, coherence and solidarity between the territories concerned and the others, for the benefit of the most fragile; on the other hand, international coherence. You mentioned, Mr Minister, the concerns about CETA. These are not just about the huge imbalance that would result from the importation of oil shales from the Atlantic, even though we prohibit their exploitation. This treaty could indeed cause even greater disorder. At a joint hearing before the Committees on Economic Affairs and Foreign Affairs, Sophie Devienne, member of the independent committee responsible for assessing the impact of CETA, said that the disorders created by the trade in milk and meat between Canada and the European Union would have important agro-ecological and ecosystem consequences, including in terms of carbon balance. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and MODEM groups]] In the dynamic of this law, the treaties must establish a duty of vigilance on the part of multinationals, demanding that they respect human rights and the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u205	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No. 88, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u206	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u208	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u209	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u210	The purpose of the amendment is to clarify, consistent with the wording of this bill, that the derogations contained in future sections L. 111-4 to L. 111-9 of the Mining Code will apply to non-conventional hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u212	The amendment seems counterproductive in the sense that it aims to reduce the scope of the prohibition on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to non-conventional hydrocarbons, thereby de facto depriving Article 1 of its wider scope. The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u214	The Government expressed an unfavourable opinion. Article 1 is intended to take into account all liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons without distinction as to the methods of exploration or exploitation which would allow them to be classified as conventional or non-conventional.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u215	Mr David Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 82, second rectification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u216	The bill was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 6 September for consideration in the National Assembly on 3 October. When we found out that there was a big oblivion – about Lacq – we all tried to find a solution. Supported by parliamentarians who go in your direction, such as Delphine Batho, we have sought to maintain in this basin activities that are not directly related to gas activity, but concern related products, which are the origin of certain industries. On this occasion, a person from Edward Philippe's office, with whom I was in contact, almost discovered that it was necessary to extract and exploit gas to obtain sulphur. When he was unrelentingly shown that it was necessary to maintain the possibility of extracting gas in order to preserve on the Lacq basin the world's first thiochemistry pole, which employs 750 people, she admitted that something had to be proposed. To this end, I have tabled the amendment, which seeks to define the concept of fatal gas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u218	I share your concern. However, I suggest that you withdraw the amendment in favour of Amendment No 207, which will be called later, and whose wording seems more satisfactory to me. Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion. I fear that the introduction of the concept of fatal gas in the text will be counterproductive, because the fatal gas is a gas that cannot be avoided.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u219	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u220	No! At Lacq, sulphide gas is not a fatal gas. The proposed definition would therefore be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u222	We have had the opportunity to address this issue. The amendment under discussion is identical to Amendment No 22. I therefore give you the same answer as the rapporteur. I hope, however, that I can find a meeting point, thanks to Amendments Nos 206 and 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u223	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u224	I withdraw the amendment, taking into account the information you give me and the good will of the Government. To those who do not know the subject, I would point out that the Lacq basin is not a pending territory. We are not trying to defend at all costs the activities that we could have condemned by history and the economy. Many speakers have promised us tonight that a new world will come. But since the discovery of the deposit in the 1950s, the mutations have been incessant. Seven years ago, with all the trade unions – and on their proposal – and with industrial groups, including Total and Arkema, we decided not to send our gas into the pipes for commercial use and to reserve it for industrial use only. This explains why there are 7,500 jobs left in this basin, while there were 8,000 thirty years ago. This figure is used to measure the effort made. Despite the evolution of industry in our country, despite the industrial decline, we have taken on the changes in our economy ourselves and sought to accompany them with trade unions and industrialists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u225	Mr David Habib has the floor to support Amendment No. 78, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u226	This was another attempt to find a solution. I withdraw the amendment, since the Minister of State has given me a considerable promise.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u227	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u228	The amendment proposes to define the concept of non-conventional hydrocarbons. It introduces explicit terminology to identify shale gases and oils, better known as non-conventional hydrocarbons. It thus gives a real definition, because there is no official distinction today between the different types of hydrocarbons, whether conventional or non-conventional.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u230	You know, we find the same molecules in conventional hydrocarbons or not. That is why, in the text, we preferred to base the distinction between hydrocarbons on their extraction technique. If it is non-conventional, hydrocarbon is considered non-conventional. This clarification was introduced in Article 3, adopted by the Commission, which aims to complement the 2011 law by broadening the scope of non-conventional techniques whose use is prohibited. In this sense, Article 3 satisfies your amendment, which I therefore suggest that you withdraw. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u232	Each one's role, Mr. Member of Parliament. The Council of State considered that the definition of non-conventional hydrocarbons was not technically and scientifically consensual. As it stands, the Government is therefore against your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u233	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u234	The definition of gas can be interpreted as not excluding layer gas. Therefore, for the sake of accuracy, the purpose of this amendment is to define the difference between mine gas or fire gas, which is enclosed in old coal mines, and which is required for safety reasons, and layer gas, which is in previously unexploited veins.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u236	This time again, unfavorable opinion. It does not seem to us desirable to prohibit the use of the technique of depression, which is necessary for the exploitation of the firedamp.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u238	The Commission's improvements have led to satisfactory drafting. I am therefore against any change.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u239	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u240	I would like this debate to be used for clarification. In his amendment, Mr Habib proposed a definition of mine gas very similar to the one I myself suggested when speaking on the article. The current wording refers to gas "located in previously mined coal veins". In fact, the mine gas is from the coal veins. It is not in the coal veins but in the voids, and can be recovered by depressurization. Does the Government wish to prohibit the extraction of layer gas, which poses, in particular in Moselle, the problem of the expropriation of the operator carrying out this type of activity? Or does he wish to include in this ban coal gases present in Nord-Pas-de-Calais and Moselle, in which case it is probably necessary to revise the definition, which seems too precise, and return to the model proposed by David Habib? The legislator must be clear about what he wants to prohibit or allow. Behind us there are operators, who must know on which side they stand in relation to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u241	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u242	We won't have an answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u243	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u244	As we deal with technical matters, I pay tribute to the Jacob Act, promulgated on July 13, 2011, as the only piece of legislation to protect territories and populations from shale gas. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that any exploration or exploitation of non-conventional hydrocarbons is prohibited whatever its method, in order to avoid any use of any method other than hydraulic fracture by 2040, the date of the scheduled shutdown of the last current concessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u245	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u246	Unfavorable opinion. As it stands, the text avoids any risk. In any case, the amendment does not solve the problem of possible exploitation of non-conventional hydrocarbons under a permit already granted – unlike the wording of Article 3, adopted in committee, which amends the 2011 Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u248	Unfavorable opinion. In all existing concessions for the exploitation of conventional deposits, sequestration is carried out in a rock from which the hydrocarbons can be extracted without the use of hydraulic fracturing. It is only on this type of deposit that existing exclusive research permits carry. The Council of State has considered that the current arrangements do not in any way allow exploration and exploitation projects outside this framework to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u249	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u250	I would like to be sure to understand the rapporteur's arguments. I am objected that the amendment does not address the issue of unconventional hydrocarbon permits, but I understood that there were no valid ones to date?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u251	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u252	It's forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u253	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u254	There are currently no permits for non-conventional hydrocarbons. So we don't need to solve the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u255	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u256	This amendment proposes that the exploration or exploitation of non-conventional hydrocarbons be punished by the withdrawal of the permit to explore or exploit and by a fine of EUR 1 million per drilling. You will have understood that this is a lock, a guarantee complementary to the prohibition to explore or exploit shale gas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u258	The first draft of the amendment is to provide for the withdrawal of the permit to sanction the exploration or exploitation of non-conventional hydrocarbons. That is the subject of Amendment No 75 by Mrs Batho, on which I will deliver a favourable opinion and which will be called later. This amendment is in fact part of the chapter on administrative sanctions in the mining code, which I think is more relevant in drafting terms. I have also tabled Amendment No 199, which provides for penalties to be included in the chapter of the mining code on criminal penalties for non-compliance with the prohibition on exploration and exploitation of non-conventional hydrocarbons. This amendment proposes a penalty of two years' imprisonment and a fine of 35,000 euros, consistent with the other sanctions in the mining code. I therefore suggest that you withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u260	Unfavorable opinion. In my view, the amendment is satisfactory. The mining code contains a system of sanctions which provides for the withdrawal of the mineral title and a fine, in the event of the use of hydraulic fracturing, the only technique which allows the exploration or exploitation of non-conventional hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u261	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 79 and 99. I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u262	The amendment concerns the search for conventional hydrocarbons. I cannot understand your proposal, Minister of State, since the search for conventional hydrocarbons has no impact on the environment. When seismic campaigns are organized, huge trucks are positioned that record the realities of the basement for three or four months. I cannot understand this prohibition, all the more so, Mr Minister of State, since France has real know-how in this area. We have proven technology; with the Americans, we are probably the best in the world. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, I want to stress one point underestimated by the impact study: the oil and para-oil sector occupies 25,000 jobs in Béarn, with a research centre – I am talking about it all the more easily because it is not in my constituency – which positions Pau as the European capital of geosciences. Prohibiting research on national soil – while it might be useful for geothermal energy – will inevitably lead to the disappearance of this research centre. It will not be able to remain in our territory, where it will be forbidden to seek to know the realities of our basement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u264	I don't give a shit about Parisian bobos!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u265	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u266	[["Ah! » on the benches of the group The Republicans]] First of all, let me quote: "Exploration activity with the contribution of mining and coal mining activities is the source of much of the knowledge gained on the deep subsoil of certain parts of our territory. Data from exploration shall be transferred free of charge to the State which collects and maintains the data. They are a very important and useful knowledge capital for current and future subsurface resource development projects. [...] By improving the knowledge of the subsoil, the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons has fed all subsoil-related sectors, both for deep hydrogeological exploration, for underground storage sites for liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons or industrial chemicals, for CO storage, for geothermal energy or for scientific and geological knowledge in general. Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, these words have not been communicated to me by the oil companies. No, they come from the website of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LC groups]] I would therefore like to thank you, Minister of State, for telling the national representative what means you will now be able to devote to research and knowledge of the subsoil. In my department of Marne, in Montmirail, a company has decided to commit 4 million euros to carry out subsoil studies, the results of which will be communicated to the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research – the BRGM. This is the reality: by putting an end to the research, you deprive France of the knowledge of its basement, unless you announce the substantial increase in the financial and human resources devoted to the BRGM, which I doubt. By putting an end to the search, you also force a generation of geologists to leave. What opportunities do you offer geology students, except to exercise their skills elsewhere?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u268	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u269	Member of the European Parliament, Member of the European Parliament, I think we should avoid any amalgam. Hydrocarbon research is prohibited, but geology and geothermal research are not covered by this text. I think the answer is clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u270	Not quite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u271	Obviously, they don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u272	On the other hand, the prohibition of exploration and research is the very heart of this text. Today, in my opinion, the search for hydrocarbons from the field of the text, without allowing exploitation, would be meaningless by way of an amendment. Indeed, only the opportunity to exploit, and thus to profit from, their investments, encourages economic actors to explore and seek. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u273	It's getting less and less clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u275	It is the search for hydrocarbons that is prohibited by this law, while research, for example, of geothermal gites, is in no way condemned by this law. The Government's opinion was therefore also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u276	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u277	These two excellent amendments, which, moreover, come from benches which are not close to each other, clearly demonstrate the ambiguity of an approach which is part of the ban on a technique, because it harms the environment, leading to a ban on research.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u278	But no, we just told you the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u279	Some might describe this evolution as "obscurantist." I would not go so far even if, obviously, we would have less geological knowledge after the passing of this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u280	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u281	If you rely on geothermal exploration alone to know the nature of the soil, it is the sign that you give great confidence to this sector, which is not as developed as the hydrocarbon sector. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] If, to some extent, banning the resource seems to be anti-economic, prohibiting research, i.e. the desire to know, to know, goes far beyond the precautionary principle. Earlier, the Minister of State spoke of giraffes and ostriches: let's bet that few ostriches will look below the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u282	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u283	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I find it difficult to understand this debate and the purpose of these amendments. What is the point of allowing research in the field of hydrocarbons without allowing production – the text whose purpose is to ban it? I see no society engaging in research for the pleasure of searching. I really do not see why these amendments are tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u284	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u285	I have heard several times in the discussion and in the opening speeches the reference to I do not know what "obscurantism". I would like to recall that the motivations of this bill are based on scientific knowledge. Indeed, it is scientists – those of the IPCC, in this case, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – who have established the reality of human responsibility in global warming...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u286	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u287	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, REM, MODEM and some benches of the FI group]] ... and which have shown the link between it and the consumption of fossil fuels. So obscurantism is not on the side of those who defend this bill. I believe in the progress of scientific knowledge. To promote it, we must listen to the scientists who tell us that if we want to keep the trajectory of global warming below two degrees by the end of the century, action is actually taking place in the next five to ten years, and not even by 2040.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u288	Not about 1% of our consumption!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u289	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group as well as on several benches of the REM and FI groups]] Then, you mention the question of the knowledge of the basement, which is, in fact, very important. We will return to this in the debate on the reform of the mining code. In fact, in Jean-Paul Chanteguet's bill, we made a series of proposals on the knowledge of the basement – an objective that I do not think is contested. I would like to recall that the term "research" in previous debates on shale gas – but this is also true for our current discussion – is often the Trojan horse of those who want the exploitation of hydrocarbons – unconventional yesterday, conventional today. In fact, you are playing with words because, in the mining code, as the rapporteur has explained very well, the word "search" means "exploration". However, the same mining code establishes an automatic link between exploration and exploitation. In fact, what you are not saying is that, if the word "search" is removed from the text, as you propose, research permits will be awarded and, under the right of succession, concessions will have to be granted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u290	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u291	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u292	You really have to pay attention to the words you use. It's important. We have had a good debate so far. We must not allow ourselves to go to words such as "obscurantism" or, as we heard earlier, to a form of caricature depicting punitive ecology. It is a real political choice to assume that tomorrow we will do research in areas other than hydrocarbons. Pay attention to the words we use...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u293	It's the thought police!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u294	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u295	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] ... and let us not try to circumvent our political objectives by resorting to somewhat specious arguments, such as that relating to research.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u296	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u297	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that hydrocarbons associated with the operation of a mining substance that remains legally authorized, as is the case with sulphur, can be exploited if and only if the extraction of either material is indissociable. This is the case for sulphide gas, produced by the extraction of a gas mixture whose specific composition makes it non-substitutable for the industry concerned. In Lacq, in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, sulfide gas is the product of an industrial process that benefits from numerous petrochemical outlets and supplies energy to an important area. A cluster launched in 2013, Lacq Cluster Chemistry, has built a leading-edge research and development industry that brings together both public partners – local authorities, research centres – and private companies. For example, the Arkema plant, which employs more than 300 employees, produces polymers, polyamide powders, sulphur, and their derivatives are used in pharmaceuticals, agrochemistry, mining, cosmetics, textiles, as well as stationery, or photography. This is why the Lacq Basin could suffer a considerable loss of jobs. The disappearance of know-how and innovation would be dramatic if this bill did not explicitly provide for the exclusion of sulphide gas from the scope of the section, which is not permitted by any other legal means. I therefore propose, together with my colleagues MODEM from the Pyrénées-Atlantiques and the MODEM Group, to adopt this common-sense amendment, which will preserve employment in our territories without prejudice to the spirit of the text: the extraction of a gas generated in connection with the exploitation of a mining substance is not one of the practices which this article tends to prohibit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u299	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u300	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u301	Mr Mattei – I also turn to you, Mr Habib, since it also concerns you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u302	A little!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u303	Even a lot! With these amendments, we have an example of intelligent co-construction with Parliament and an illustration of an approach consistent with the Government's objectives on hydrocarbons. Indeed, this amendment satisfies our desire for progressivity and our rejection of any brutality towards employees and companies. As we said, 2040 is both close and far away. Much has been said about those who would eventually be penalized by the application of the text, but I hope to demonstrate very quickly that it will mainly benefit many people. We share your concern, which is to secure industrial activities, without ever abandoning our objective of combating climate change. An oil concession may be related to another resource. That is precisely the case in Lacq, an example that you cited in referring to sulphur. The bill that we are defending is intended to ban the exploitation of hydrocarbons, but not sulphur, or other substances. The amendments proposed by Mr Mattei, which we support, are in the direction of a balanced position. Indeed, they do not constitute an incentive to exploit the hydrocarbons, which was my fear: the consideration of a particular situation must not represent a breach in which others could get involved. Amendment No 207 is therefore intended to allow the exploitation of another resource contained in hydrocarbons, but in order not to be a breach of the very principle on which the bill is based, it obliges the company to leave the extracted hydrocarbons in the basement by searching for another substance. It certainly allows their local valuation – I insist on this word – but never allows them to be commercialized. The spirit of the bill is thus preserved, since we are putting an end to the interest of exploiting hydrocarbons – in this case, gas – by removing the means of valuing them economically. For all these reasons, we are in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u304	I should like to inform you that I will exceptionally give the floor to three speakers on this amendment: Mr Aubert, Mr Habib and Mr Pancher. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u305	Mr Minister of State, earlier on, I asked you a question about the preceding paragraph, which referred to David Habib's withdrawn amendment and concerned the definition of mine gas. From coal, it is found in Nord-Pas-de-Calais, in mining voids, i.e. mining galleries. As for the layer gas, it is found in Moselle and recovered from coal. The problem with the definition that has been adopted in committee is that we are talking about a gas located in the previously exploited coal veins – which seems to refer rather to the layer gas – but then we are talking about the mining voids, which rather refers to the mine gas. So I ask the question very clearly: what is allowed and what is not? Is the idea to ban layer gas, recovered from coal, in Moselle? Shouldn't we forge a definition from the technical point of view? These two gases are recovered in the same way, putting the tank into depression. Since the method is the same, rather than talking about a gas in the coal veins, it should be said "from the coal veins". This is an important question because in Article 3, saying that we cannot change the impermeability of the rock, you actually prohibit any drilling. But if drilling is prohibited, an operator like the French one of energy who would like to exploit the layer gas in Moselle is prohibited from existence. It is therefore an expropriation. The legislator must be clear about what he forbids and what he wants to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u306	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u307	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u308	Mr Minister of State, you have invented short gas circuits: this is the meaning of this amendment to which you agree. I want, with great sincerity, to greet you for your ability to listen. What we know from the Lacq basement suggests that we have eighty years of sulphur extraction industry ahead of us. The thiochemistry pole represents 750 jobs out of a total of 7500 jobs in the Lacq basin. Everyone therefore measures the stakes. I have noted, with great respect, your willingness to understand the operation of the site, and you are now invited to Lacq and Béarn whenever you want.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u309	"From now on"?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u310	[[Smile]] [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] It is a real work of co-construction because everyone was able to see that on many subjects I did not agree with the text. Delphine Batho has pleaded with you and your services for taking this reality into account, and here I want to greet her and recognize that we can diverge, including in the same political formation, but find bridges – this will inspire you quickly. I rely on this amendment from the MODEM Group, tabled by my friend Jean-Paul Mattei. This quality amendment, close to the one I had tabled myself, allows us to find a solution; So this is an important moment for this territory. We have some concerns for the Jean-Féger Centre in Pau, a city administered by François Bayrou, but I am very satisfied with the decision made regarding the Lacq Basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u311	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u312	Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that everything was to end in 2040 has led to a complicated debate in our group in the Committee on Sustainable Development. We hoped that where it was possible to pursue industrial activities, particularly in the context of local consumption or processing, a compromise would be reached. These amendments are very important. Our group had tabled another one, which was in exactly the same direction, to make it clear that the extraction of sulphur dioxide did not fall within the scope of the prohibitions provided for in the text. The adoption of this provision opens up interesting prospects for us. It was a real blocking point, and its resolution will raise a series of concerns among our group's parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u313	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u314	Mr. Aubert, you asked me about mine gas, fire, layer gas and coal gas. The mine gas, known as the firedamp, is first located in the coal veins, but it regularly leaves it to travel through the empty spaces of the mines; Of course, we'll have the opportunity to store it. Coal gas is definitely banned. I do not believe that you have tabled an amendment to that effect, but we will return to this issue in the following amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u315	That is not what is marked in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u316	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u317	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u318	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u319	The problem is that there may be infinitesimal amounts of sulphur in many of the gases explored elsewhere than in the deposit you were aiming for. I propose that you withdraw this amendment, since we have adopted Amendment No 207 and we are going to consider Amendment No 206. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u320	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor in support of Amendment No 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u321	I am not going to repeat the debate that has already taken place in committee. We thought that in paragraph 10, reference should be made to the deadline of 2040; That is the meaning of Amendment No 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u322	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u323	The Commission is not in favour of including in this paragraph the words "by 2040" because the expiry of certain concessions goes beyond that date. Thus, the North Lake concession expires in 2041; that of the Arbousiers in 2045. Panot spoke of a concession that expired in 2054. The Minister of State referred to five cases, and there are two others that concern the firecracker and therefore do not pose a problem. Given these exceptions, it seems to us difficult to adopt your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u324	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u325	In fact, your amendment is aimed at possible concessions that could be granted under the right of succession. I believe that your concern can be met by the amendment that the Government is about to propose. At this stage, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u326	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 206.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u327	The aim of this amendment is to secure for the future deposits in which oil-related substances, such as sulphur dioxide, are valued in the Lacq basin. The aim is to allow, before 2040, the existing concessions of sulphurous gas – which, in the case of Lacq, provide a petrochemical-based industrial basin – to preserve jobs. This amendment seeks to respect the spirit of the text while ensuring the economic balance of the territories, since only oil-related and profitable concessions will be renewed. It will also make it possible to exploit new uses of the subsoil, such as geothermal energy, the storage of CO or other processes still under study, such as the capture of rare metals in waters at 2000 metres deep, which would, for example, allow the manufacture of batteries. This openness is essential in order to drive the energy transition while giving us the opportunity to prepare for tomorrow's uses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u328	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u329	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u330	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u331	Same reason, same punishment: this amendment seems to us to provide a solution for concessions that exploit related substances, such as Lacq. The Government is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u332	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u333	We're talking a lot about geothermal, related activity. But I would like, Mr Minister of State, to have a clear answer to me, before the national representative: will this text be voted on, whether or not hydraulic fracturing is prohibited for deep geothermal energy? This question concerns this text, and beyond that, the mining code. In my constituency, I once saw good people arrive – without asking for the advice of local elected officials and even less of the president of the local water commission, CLE, of the layout and water management scheme, SAGE – to explain to me that they had to be granted a research permit and that there was nothing to be afraid of. But as the president of the CLE du SAGE and other colleagues took care to read some of the 600 pages of the research permit, it was found that there were two holes of 5000 meters deep, which used deep geothermal, and in particular hydraulic fracturing, under the CERN loop, between the Haute-Savoie and Geneva, in the heart of the Arve valley that you know well. My question is simple: after the debate on this text and all the amendments, will the mining code allow deep geothermal energy using hydraulic fracturing? If that is the case, you will agree, we have not worked properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u334	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 85 and 140. I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u335	There are moments, Mr President, when, as a precaution, you have to be quiet. I have just been very pleased with the adoption of an amendment and I would not like my remarks to call this decision into question. I do, however, take the microphone because the approach we have developed with Jean-Paul Mattei has benefited from the support of Josy Poueyto and Florence Lasserre. It is a collective work that has been carried out. I didn't mention them earlier, so I wouldn't want them to think I was macho.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u336	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 140.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u337	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister of State, without wishing to repeat me, the search for hydrocarbons in the country's basement has been and still is a major source of geological knowledge, particularly at great depth. It is therefore important not to give up the acquisition and preservation of this data capital, important for the vitality of the fields of geoscience which constitute a flagship and a pole of excellence of scientific research in France. It is also essential to keep in mind that the collection and interpretation of this information contributes decisively to the prospects for the development of all subsoil sectors, such as geothermal energy or CO storage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u339	The adoption of these amendments would deprive the text of much of its scope. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u341	At the risk of repeating myself, the cessation of research activities seems to us to be consistent with the gradual cessation of oil production. Of course it's a bad opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u342	I have before me three amendments, Nos 109, 20 and 110, which can be presented together. Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u343	In order to prepare for the future, in terms of the environment, there must be a wider scope for research on new energy resources, with due regard for our environment. If we don't, our neighbors will. In view of the ongoing operations in Guyana, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, Mayotte and the West Indies, these amendments are intended to exclude offshore oil exploration from the scope of the law. In the long term, oil exploration would be of considerable economic importance to the ultramarine territories concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u344	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u345	This is again to exclude certain territories from the scope of this bill, in order to reduce its scope. That's not our goal. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u346	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u347	In order to avoid taking a number of legal risks, we have already limited the scope of this text. I don't want to limit it even more; The Government is therefore opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u348	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u349	Mr Minister, you have said that for legal reasons you prefer to reject these amendments. I do not want to be controversial, but rather I believe that it is the non-compliance with the legal framework in force that puts us in this situation. As I have already said, the Overseas Guidance Act of 13 December 2000 transferred the power to issue mining titles to the overseas territorial authorities, in particular Guyana. However, the passage of this bill will have the effect of throwing this jurisdiction into the trash, so to speak. In my view, it is above all at this level that legal uncertainty lies. I don't know if you know this story about a man who says to his son, "Let me empty the pool before you dive into it. Well, I think that's exactly what we're doing. You said that the implementing order for the measure I mentioned was signed. However, I realized that this is not the case. Perhaps it will be after the passage of this bill: it is really putting the plough before the ox. I stress that if there is legal uncertainty, it is in the chronological articulation of the implementing decree provided for by the LOOM of 2000 and this bill. I wanted to say that to show our dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u350	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No 89, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u351	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u352	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 150.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u353	We consider these hydrocarbon exploration and extraction activities to be potential sources of groundwater pollution. We share the concerns of long-standing citizens' associations and collectives on these issues. The BRGM has identified approximately 450 aquifers of potable drinking water. Although the mining industry promotes the concept of "responsible operations" – even the outmoded expression of "green activity" –, its model is based on the use of large amounts of chemical reagents. Pollution from oil spills is a danger for decades to come. Even after the activity is stopped, these products remain very toxic – even fatal – for ecosystems and humans. The quality of groundwater is to be preserved at all costs. It is an objective of public safety and health. In our view, these violations constitute an obstacle to the constitutional right of everyone to "live in a balanced and healthy environment", as stated in Article 1 of the Environmental Charter. We therefore wish, by this amendment, to strengthen the existing law and to ensure that no more drilling for the exploitation and extraction of hydrocarbons can be carried out through drinking water.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u354	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u355	Mr President, the vast majority of oil operations currently under way require the passage of groundwater. This amendment would therefore lead to the ban on almost all farms. That is not the purpose of this text. In addition, the State makes mining work conditional upon obtaining authorization and subjects it to drastic controls, which ensure the protection of groundwater. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u356	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u357	As you can imagine, I fully share the concerns and concerns you have expressed about the protection of aquifers – although they may not deserve them. This bill deals only with the granting and extension of mining titles. I can assure you that your objective is already satisfied because all the mining work – this has just been mentioned –, particularly in the case of hydrocarbons, is subject to prefectural authorisation. This involves carrying out an impact assessment and a hazard study. In addition, prefectural authorizations are subject to controls including the protection of aquifers. Inspections are carried out several times a year to monitor these facilities. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u358	I have before me two amendments, Nos 3 and 4, which can be presented together. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u359	Paragraph 13 gives me the feeling of having returned to the time of witch hunts, at a time of obscurantism. Research permits will no longer be issued, including for experimental purposes, when we do not know what technological solutions will be used in ten or twenty years! It does not seem reasonable to us to delete all research, 'including for experimental purposes': that is why we propose, in Amendment No 3, to delete this expression. If Amendment No 4 was not to be accepted – which I cannot even imagine – then Amendment No 3 tends to insert, after the word "experimental", the following restriction: "unless neutral impact on the environment". Frankly, why prevent experimental research that would not have any proven impact on the environment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u360	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u361	In the same vein as the replies to the previous amendments, I will tell you that allowing the search for hydrocarbons without then allowing their exploitation would be an incentive for economic actors to embark on a business with lost funds. That is why the committee's opinion on Amendment No 3 is unfavorable. As for Amendment No. 4, the notion of "neutral impact on the environment" that it is intended to include in the bill seems to us to be somewhat unclear from a legal point of view. We have already said that in committee. The committee's opinion is therefore also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u362	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u363	I don't see who would want to look for hydrocarbons without being able to exploit them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u364	Yet, researchers looking for them, we find them...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u365	The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u366	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u367	The Group of the European People's Party will obviously vote against these amendments. I repeat: pay attention to the words you use, do not fall into caricature, do not speak of obscurantism! Our political choices differ, in fact: our objective is to stop the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, your objectives are not the same. Be careful, words make sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u368	That's why we're using them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u369	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u370	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Such words, which are so heavy with meaning, should not be used like this, casually: they are not up to the height of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u371	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u372	You are right, ladies and gentlemen, let us live up to the words we use. Let us therefore stop using the term "carbon neutrality" when this text will have no impact on the amount of CO released into the environment. To respect the words, let's start by not mixing the meaning of the words "consumption" and "production". [[Rites and exclamations on a few benches of the REM group]] The discussion of this text began with a series of declarations referring to the Paris agreements and to targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. So you're the one playing with words! Unfortunately, this text denies reality. So much so that a spectator who is watching our debates might think that it is a matter of getting out of the oil addiction, when there is no provision in this bill to that effect: you simply substitute an import for a production. These are clear and well-defined words. If you really want to talk about the meaning of words, then why didn't you agree to talk about mine gas, as I proposed earlier? Because that would lead you to review the wording of this bill, which does not mean much.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u373	What about the energy transition law?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u374	As far as I'm concerned, this law...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u375	That means everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u376	I have witnessed all the debates on this law, and I do not believe that the same can be said of you. You didn't come across the right person!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u377	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u378	Mr Saddier, you asked me about hydraulic fracturing in the geothermal industry. This bill does not prohibit this practice because it only applies to hydrocarbons. However, geothermal technologies have evolved – the least we can say. They're not perfect, but there's less and less fracturing...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u379	There's less and less, but there's always more.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u380	The geothermal works are supervised, at each stage, by the procedure for granting the permit, then by the concession, and finally by the authorization of the works. I would add that the low and medium depth geothermal energy – as is the case in Île-de-France – obviously does not use heavy techniques.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u381	They still have an impact on the environment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u382	I'm not saying otherwise. One last word about what you just said, because there's one thing I can't understand. You persist in saying that this bill will penalise our economic actors by prohibiting them first from exploring and then, by 2040, from exploiting them. You add that the end of the operation will lead us to import 1% more oil: that's what I hear you repeat in the loop. And if that were the case, then you would be right: all this would be useless, and the climate battle should be dropped. But our goal is to significantly reduce our consumption – and therefore our imports – of hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u383	But that is not the purpose of this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u384	I said that this bill is not a whole: it is only a brick, but an additional element to complement existing devices. The Energy Transition Act sets broad objectives; Little by little, the arrangements that we are making are getting worse. They all go in the same direction. And as Delphine Batho said, our example will have the strength of authority. France has a credit in diplomacy. She was able to play it to complete the first stage, namely the Paris Agreement; It is up to us to also play in the next steps. But you know that it is not only France that has made commitments under this agreement: it has been signed by 196 states! Other countries have also made heavy commitments. Just look at India. I met a few years ago, well before the Paris agreement, President Modi. He said to me, "Mr. Hulot, I believe in climate change, but that is not my priority, because I was elected so that the 500 million Indians who do not have access to electricity could connect to it, and so that the other 500 million, who only have access to it one hour a day, would have access to it all day. And for that, I will use what I have: coal. » [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This is the speech Mr Modi made a few years ago. At present, it has committed itself to fully engaging in renewable energies and to using coal only at a minimum. Each one his own effort, each his own ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u385	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u386	First of all, I thank the Minister of State for the accuracy of his answer – even though it was a little off-set on geothermal – since we are now sure that at this stage hydraulic fracturing is not prohibited when using deep geothermal. I hear his message about drilling, particularly on Île-de-France, but our country does not understand that this region, deep drilling using hydraulic fracturing is required elsewhere – 5000 meters deep, it is not tinkering – in areas where aquifers have been clearly identified. I also hear the position of the Constitutional Council, and Delphine Batho here knows these subjects perfectly. But I think that, in view of the reform of the mining code, there will be a need to clarify whether or not hydraulic fracturing is being used for geothermal energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u387	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u388	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u389	The aim of this amendment is to ban the search for new deposits only from 2030, the theoretical date of a 30% reduction in fossil fuel consumption as set out in the climate plan. It is therefore proposed that these two dates be reconciled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u390	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u391	Your amendment, my dear colleague, intends to ban the granting of research permits not from the enactment of the law but from 2030, and therefore to postpone the application of the law by twelve years. Combined with paragraph 14 on the right of continuation, it would lead to the operation of hydrocarbons well beyond 2040 for a very large number of concessions. It therefore goes against the objective of the bill. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u392	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u393	We are already trying to make waterproof as far as possible the deadline of 2040; You will understand, honourable Member, that your amendment does not go in that direction and that the Government is against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u394	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 23 and 40. Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u395	This amendment provides that the granting of new exclusive research permits, which have been frozen for several years, could be granted for those whose applications were submitted prior to the announcement of this bill in order to avoid any risk of a boon effect. I underline the large number of pending applications identified by the Council of State: 129 were outstanding as of 1 July 2015, including some 30 dated more than 10 years, which undermines the credibility of the State's signature and is a bad signal to foreign investors, who do not understand why they are not told "yes" or "no" in a precise way. It seems to me that the proposed provision does not run counter to the spirit of the text, since it is only a question of allowing the industrialists who invested and created employment in the territories to develop geological research before 2040 in respect of pre-existing applications and who have been left behind due to the delay of the administration. In particular, this research could make it possible to discover before the above date other exploitable minerals and sources of economic dynamism for our regions, ores possibly intended for uses other than thermal motors, in order not to undermine the balance or the objective of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u396	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u397	It is intended to allow for the granting of new exclusive permits for research requested prior to the announcement of the climate plan by the Government when exploratory projects have reached maturity, i.e. when petitioners have already incurred significant expenditure in order to acquire data and be able to drill as soon as the permit is granted, where the environmental impact is reduced because the site is close to a concession and it is possible to use existing infrastructure in case of discovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u398	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u399	There are already thirty-one valid research permits. It seems to the commission that going further in the authorizations would be to put in the circuit a lot of additional permits, which is not in the spirit of the bill that has the 2040 deadline. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u400	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u401	In the same spirit as the rapporteur's reply, I would point out that I have already recovered certain permits on which, in order to avoid litigation, we cannot go back, but we will now close the ban. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u402	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u403	The right of continuation, enshrined in article L. 132-6 of the new mining code, is a quasi-automatic right to a concession for research permit holders. In order to avoid the opening of remedies which could prove costly to the State and with the aim of giving the State a margin of manoeuvre to refuse to grant concessions in the light of environmental risks, the amendment seeks to regulate this right of continuation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u404	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u405	Mr Brun, I understand your intention, but today there is no concession granted for the exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbons. There is therefore no need to provide that the extension of such concessions should be prohibited. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u406	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 17, 24 and 142. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u407	The right to operate within the perimeter of a concession is inherent in the holding of that title by its holder. While it is essential to maintain the right of continuation, we also believe that it is necessary for the Republican Group to take account of the potential discoveries and developments of new deposits and reserves. If not, the infringement of the acquired rights of a concession holder over the scope of the concession would be manifest and give rise to the legal fragility of the law. We propose this amendment to help you, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u408	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u409	He's being defended, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u410	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u411	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u412	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u413	These amendments are already satisfied with existing legislation. Any holder of a concession has the right to exploit and develop the substances within the said concession for which he obtained it. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u414	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u415	Your objective, which I share, seems to me already satisfied. The Government was opposed to those amendments, which were not necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u416	Mr. Aubert? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u417	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u418	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u419	The aim of this amendment is to prevent the exploitation of new concessions only from 2030, the theoretical date of a 30% reduction in fossil fuel consumption set by the climate plan. That is the same logic as for Amendment No 5 which I defended earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u421	The same logic, the same answer: to shift law enforcement by twelve years does not seem relevant to us. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u422	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 112 and 177. Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u423	This is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u424	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u425	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u426	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u427	The Government is relying on the wisdom of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u428	[[Smile]] Holà!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u429	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 7, 25, 38 and 95. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u430	Still in the logic of not brutally stopping the exploitation of hydrocarbons and knowing that, even if the Government has the objective of setting an example, France is to date the only country to undertake such an approach – you have at no time specified to us, Mr. Minister of State, if other countries were to go in the same direction – it seems to me important to postpone the final deadline for renewed oil concessions to 2050.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u431	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u432	The deadline of 2040 could be chosen for symbolic reasons... We are used to the famous energy transition law that mentioned a whole series of horizons, and these are the dates, 2030, 2040, that sound well and are often given as horizons of the strategy. But in reality, the actual date must be calculated in relation to the amortisation period of the investments made in the concessions. In this regard, my research concluded that it would be better to target about twenty-five years, that is, to fall to 2042 than to 2040. But not wishing to propose a date that would have seemed somewhat strange, I think that the 2050 horizon would solve the case of concessions that have begun recently and for which investments should not be destabilised, with the possible risk of unconstitutionality if the date of 2040 was maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u433	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u434	The aim of this amendment is to set the deadline for the renewal of the concessions which will expire in the coming years to 2050 and not 2040 in order, on the one hand, to be in line with the deadline set by France for achieving carbon neutrality, and, on the other hand, not to confuse urgency and haste, and to give both the territories, affected in terms of tax revenue and employment, and the operators, who need time to prepare, in particular, the post-mine work, the time needed to prepare themselves for this deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u435	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u436	Some additional information is that such a measure will have serious economic consequences. Operating companies will be forced to abandon their investments earlier than expected, with all the consequences for local employment and tax revenues collected by local authorities – 20 million euros per year. For the Marne, the resources of the municipal and departmental mining levy amount to €1.8 million, to which should be added the direct jobs as well as the industrial activity related to this sector. Legally, the 2040 deadline raises some uncertainties as it undermines the acquired rights of concession holders. Finally, on an environmental level, oil produced in France avoids the emission of 100,000 tonnes of CO bound to transport, one tonne of locally produced oil emitting three times less CO than one tonne imported. Therefore – and this has been recalled – by depriving itself of national production, France will promote even more the import of foreign oil, of which we do not know the environmental and societal conditions of extraction, unlike that produced in France. That is why this amendment aims to extend the maximum renewal deadline for an oil concession to 2050.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u437	What is the opinion of the committee on these four identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u438	By postponing the deadline set out in paragraph 15 from 2040 to 2050, these amendments constitute a delaying measure to delay the application of the law. I recall, as I did in my introductory statement, that a large part of the valid concessions expire before 2040. The five concessions mentioned by the Minister of State expire shortly before or immediately before January 1, 2040. The choice of this deadline is symbolic, but it is justified: the opinion of the committee is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u439	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u440	Madam Member, I cannot allow you to say that we are touching on acquired rights, since we have been very keen not to fail in legal or constitutional terms. Even though I may be saddened by this, the acquired rights have been preserved. Whether we aim for 2040, 2050 or 2060, we can only see this: effort, organization and mobilization have been delayed for ages. Therefore, because of the urgency, and even given the complexity of the issue, the choice of 2040 seems reasonable enough for these companies – which are not always in monoactivity – to have time to adapt, diversify and seize the opportunities that will undoubtedly arise in the fields of energy efficiency and renewable energy. The Government is therefore opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u441	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u442	The Group of the European People's Party will vote against the same amendments: we do not want to lose ten more years. In addition, 2040 is a symbolic date, including in terms of consumption, since it is also at that time that the sale of thermal vehicles will end. It is therefore part of the coherence that some of you, ladies and gentlemen, were looking for earlier. In addition, some of the arguments are incorrect. The question of local government tax revenues, in particular, is well highlighted in the impact assessment: in the same way as for taxes and royalties, or for acquired rights, there will be no reversal. Existing wells that are operated under concessions will be operated until they are completed. The impact assessment also includes a part devoted to the evolution of charges, both for the State and for local authorities: we have not talked about this much today, but the bill also provides for the adoption, in financial laws, of arrangements to accompany these developments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u443	I have before me three amendments, Nos 36, 28 and 37, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 28 and 37 are identical. I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u444	While maintaining the 2040 deadline, it is a matter of giving manufacturers a reasonable period of ten years in order to enable them to meet their obligation to restore the sites concerned once the extraction has been completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u445	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u446	This is a practical amendment: site restoration requires a lot of investment and time. In the case of a company in the Aquitaine region, such an operation would result in the closure of 600 wells, 300 production sites, 6 depots and the abandonment of 700 kilometres of buried networks. A technical period should therefore be allowed for the rehabilitation of the sites. The deadline of 2040 would remain unchanged: we ask not to postpone it to 2050, but to allow time, after the end of production in 2040, to make the sites concerned safe, in accordance with the commitments made by the companies and with respect for the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u447	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u448	This is a withdrawal amendment which proposes an additional five years, instead of the ten years in Amendment No 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u449	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u450	First of all, these three amendments do not seem to me to be operational because it is not possible to restore a site as long as the operation continues. In this regard, the proposed wording leaves room for ambiguity. Then, during the hearings that we conducted prior to our work in the Chamber, we were told that the time to plug the wells was in itself relatively short: from one to three months is enough. It is true that if one includes within the period of restoration of the site the time necessary for nature to return to its original condition, that which it had thirty or forty years before, at the time when the concession was granted, then the process can actually take five years, ten years or more. But it should not be argued to extend the duration of concessions. Therefore, the committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u451	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u452	Your objective seems to us to be already satisfied by the existing legislative and regulatory framework which normally allows the explorer, as well as the operator, to continue operations after the work has been completed, and thus to restore the sites concerned after the corresponding mineral title has expired. In general, the operators plug the wells that have been shut down as they progress. At the end of the concession, therefore, much of the work has already been carried out. I therefore call on the authors of these amendments to withdraw them. Otherwise, the Government would give them an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u453	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u454	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] On this issue of deadlines, we hear surrealistic things: Mr.Aubert refers to 2050, because 2042 would be a strange year. It's like a column by Elizabeth Teissier on numberology!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u455	Nice shirt, Mr. Prud'homme!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u456	It's quite extraordinary. As for his colleague, who is talking about repairing environmental damage and restoring sites, I will remind him that environmental damage is irreversible. Under these conditions, unless I pretend that people who have extracted hydrocarbons for 30 years at a site will reinject them into the same basement, I do not see how it is possible to return to the original natural state. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If I understand that you are, because of the late hour, tired, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be a little serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u457	Let's be serious and get the shirt in the pants!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u458	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u459	The purpose of this amendment is to question the meaning of paragraph 16, which does not seem useful. Regardless of the substantive debate that we will have later – probably tomorrow, given the late hour – on the right of continuation, I do not understand the meaning of this, given the wording of the preceding paragraphs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u460	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u461	If I understand your comment, paragraph 16 has the merit of clearly recalling the rules applicable to the extension of an exclusive research permit: I am therefore against its deletion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u462	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u463	Madam Member, you are not wrong, but it is necessary that the text be perfectly understandable. Paragraph 16 must therefore be retained in order to clarify that licence extensions may still be granted. The Government is therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u464	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No. 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u465	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u466	Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor to support Amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u467	This amendment aims to enrich and give full scope to the Act of 13 July 2011 to prohibit the exploration and exploitation of liquid or gaseous hydrocarbon mines by hydraulic fracturing and to repeal exclusive research permits involving projects using this technique, in particular in light of the decision of 19 February 2014 of the Melun Administrative Court. Should it be adopted, this amendment would require the holder of an operating licence or the applicant for an extended operation to comply with the following principles of law: actori incumbit probatio – whoever claims to be the owner of a right must prove it – and – reus in excipiendo fit actor – whoever claims to be relieved of an obligation because he has performed it must establish that performance. For example, it would be up to the holder of an authorization to extend a research or operating permit to demonstrate that no use has been made of any technology that poses a danger to the environment. Here we fully assume a will to submit to the above-mentioned law of 13 July 2011, in a strict and definitive manner, all oil explorations and exploitations, the administration of which, of course, retains a task of monitoring the observance of the law, but the burden of proof therefore rests exclusively with the holder of the said exploration permit requesting a prolonged exploitation. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Such clarification would ensure the proper application of the law, meet expectations for administrative simplification and ensure the continuity of a healthy measure for the preservation of our environment and public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u468	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u469	The drafting of the amendment poses a problem: it is indeed at the time of the granting of the authorisation of the work, and not at the time of the granting of the exclusive research permit, that it is possible to know the techniques that will ultimately be used. It is therefore at this point that the administration assesses the danger of these techniques to the environment. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the commission would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u470	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u471	Madam Member, I share the concern that no technique is being used which would pose a danger to the environment: we therefore agree on this point. I would remind you, however, that pursuant to section L. 161 of the Mining Code, mining titles do not, as such, permit work to be carried out. Applications for research or exploitation are already subject to an environmental assessment accompanied by a hazard study. If the petitioner is unable to control the corresponding risks, the prefect must refuse the work. Therefore, I suggest that you withdraw this amendment: failing that, the Government would be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u472	Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u473	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u474	I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we complete the examination of Article 1, on which six amendments remain under discussion, before we adjourn the sitting. I have before me two amendments, Nos 200 and 14, which can be discussed jointly. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy, has the floor to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u475	The purpose of this amendment is to enable the administration to impose, where necessary, a specification on the issue, extension or extension of a mineral title for the exploration or exploitation of hydrocarbons. The aim is to strengthen the supervision of authorized exploration and exploitation activities following the entry into force of the Act and to minimize their impact on the local environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u476	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u477	At this stage of the debate, I would like to thank the Minister and the rapporteur, who, in response to my amendments, have repeatedly reiterated that there is no valid permit in our country for non-conventional hydrocarbons, which is enough for me to enjoy. This amendment proposes to clarify the specifications accompanying the mineral title. It is intended to include in this draft a provision contained in article 2 of the draft law adapting the mining code to environmental law, adopted on 25 January 2017 at first reading, under the previous legislature, by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u478	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 14?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u479	It is unfavorable because you are proposing, Mr Brun, to impose a specification automatically, while my amendment would make it mandatory only if the administration considers it necessary. Administrative procedures should not be unnecessarily complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u480	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments Nos. 200 and 14?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u481	They pursue the same objective, but the Government prefers the former, in my view, more efficient, and is therefore unfavourable to the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u482	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u483	I would like to welcome this progress, directly inspired by a provision in Jean-Paul Chanteguet's bill, but adapted to the circumstances of this text and to the specific nature of hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u484	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u485	I withdraw my amendment in favour of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u486	I have before me an amendment No 115, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 195. Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u487	This is a legal coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u488	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u489	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u490	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u491	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u492	I call Mr Bruno Duvergé to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u493	The activity devoted to the exploration and production of hydrocarbons in the Territory represents 1500 direct jobs and 4000 indirect jobs. Of course, the deadline of 2040 is long in time and the gradual cessation of activity must allow the territories to prepare for their conversion. Nevertheless, accompanying arrangements must be provided to assist the territories in the process of conversion and to guide them towards the growing sectors. It is therefore proposed to introduce ecological transition contracts, as defined in axis 8 of the climate plan, similar to those for the shutdown of coal-fired power plants by 2022. They would involve stakeholders – employees, local authorities, businesses, the state – in the search for optimal reclassification for employees, using and developing existing tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u494	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u495	The green transition contracts you refer to do not meet a precise definition – we will talk about them again. As the Minister of State has said, it does not seem desirable, for reasons of clarity and legibility of the law, to refer to it in the text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u496	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u497	Beyond the text, there is its application, and be sure that if the Government lacked creativity to conclude contracts with the territories so that the transition would be, socially and economically, progressive and beneficial to the greatest number of them, then, whatever the law, we could not implement it. So we share your concern. We are going to get to work very quickly, territory by territory. However, I do not think it is necessary to include such a reference in the text. What can be the transition contracts in 2020, 2030 and, a fortiori, 2040? Some flexibility should be maintained. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u498	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u499	Minister, it is a pity that this amendment is not accepted. I hear your argument and your intention to reassure the territories about their economic and social future, but, even if the ecological transition contract is not defined with precision today, the inclusion in the law that gives the territorial authorities the opportunity to approach the State in order to draw up, in due course, an ecological transition contract would have made it possible to reassure our territories and the employees who were worried about the brutal cessation of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u500	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u501	So it is at one five in the morning that I will support him, Mr President. This is an amendment which I have amended as a result of the discussions we have had on the subject in committee. It raises the question of the coherence between what we decide for ourselves and what France promotes in the rest of the world. Indeed, I believe it is necessary to put an end to the practice of double discourse, with, on the one hand, the display of ambitions and objectives in the field of climate and, on the other, the international promotion of French know-how in the field of hydrocarbon extraction activities. The amendment proposes to stop direct export aid in this sector of activity. It is a matter of launching a debate, stressing the need for not only political coherence but also ethical coherence: we do not have to advise other nations to do differently than we have decided for ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u502	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u503	Although I can share some of your intentions, Mrs Batho, the concept of "direct competition" used in the amendment seems to me to be legally unclear. In addition, before implementing such a measure, it would be necessary to study its impact in detail. That is why the committee would prefer the Assembly to adopt another amendment, which will be presented at a later stage: Amendment No. 145, which seeks to ask the Government for a specific report on this issue. Let me read it to you: "Within one year after the enactment of this Act, the Government shall submit to Parliament a report on the assistance of any kind from the State in support of the activities of hydrocarbon research and exploitation outside the territories defined by article L. 111-7. I think it will be much clearer after such a report is submitted. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u504	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u505	In an ideal world, Mrs Batho, such a provision would seem to us to be coherent and more effective. Unfortunately, in the current state of affairs, it seems a little utopian to me! Through this amendment, however, you set a direction, almost an injunction, which we will have to take care to follow. Some are rightly concerned about this: there would be a lack of consistency in putting an end to certain practices at home and in promoting them elsewhere. So you are right to raise the issue. Nevertheless, the rapporteur referred to another avenue. On the other hand, and that is why I have spoken of 'bricks', there are other ways to ensure this coherence: for example, the discussions that we are going to undertake in the context of the revision of the European emissions trading system or the diplomatic action we are taking in favour of a carbon price corridor, which would be a way of giving a competitive advantage to the low carbon economy and of organising the decline of fossil fuels. That being the case, fossil fuel subsidies, I could give you an exhaustive list of them! They are not limited to our territory. Globally, they amount to $500 billion; to amplify an energy model that costs us, in negative externalities, 5000 billion dollars, and when we cannot find 200 billion dollars to meet our Copenhagen commitments! The demonstration is a little simplistic, I agree with you, but it shows that we can put coherence in our policy and that the removal of a number of negative costs or externalities represents so much gain money, which could be spent on other priorities – but I stop this digression. At this stage, the Government is against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u506	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u507	We will present tomorrow the amendment to which the rapporteur referred. The evolution towards greater coherence will naturally take place. Progress has already been made in recent years, in particular the abolition of export subsidies for coal-fired power plants via COFACE, Compagnie française d'assurance pour le commerce étrangère. This will accelerate as a result of citizen pressure and disinvestment in fossil fuels. The report we are proposing will enable us to take stock of the various means of action, whether direct or indirect, available to the State. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Thank you, in any case, for the collective work that has been done this evening: many amendments have been accepted from various benches in this House. It's a pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u508	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u509	I would point out to the rapporteur with a smile that the word 'competition', which he does not think is appropriate in my amendment, is also included in Amendment No 145. It is a habit in parliamentary debates: when a serious question is raised, it is referred to a report. I do not misunderstand the need to take stock of everything that exists in the field of export support. The problem I raise is the credibility of the provisions that we are adopting, not the freedom of companies to sell their know-how and industrial activity. What matters to me through this amendment – I understand that it would not be accepted, but I would like it to be understood – is not only subsidies and export aid, but also political and diplomatic support. It seems to me necessary to put an end to a form of cynicism that we have known too much in the past. For example, while we were engaged in the preparation of COP21, the President of the Republic went to Alberta to boast the competence of French companies in oil sands mining. This must not be possible any more! In this area, there are a number of signals to be sent, without the need for a report or an inventory of the financial assistance that exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u510	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u511	The Group of the European People's Party supports this amendment. Perhaps it is utopian, minister, but there is a certain contradiction to say that this bill is a positive signal sent to the international community and to refuse to adopt a provision like this. I recall that when the law prohibiting the hydraulic fracture was passed, citizen movements seized it, particularly in Argentina, to try to counter Total. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I do not believe, Mr Orphelin, that this will be done in a natural way. I'm more pessimistic about it than you are. On the contrary, I think that implies political ambition and will. That is why we will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u512	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u513	I am saddened to see how little is done about all those who work in the companies concerned. The world, it is suggested, should eliminate any exploitation of hydrocarbons and, as a result, neither technology nor companies would be needed; and if they are French, they would no longer have the right to export. This is crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u514	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u515	Everyone agrees, as we have said this evening, to take action against global warming and CO emissions, but provided they do not penalise our companies and employees. Do you think that France, even if it has to set an example, is now able to drag all the countries of the planet behind it on these themes? It would be completely illusory to think so. This would even be presumptuous and therefore disrespectful of the people who work in these enterprises. In response to the question put to you earlier, Mr rapporteur, you said that we would be able to submit the report after one year. This shows very well that the impact studies are not exhaustive, and that the text should have been referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u516	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-03-O1002.u517	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion of the simplified procedure for the consideration of four bills authorizing the approval of international agreements and treaties; Further to the discussion of the bill ending research and exploitation of conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons with various energy and environmental provisions. The meeting is adjourned.
