ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u2	We are dealing with the examination of the appropriations for the Defence Mission (Report No. 273, Annexes 13 and 14; No 277, Volumes II, III, IV, V, VI and VII; No 275, Volume IV). The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes said that the budget is an arid science, that it is an accumulation of figures and numbers or a collection of technical adjustments whose springs no one understands. That's not what I think. The budget of the Ministry of Armed Forces, for me, is first of all a vision, a vision for the women and men who are fighting for our country, a vision for our future, for our technologies and for our innovation, a vision, finally, for our whole defence model. This vision is clear: in the face of threats, of dangers, of terrorism, France will not yield anything. It will intervene wherever its interests are threatened. It will maintain its full strategic autonomy and a complete and balanced military model. The finance bill for 2018 is the embodiment of this desire, shared by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, not to yield anything for the security of the French. It foresees a historic increase of 1.8 billion euros in the budget of the Ministry of Armed Forces. This unprecedented effort is the starting point for an exceptional rise in power, since every year, then, and until 2022, the budget of the Ministry of Armed Forces will increase by 1.7 billion euros per year, with the goal of devoting 2% of our GDP to defence by 2025. This budget has at least two great virtues: it responds to immediate needs and it prepares an ambitious future for our defence. He prepares us, first, to face threats. It takes into account the particularly high level of engagement of our armies and allows a considerable effort for the sustainability of our operations. This is an effort for the protection of equipment, to which this 2018 finance bill spends an additional 450 million euros compared to 2017. It is also a concrete effort to protect our forces with an envelope of EUR 200 million. Finally, he paid particular attention to the condition of the staff. Last week I presented my family plan, an ambitious, concrete and modern plan that meets the needs of the military and their families: 300 million euros will be spent on it over the next five years. This budget also prepares the future of our armies, our technologies and our ministry. The equipment used by our forces is sometimes highly tested or even aging. Renewing them has become an absolute necessity, both for the safety of our forces and for the success of our operations. The 2018 Finance Bill fully addresses this challenge by providing an additional €1.2 billion for equipment credits. Infrastructure expenditure, too, too, too often variable in adjusting previous budgets, will be considerably increased. Finally, this budget is an open door to innovation with a research and development budget of €4.7 billion. This effort is also directed towards cybersecurity and intelligence, because we know that the digital revolution is not only a source of exceptional opportunities but also a source of challenges that we need to address. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This budget is therefore a return-to-power budget. It meets the needs of the armies and prepares their future, a future that I want to be ambitious, innovative and autonomous; Europe, too. Of this future, we will have an opportunity to debate as part of the military programming bill that I will introduce to you in the first half of 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u4	Mr Cornut-Gentille, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Committee on Defence and Armed Forces, the Special Rapporteur, the rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday evening in the enlarged committee, the defence budget has already been amply shelled. So it seems to me more useful in this House to come back to a topic that has been central for several months. I want to talk about this target of 2% of GDP, which now seems to be shared unanimously, which could be welcomed. I think, however, that, despite appearances, the promotion of this theme has been a good misconception. During the presidential campaign, staffs and industrialists thought it clever to promote this symbolic figure in order to convince candidates to make an additional effort for our armies. Resuming this objective was to commit to a significant increase in the resources allocated to our armies, but it was also to forget a crucial point: after five years of external operations – OPEX – intensive and significant increase in the expenditure of Title 2, our armies need not only a strategy of the future, but also a short-term regeneration in the face of the wear and tear of materials and men. Of course, the 2% point to a laudable ambition, but they do not know the urgency of the situation. In good faith, the executive and the majority can engage significantly but without becoming aware of the current difficulties. By caricaturing barely, it is the 2% as well as the energy transition: we talk about it a lot, because the idea pleases, but, in practice, we carefully leave it to the successors to act. Far from being a lever, the 2% is rather a decoy, without necessarily being willing to deceive. They divert the attention of the urgent subjects to project themselves into the desirable, even though this desirable has no chance of coming if we ignore the reality of today. It is up to you, Madam Minister, to deal with the consequences of this situation. The exercise is difficult, if not perilous, so much optimism is now to be put on the table and the reproach is easily cast on those who merely recall some factual facts. To succeed, it seems to me that you have only one narrow path: to divert the sights of 2025 to focus our debates and efforts on those moments of truth that are before us – not in several months or years, but in the days and weeks that come. These moments of truth will tell whether the acts are in line with intentions and whether the planned fiscal trajectory is credible or chimera. In a nutshell, we will soon know if the future military programming law – LPM – will be based on a solid foundation or if it will only be a "com' plan". The first moment of truth is tonight. Of course, the €1.8 billion increase was welcomed on all banks, but last Thursday, Madam Minister, you were not able to raise questions on several decisive points, such as the sustainability of inter-ministerial solidarity on the additional costs associated with OPEX, despite an increased provision, or the acceleration of programmes to fill our capacity gaps. The second moment of truth will come at the time of the final adoption of the public finance programming bill for the years 2018 to 2022, with section 14 capping the remainder to be paid. Last Thursday, Madam Minister, you acknowledged that strict application of this section would be a serious problem for the defence. Where are we? What does Minister Darmanin say? I add, by leaving my role as an opponent: can we help you? The third moment of truth will take place at the time of the review of the amending finance bill, which will come to the end of the 2017 management. We will then know if your department will be charged the remainder of the incremental costs associated with the OPEX and the amounts still frozen. We will also know whether it will have to bear a carry-over of charges of approximately EUR 3.5 billion. On this last point, I would like to point out to my colleagues in the majority that a postponement of the 2017 arrears to the 2018 financial year, up to 10% of the budget, amounts to a profound distortion of the beautiful artifice – pardon, the beautiful building that we are about to vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u6	[[Smile]] Nice lapsus!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, in the economic field, the success or failure of government policy can only be appreciated in two or three years' time. In the field of defence, things are very different. The time of truth is now: we will know before the end of the year whether, in fact, armies are a priority. Minister, in August 2011, in South Korea, the title of 100-metre world champion was promised to Jamaican Usain Bolt. You are now in the athlete's position in the start-blocks. You're targeting the finish line, the famous 2% of 2025. I do not wish you to know Bolt's misadventure, disqualified after a false departure. Also, don't be afraid to step up resolutely to the niche, because the credibility of our defence effort is now at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u8	Mr Olivier Gaillard, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, France's defence strategy consists of a high level of commitment, within a national framework or within alliances or coalitions, to deal with threats against national territory, smuggling of migrants and terrorist attacks in the Sahel and the Levant. These are often joint operations: military operations as such are complemented by upstream interventions for training, provision of resources or support. Our army remains one of the major explanations for France's continued good and influential place in the European Union, but also in the concert of 193 states recognized by the United Nations and which influence the course of world history. However, on the ground, our defence has been in tension for several years. Operational contracts in the 2013 White Paper on Defence and National Security were overtaken by the intensity of the commitment. At the end of the 2017 financial year and in the defence budget for 2018, it seemed fundamental to reconnect with greater budgetary sincerity. Over time, this ethical requirement could clearly have been misled. It was essential to react to ensure the sustainability of our commitments. Thus, the upsurge initiated by the 2018 budget has been unprecedented since the end of the cold war: the "Defence" mission receives 1.8 billion euros in additional payment appropriations, reaching 34.2 billion euros in 2018. This trend will continue until 2022 thanks to an increase of €1.7 billion each year. The major challenge we face is to respond to operational challenges in a context marked by the rise of the ground-based task force. In an increasingly unstable and uncertain strategic environment, it is a matter of fulfilling our defence ambitions. But this major challenge must best be linked to a global budgetary reality. The defence budget for 2018 inherits a heavy liability, taking into account considerable underestimations and carry forwards of expenses. In response, the State expressed a strong will to clean up the budgetary bases and to accompany a sustained defence effort. A budget cannot solve everything at once, over a single fiscal year. However, there is a need to respond to immediate needs, to make appropriate choices and to make continued efforts to prepare for the future. The defence budget line for 2018 is that one. Budgetary efforts result in significant increases in funding in areas as crucial as each other: programmed maintenance of equipment, protection of the soldier, equipment, defence infrastructure closely linked to weapons programmes, protection of bases and the military condition of life. In these areas, the needs are very strong and urgent. The appropriations for the two programmes which are the subject of my special report are increasing. On programme 178, which covers the training and operational commitment of forces and the maintenance of equipment in operational condition, commitment authorisations amount to EUR 8.8 billion, an increase of 5.3% compared to the Finance Act for 2017. For example, the programmed maintenance of equipment, abounding by €450 million, is increasing by 13%, which will allow new equipment to rise. On programme 212, which brings together the shared leadership and support functions for the Ministry of Defence – human resources, finance, real estate, housing, social action, information systems, procurement, among others – commitment authorisations amount to € 23.25 billion, an increase of 4.8% compared to the 2017 Finance Act. The increase in the number of staff, which will continue over the next five years, requires an increase in intelligence and counter-terrorism capabilities in the area of cyberprotection. There is also a significant increase in funding for infrastructure and real estate, over 23% compared to the 2017 Finance Act. It is divided into major infrastructure programmes linked to weapons programmes such as Barracuda, MRTT – multi-role tanker transport, multi-role air and transport refuelling aircraft – and Scorpion, nuclear deterrence, as well as investment operations justified by the upsurge of the ground task force and increased security and protection needs. In the context of a high level of commitment and difficulties of retention, the budget cannot be reduced to a disembodied financial document, which would be disinterested in the social and family realities of women and men in defence. That is why I would like to highlight the adoption of the family plan that you are presenting, Minister. With EUR 300 million over five years, it provides for the renovation of housing, the creation of crèche places and the communication of transfer orders further upstream of the assignment. We note this: the defence budget for 2018 focuses on short-term issues – maintaining operational conditions, living conditions for staff – but also on preparing for the future by developing our intelligence capabilities and renewing our nuclear deterrence. All this is in line with the logic of the future law of military programming that strengthens the links between deterrence, prevention, protection, intervention, knowledge and anticipation. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] This budget is solid and balanced, between strengthening budgetary sincerity and strengthening of resources. It makes a return to the path of honour by responding, through strenuous efforts, to priority and future issues. These efforts are committed to us; They will strengthen our country, both at national and international level, and allow France to be a driving force within the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, many speakers need to speak. I therefore invite you to strictly observe your speaking time. Mr Didier Quentin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already been well informed about the budget that the Government is proposing for our armies in 2018. I will therefore confine myself to a few remarks that will shed light on a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the links between diplomacy and defence are close, without having to refer to Clausewitz... I welcome the fact that the fiscal path is finally firmly upwards. The path to 2% of GDP, or EUR 50 billion in 2025, is indeed an imperative of credibility in military matters, but also for our external action. The announced effort should make it possible to fill in wear and tear and sometimes worrying gaps. An increase of EUR 1.7 billion per year may not even be sufficient, in the context of the renewal of nuclear deterrence. In this regard, it will be useful to have greater visibility on the scale of this renewal effort over the next few years. I hope that the debate on the military programming law will allow us to have an open exchange on this. Like my colleague François Cornut-Gentille, I have some reservations about the reality of the posted effort of 1.8 billion euros for 2018, given the considerable carry-over of charges caused by the cancellations of appropriations made in 2017, which it has not always been possible to obtain a certain amount. I hope that the budgetary sincerity effort put forward by the Government with the gradual rebudgeting of the additional costs associated with external operations will go hand in hand with a great deal of rigour in the implementation, so that the appropriations that we will vote will actually be those available to our armies. I come back to the budget opinion I drafted for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I have devoted most of to the issues of military cooperation, which are now essential for our defence. If the strategic review of defence and national security reaffirmed France's ambition of strategic autonomy, that does not mean that we have to do everything on our own. This is no longer possible today, and the need for cooperation will be even stronger in the future, especially since in diplomatic matters it is desirable for us to engage in strategic partnerships with countries that share our values and interests. The question is who to cooperate with, how and why. Parliament seems to me to have to exercise control over the content of France's military partnerships, which are sometimes very engaging for very long periods, especially when arms cooperation is involved. In this spirit, let me highlight a few points that I believe require particular vigilance. All military personnel welcome the partnership with the United States by saying that it has achieved unprecedented levels of confidence, particularly in the joint effort to combat terrorism. Too much dependence on the United States could, however, be of concern, particularly for intelligence, when our interests are not always convergent. We must therefore consider as a priority the strengthening of our autonomy in this area. It is about the independence of our diplomacy: let us remember Jacques Chirac and Dominique de Villepin's brilliant speech at the UN Security Council. However, our determination to fill Europe's capacity gaps in order to alleviate its dependence on the United States should not lead us to throw ourselves into joint industrial projects that our defence might lose out. In this respect, I would like to warn against the risk of unequal industrial arrangements with Germany in a context where our investment capacities will diverge and where our objectives will remain different. I therefore call on the Minister to explain to us the Government's strategy on this essential point. On the plentiful question of the defence of Europe, I call for a pragmatic approach: we can make progress on the joint financing of military research and capabilities through the European Defence Fund which has just been set up; We can no doubt better coordinate and share the crisis management effort, especially in the Sahel – all the progress in this area will be welcome – but, for the rest, the main challenge in the next few years, in the context of Brexit, will be to manage to tie our British friends to the defence of Europe, because they still have the first defence budget and are currently our closest partners. We must therefore make this partnership a reality through concrete initiatives. I will conclude this brief overview by referring to our partners in the wider world, in particular India, Japan and Australia. We may tend to neglect these partnerships a little, especially if we are focused on the terrorist threat, but I stress the urgent need to strengthen our presence on the oceans, given that we have a huge exclusive economic zone, which is becoming the first in the world with more than 13 million square kilometres and of which we are unable to provide protection. Essential stakes are played on and under the sea. It is no coincidence that China is significantly modernizing its war navy: in four years, the Chinese have built as many ships as our entire national navy has. It is therefore essential to strengthen our capabilities and partnerships in the Asia-Pacific maritime space and beyond, on the three major oceans, since we are the only ones present on the three seas. Pending the debate, I consider, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that this budget is in the right direction, but progress reports will be indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u12	Mrs Frédérique Lardet, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and pleasure to present to you this evening the appropriations for the 144 program of the Defence Mission, entitled "Environment and foresight of defence policy". This programme is very ambitious because it has the dual objective of enlightening the present and preparing for the future. However, its budgetary weight remains modest in terms of the overall defence budget, since the appropriations entered in the 2018 Finance Bill for this programme are €1.4 billion. In this transitional budget between two legislatures and two laws of military programming, the balances have been maintained and the momentum is continuing. Program appropriations showed a very slight upward change of 4.5% in payment appropriations and a downward change of 5.8% in commitment authorities. However, I believe that this budget is already – albeit timidly – in line with the 2% of GDP that will have to be achieved in order to maintain our defence at the best European and global level. The increase mainly benefits the intelligence services, whose action sheds light on our present situation. In particular, it will enable them to carry out the real estate operations necessary to accommodate their ever-increasing staff. The core of the programme remains technological foresight, with upstream studies at its centre. Despite a slight decrease in appropriations in 2018, the trajectory set in the previous legislature is being respected and the annual average of appropriations for upstream studies will have been 730 million euros over the last five years. As the strategic review points out, upstream studies, which alone account for half of the program's resources, are the cornerstone of the future of our forces' equipment, hence their operational effectiveness, and that of our defence industries. However, I am not afraid to say that the current effort is very insufficient and, in the long run, it will be necessary to spend at least EUR 1 billion on upstream studies, which should be confirmed by the future programming law. Today we are facing a technological challenge that we have an obligation to meet. Tomorrow's equipment will have to be able to integrate developments in artificial intelligence, digitisation, big data processing, robotics and nanotechnology – this inventory could continue for a long time. There is an urgent need to capture innovations from industry groups as well as from our SMEs and start-ups, in order to take advantage of their vitality by providing them with our support in return. It is imperative to review our procedures and methods to better capture and transform evolutions and ruptures. You have to go faster, be more flexible, more open, move forward and know how to step back, have imagination. Mechanisms implemented by the Directorate-General for Armaments – DGA – and by major groups and their professional organisations already exist. This is a good thing, but we must go further and multiply the circles in which representatives of the ministry and companies who are not identified in the industrial and technological defence base – BITD – can meet and therefore do not imagine the potential variations of their inventions. We must literally track the innovation of rupture and go, as the President of the Republic has mentioned, towards the creation of a DARPA – Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Agency for Advanced Defence Research Projects – European. This will not be achieved without significant financial resources, which our country is unlikely to be able to provide alone. The European Union is also at a turning point, as for the first time Community funding will be devoted to defence research. A preparatory action on defence research is being launched this year. It will last three years and will have a total budget of €90 million. Of course, EUR 30 million a year is little on a Europe-wide scale, but this action marks the end of a taboo and prefigures the European Defence Fund announced for 2020. These initiatives are to be welcomed and supported in order to achieve funding commensurate with the issues. Finally, if the amount of money spent on defence research is one thing, their use is another. An examination of the distribution of upstream study credits reveals surprising and regrettable disparities in some cases. It is true that today we are more in a situation of management of forced means than in abundance, but it must be noted that, for example, the land domain, traditionally less technological and more rustic, is not among the main targets of upstream studies. However, it is a sector that is modernising at high speed and whose technological evolution is accelerating. This development must continue and intensify, but adequate resources must be devoted to it. Collaborative combat, information processing, robotics, new materials, energies, optics: all these developments will transform the fight on the ground and we must prepare for it for the maintenance of the operational effectiveness of our forces and for their protection. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This, I repeat, will require that we do not fear the challenges and have audacity in all areas. Mark Twain said, "They didn't know it was impossible, so they did. I would like this sentence to become the motto of our defence search.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u14	Mr Claude de Ganay, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this finance bill is the first in this Parliament. In other words, it is time to translate campaign promises into action. You are presenting us with an increase of 1.8 billion euros, an increase which you call "historical" and which deserves to be welcomed. With this €32.4 billion, France is breaking with years of dark cuts in the defence budget. It's happy, but it'll just make it time. As a result, the resources allocated to real estate policy will increase by €404 million in 2018, or 30% of the additional payment appropriations. That's very good. Most of this increase – €333 million – will be devoted to the renovation of the army's real estate assets to improve soldiers' living conditions. This is even better, but it will only cover the most urgent needs. The estimate of the needs for renovation of the real estate assets of the armies at the age of six has indeed increased from 79 million euros in 2014 to almost 2.5 billion euros in 2017. This is what happens when you are forced to continually postpone renovations to deal with operational emergencies: small damage without gravity eventually accumulates, the situation becomes critical and the cost of work increases exponentially. Minister, I am sorry to say that you are going to pay very dearly for the short-term management of your predecessors. Some buildings fall into ruins. Fifteen years after the start of the Vivien plan, many accommodation or catering packages are still not up to standards. The €627 million Staff Condition – Condi-pers Action Plan, decided in 2014, will at best only address the most pressing emergencies, as 697 black spots have been identified by 2020. Your predecessors have left you with other bills to pay, such as the compensatory measures announced in 2016 and partially funded. New bonuses have been created for soldiers in domestic operations, but they have not been fully taken into account in the 2017 budget. In other words, it was a non-provisional cheque that your department had to self-finance by releasing resources from other, less-priority actions. In the 2018 finance bill, you were correcting the situation at the cost of several tens of millions of euros taken on this "historic" increase in the defence budget. In short, you are showing budgetary virtue. You're "sinning" – that's the fashionable expression – which means that long undervalued expenses are being revalued in this finance bill: you stop the cavalry, you stop lying about exceptional revenues, unemployment compensation expenses, and extra costs for external operations. It seems to be welcome, but will this result in concrete improvements for our soldiers and the safety of our fellow citizens? The provision for the additional costs of external operations, for example, will be increased by EUR 200 million per year. In 2018, it will increase from 450 million euros to 650 million euros, but we remain far from what these operations actually cost – almost 1.5 billion euros. The "syncerization" of this budget item is therefore all relative, leaving the sword of Damocles intact above the other programs of the "Defence" mission, not to mention the programs of other departments. I recall, Madam Minister, that the Government of which you are a member this summer issued a decree reducing the resources of programme 146, "Equipment of forces", by €850 million in the financing of the additional OPEX costs of the current year and of participation in a collective effort to reduce public expenditure. This decree is in flagrant violation of the letter and spirit of Article 4 of the Military Programming Act for the period 2014-2019, which specifically provided for the interdepartmental management of the additional costs of OPEX. We understand, therefore, the indignation of the Chief of the Armed Staff, Pierre de Villiers, whose courage and dedication I wish once again to salute. The answers you gave us in the enlarged committee have alleviated my concerns about the end of 2017. You seem confident in your department's ability to secure interdepartmental support for the remaining OPEX incremental costs, in accordance with section 4 of the MPA. I therefore welcome the budgetary effort that you are making to defend our country, but, given the uncertainty that still exists about the end of the 2017 management, which has seen the cost of the OPEX surge, and the vagueness of the financing of external operations and the dire needs for joint support and logistics, I will abstain from voting on the appropriations for the "Defence" mission. I will be vigilant as to the means that will actually be devoted to support in the next military programming law and in the next financial laws. And, as I did in my report for an opinion, this year on the subject of conversion, I will make concrete proposals to improve the condition of staff working for defence. Given their commitment to all, civilian and military, this is a moral duty that I will do my best.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u16	Mr Thomas Gassilloud, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u17	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of being the draftsman of the army's appropriations and I have closely associated my colleague, Mr Sereine Mauborgne, Member of the Var, with my work, and I would like to thank her for her involvement. The army's budget does not appear as such in the largely joint budget nomenclature, but the National Defence Committee has always ensured a particular follow-up of each army, since each has a specific operating environment, culture and problems. As you know, the army has a central role in the interventions by ensuring the stabilization of the territories over the long term. It also bears most of the losses in combat. In the eyes of our soldiers, therefore, its budget represents more than an instrument of allocation of funds: it is a sign of the recognition of the Nation and of the attention we pay to their protection. In this respect, we can be proud of this budget, which marks a first step towards realizing the presidential commitment to increase the defence effort to 2% of GDP. Total expenditure on the army, including personnel and equipment, is 5.4% higher than in 2017, reaching €8.5 billion. This budget is therefore perfectly in line with the current military programming, reoriented after the attacks of 2015 to plan the re-launch of the army. This upsurge in power, initially, was mainly on the strength with, as an emblematic measure, the transition of the ground task force from 66000 to 77000 men. In 2016 and 2017, we were able to make the most of the pressure by recruiting approximately 17,500 military personnel per year, which was a real challenge. From now on, we need to take a second step in this upsurge: after mass recruitment, capacitive consolidation. The first step in this consolidation is an operational readiness effort. Due to the lack of financial resources and the lack of time available since Operation Sentinel, the level of preparation is still lower than the objectives. This is the case, for example, for the training of helicopter pilots: if the objective shared with our allies is 180 hours of flight per year, we were only 146 hours in 2015; the 2018 Finance Bill finances 174. The consolidation of our terrestrial capabilities also requires better armaments. This concerns not only the most well-known equipment, but also the small equipment, from bulletproof vests to automatic pistols, which have a particularly important place in the army. Because these equipments do not have the same technological intensity as a frigate or the same symbolic value as a fighter aircraft, these small programs too often serve as adjustment variables in the financial closure of the LPMs. The Army is the first to suffer and we will have to collectively ensure that this is no longer the case with the next LPM. The capacity-building of the army also requires a structuring program called "Scorpion". It aims to renew all of our mid-range tanks and network them into a collaborative combat posture. The 2013 LPM reduced volumes and postponed Scorpion's calendar, at the cost of keeping equipment in service today at a blast. Our current vehicles are indeed aging, like the VABs – armored front vehicles – which date back to 1976. To put things in context, I recall that 1976, for example, is the year of launch of the R14 – everyone remembers it. However, with our intense activity in OPEX, the old equipment that Scorpion had to renew will not hold as much as expected. Therefore, we have two options: either to modernize them to keep them a little more while waiting for their replacement by Scorpion, or to accelerate Scorpion. This second option is not so much more expensive than the first: modernising a VAB at the Ultima standard costs 1.4 million euros to earn ten years of suspension, and investing for thirty years by replacing it with its equivalent Scorpion costs 1.5 million. Above all, the current threats in our OPEX theatres call for better protection of our soldiers. In this respect, Scorpion's surplus value is considerable. The technical-financial analysis therefore pleads, in this case, for an acceleration of Scorpion. We can therefore welcome the fact that, in an enlarged committee, the Minister has expressed her support, in principle, for this idea for the next MPA. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The National Defence and Armed Forces Commission has issued an opinion in favour of the Army's appropriations in the 2018 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u18	Mr Jacques Marilossian, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u19	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the National Defence Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the strategic review of defence and national security in October 2017 allowed a realistic and comprehensive analysis of the international situation. Today, France is more threatened, more exposed in an uncertain and unstable strategic environment. In a multipolar, changing world, our forces are engaged in ever harder crises, faced with ever more armed adversaries. The strategic review has clearly defined the main axes that our country must pursue and which justify the necessary re-enforcement of our armies: to consolidate our strategic autonomy; maintain a complete and balanced military model over time; to have a strong European ambition; Last but not least, to maintain and prosper our defence industry. In this context, the national navy faces specific strategic challenges. The globalization of our national interests is unprecedented. The global economy has become totally dependent on maritime spaces – 90% of trade, 95% of intercontinental communications. If France has 4082 kilometres of land borders, its maritime borders can be estimated at more than 19,000 kilometres, of which only 5,800 kilometres are metropolitan coasts. France's sovereignty now extends over an exclusive economic zone of 11 million square kilometres. This maritime space, the second in the world, stirs the lusts because of its fisheries resources and its potential in hydrocarbons and mineral resources, with the famous polymetallic nodules. Sensitive maritime areas are increasing: the Strait of Ormuz, the Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb, the Gulf of Guinea, the Mozambique Canal, the China Sea, New Caledonia and the Pacific Ocean. We must face multipolar threats of all kinds: illegal and destructive fisheries, drug trafficking, denial of access and of course terrorism. Over the past 15 years, however, we have seen a steady decline in the number of personnel, equipment and maintenance resources devoted to the navy's missions. A lucid observation can be made: all buildings and staff are overactive, well beyond the operational contract established for them. The worrisome age of many ships endangers crews, threatens missions and increases maintenance costs. Capacity deficiencies weaken our operations, threatening security and protection, and limiting the scope for strategic interventions. Our exclusive economic zone and our overseas territories are experiencing a worrying deficit of presence and protection. The major technical shutdown of the Charles-de-Gaulle aircraft carrier represents an unavailability of nearly two years and thus results in a strong limitation of our strategic and, above all, diplomatic capacity. The operability is to be improved, the presence of the buildings at sea being only 110 days. We also retain annualized budget management methods, binding contracting methods for our industries – often single contract, package – without distinguishing prototype and serial production. These practices are often dangerous for our companies: they not only increase structural costs and risks, but they weaken their investment and innovation capacity and place them in a difficult position in international competition. In this context of downsizing, the ageing of equipment and the limitation of the means of intervention, the national navy has managed to maintain its rank despite everything, ensuring a total commitment to the missions entrusted to it. His participation in many international missions has been unanimously welcomed and his daily interventions for the protection of our territory and our citizens deserve the admiration of all. Under these circumstances, the Navy budget, in the 2018 Finance Bill, is an emblematic and pivotal budget for the National Navy for all programs 146,178 and 212. As a first step, it is part of the continuity of previous exercises, in the trajectory of the military programming law and its 2015 update. This explains the main equipment order and delivery programs for 2018 – helicopters, Rafale aircraft, frigates, missiles, patrollers, submarines, etc. In a second phase, this budget has a strong regeneration and a strong rise in the strength of our armies. This effort is mainly reflected in a significant increase in the budget for the maintenance of operational conditions: EUR 512 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 237 million in payment appropriations. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Yes, Budget 2018 begins the necessary recovery recommended by the Strategic Review of Defence and National Security. This upsurge will have to find its fullness in the law of military programming. The conclusion is therefore obvious: favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u20	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Chairman of the Committee on National Defence, Mrs and gentlemen the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the effort made in the draft finance bill for 2018 is notable, even if an important part is only the budgetary translation of decisions taken in recent years or will finance the additional costs of the OPEX, which was previously taken over interdepartmentally. But, Madam Minister, the success of the 2018 fiscal year will depend on the conditions for the release of 2017. Let me, in this respect, wait for the hopeful heart to thaw the 700 million euros still blocked. We are all counting on you, because we know your determination to get Bercy to give in; You confirmed it to us last week in an enlarged committee. Despite the announcement effects, the situation remains tense. Allow me to express my concern about the future of our air force. Of course, during 2018, it is expected to receive a number of equipment essential to maintaining our capabilities – I am thinking of the first MRTT Phoenix supplyer in particular. But what was not my dismay when I read the documents attached to the finance bill! It is coldly written that the "high level of engagement" of the Air Force "causes... skill losses in the know-how not used in current operations" and that "the organic deficit will continue to grow". In short, the Government acknowledges the difficulties, but does not appear to be prepared to make the necessary effort to reverse the trend. I know that this is not your point of view, Madam Minister, but the honesty that is reflected in this is disconcerting. I will focus my speech here on three topics that I believe are of priority importance. The first concerns human resources: we have undoubtedly gone too far collectively in reducing the means of the air force. While the downsizing has been brutal for all armies, the Air Force has supported almost 50% of the deflations. This pressure on the workforce is all the more severe as recruitment needs increase due to the emergence of new specialties or the entry into service of new equipment. I am thinking of the rise of the cyber, the arming of drones, the delivery of MRTTs or light surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft. The second point concerns abilities: I will mention here only a few points that I believe deserve the most intense attention, and first of all the refuellers. You know, minister, we don't have enough. This is all the more true since our C-135s are more than fifty years old – they have been delivered from the time of General de Gaulle! Without refuelling, a combat aircraft or helicopter remains grounded and we are, in this matter, dependent on our allies. In this context, it is essential to accelerate the delivery program and increase the aircraft target, while the 12 MRTTs are intended to replace 19 aircraft. For more than twenty years, we have denounced the too small number of laser designation pods. The Talios are coming, as you reminded us in the enlarged committee, but, let us not be mistaken, Madam Minister: the Talios will only equip the Rafales, while the Mirage 2000 Ds continue to operate with the pods of old generations, which you have told us they have limited performance and are therefore no longer adapted to the demands of modern theatres of operations. Shouldn't we increase the target of the Talios and plan to equip the Mirage 2000 D? I'm convinced of that. Finally, Madam Minister, concerning the order for a Caracal to replace one of the two destroyed in operation, I have tabled an amendment that will provide you with an opportunity to clarify your intentions on this matter. This aircraft is fundamental to the conduct of our special forces' operations in the Sahel. You said earlier that France would not yield anything; Then don't give in, Madam Minister! Thirdly, I will refer to the current level of engagement, which contributes to the depletion of equipment and weighs on operational readiness. Aircraft fly four times more in operations than in metropolitan France and their operational potential is running out faster. In addition, pilot training and training are strongly affected by the level of engagement. All this weighs on operational readiness. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, on behalf of all of us, I wish to pay tribute to the airmen who everywhere protect France and the French and defend the values of the Nation. Recently, we celebrated the memory of the First World War Aces. Along with Charles Nungesser, René Fonck and so many others, Georges Guynemer's figure always inspires the airmen. Even today, "Confronting" is one of their currencies. Let us try to honor the memory of these knights of heaven by giving their successors the means to perpetuate their inheritance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u22	[[At 22:30, Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaced Mr. Sylvain Waserman in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u23	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u24	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Defence Committee, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to have been appointed draftsman of the appropriations entered in the PLF for force equipment and deterrence. I have conducted this work in close association with my colleagues Guillaume Gouffier-Cha and Christophe Lejeune, whom I thank very much. This finance bill for 2018 is in a way at a crossroads: the latest exercise of the LPM in progress, it provides for the continuation of the current weapons programs; The first five-year budget, it is also the first step in the strategy of rearmament that underpins the next LPM and of which the 2% of GDP represents the focus. As a result, capital spending is up significantly from 2017 allocations: keeping to budget program 146, it is increasing by 35% in commitment authorities. This increase is even more marked if we extend the analysis to the financial aggregate "Equipment" as a whole: from this point of view the budget for 2018 exceeds the objectives of the LPM by 800 million euros. This will make it possible to compensate for the regulatory credit movements made in 2017, which are therefore no longer necessary to return to. It will also fund commitments announced in defence counsel on April 6, 2016 but not yet funded. The PLF for 2018 funds an ambitious force equipment plan. Without going through a somewhat tedious enumeration here, the most emblematic deliveries are: a MUSIS satellite, two A400M, eight Cayman helicopters, five Tigers, 8,000 assault rifles, three Rafale and the first three Griffon vehicles of the Scorpion program. As far as orders are concerned, I could mention three MRTT refuelling and transport aircraft, a Barracuda-class submarine, the renovation of fifty Leclerc tanks, fifty-five Mirage 2000D and three Atlantic 2 maritime patrol aircraft, as well as twenty Griffon and 8,000 new assault rifles. This is how our rearmament effort begins in 2018. I think anyone in good faith can greet him. However, it is up to us to ensure that the displayed effort is realized and that its scope is not limited by negative base effects. This implies, on the one hand, that the carry-over of the Ministry's expenses remains under control and, on the other hand, that reserves, freezes and other "surfreezes" do not affect the proper implementation of this budget. It is reasonable to assume that this year, in terms of interdepartmental solidarity, the armies have already paid. However, EUR 700 million of freezes remain to be lifted. You can therefore count, Madam Minister, on our full support for your efforts to obtain the cancellation of these gels. It is only under these conditions that the effort planned by the next PLF will be real and 2018 will provide a sincere and solid basis for the next LPM. Two per cent is certainly a considerable effort, but it is not an inexhaustible manna. But the needs are great; The efforts that have been delayed for a long time are only heavier. Too long, with regard to the arming of our forces, we have procrastinated according to Oscar Wilde's adage, who recommends that we never put back what we can do the next day! That is why, as the minister told us without any misconceptions as soon as she took office, even with a budget mobilising 2% of GDP, if we want to speed up the renewal of our equipment, we must not exclude "innovative financing". My colleagues and I have therefore studied how far it would not be unreasonable to go in this respect. Let us remember: in 2015, the ministry imagined selling A400M and multi-mission frigates, FREMMs, to so-called "project" companies, to become tenants. It is interesting to analyse the experience of our British allies, since they have gone the farthest in this field. But they're coming back today. It therefore seems prudent to exclude public-private partnerships and other financial innovations for operational equipment and investments for which the needs of the armed forces are not clearly foreseeable. They can have real added value only in the environment and the support of forces, in particular in optimising the maintenance of operational conditions and the search for third-party users. It is to be considered on a case-by-case basis, without favourable or unfavourable prejudices. The minister announced in an expanded commission that, for the next military programming law, the riders envisaged in 2015 would not be returned, and I can only congratulate myself on that. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The 2018 Finance Bill provides a firm and credible basis. He therefore received a favourable opinion from the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u25	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Defence Committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention in the enlarged committee concerned the requirement to be part of a nuclear disarmament policy. For the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, it is high time that France ratified the international treaty for the prohibition of nuclear weapons, adopted on 7 July by 122 countries at the initiative of the United Nations. France must invest in the international arena by deploying a new foreign and security policy in the service of peace and disarmament. Peace must be the first of our visions, especially since the French independent nuclear force represents an expenditure of 4 billion euros, an increase of 4.5% in 2018, i.e. 10% of the non-pension defence budget, 21.9% of the equipment appropriations. In your answer you kicked in. "We may wish for a ban," you said, "but it does not seem to me to take into account the reality of our current strategic environment. We see every day the threat posed by North Korea, an actor in nuclear proliferation. You remind me of General Colin Powell, the U.S. Chief of Staff who said after the fall of the Soviet Union that he was running out of demons and had to settle for Castro and Kim Il Sung. Your statement is part of NATO's offensive and aggressive stance. It is worrying that it paves the way for the trivialization of the use of nuclear weapons and the revival of the arms race in this field. Let us bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, the words of Albert Camus in the aftermath of Hiroshima: "Mechanical civilization has just reached its last degree of savagery. » Together with NATO, the United States controls Member States' defence policies. They maintain a military presence on European territory, which has been out of place since the end of the cold war. NATO puts all European defence budgets to the advantage of the Anglo-American military-industrial complex. Since the end of the cold war, the defence budgets of NATO countries would be sufficient to ensure the security of each country if they were not captured for the benefit of the oversized weapons programmes imposed by the United States. NATO's appeal for preventive war strategies, for the use of tactical nuclear weapons and for the establishment of an anti-missile shield in Europe makes it a factor of insecurity and danger to peace in the world. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The principles of an independent and progressive national defence imply that our country must take the decision to leave NATO and call for the dismantling of this organization, i.e., to leave both the North Atlantic Treaty and the integrated military command. Such a political decision would produce a saving shock that would open the debate on the implementation of a European and Mediterranean defence policy based on peace, collective security, cooperation and independence of each people in liaison with the United Nations. On July 6, the Minister before the Defence Committee, you said that you wanted to "engage in a profound transformation aimed at finding innovative ways of financing to speed up the renewal of equipment." Not knowing how to get out of the austerity and financial rigor program, you are actually preparing to set up military equipment assemblage companies. These "Kiloutou of Armaments" would buy new or existing equipment in the forces and then rent it to the forces. We oppose this transformation of equipment procurement systems and its impact on the maintenance of operational conditions. Weapons are not commodities like any other: they must be the responsibility of the state, not the merchants of the temple.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u27	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u28	One example is the MCO of our aeronautical defence equipment. As we know, these are particularly solicited by our external operations. They therefore require the reinforcement of both our industrial maintenance tools, namely the aeronautics industrial workshops, AIA, as well as the status and working conditions of state workers. It is a matter of ensuring technical mastery and security guaranteeing our national independence and the protection of our troops, which cannot be assured by the montages today advocated by the so liberal Court of Auditors. We reaffirm the requirement for a departmental budget capable of fully ensuring the MCO of our equipment, including aeronautical equipment. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] For MEPs in the GDR Group, these three points – nuclear disarmament, exit from NATO, control of our equipment – are among many reasons to vote against this draft defence budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u29	The next speaker is Mr Didier Baichère, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u30	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome, on behalf of the Republic on the move, the dedication of our armies in a context of very high levels of solicitation. This obliges the Nation to our soldiers, their families, and more broadly to all the women and men who are involved in the defence of France. The 2018 defence budget that the President of the Republic wants and that you are presenting, Madam Minister, is therefore a budget of pride. It does justice to the exceptional commitment of our armies and meets the requirement to maintain and strengthen the strategic singularity of France. This budget is part of a vision of France's sovereignty. It is also the mark of a France that is doubly responsible for Europe, with respect for common budgetary rules and with the impetus given to Europe's security and defence. In line with this national and European ambition, you are presenting, Madam Minister, a recovery budget with a historic increase of €1.8 billion, which is credible in committing the trajectory that must lead the defence budget to 2% of GDP by 2025. It is necessary to go to the field, to the barracks and more broadly to meet all the players in the defence. Understanding and analysing is the role of the National Assembly, and it is the mission that the rapporteurs of the Defence Committee have assigned to understand the issues at stake in our national defence. From their work, I have three strategic axes for the defence budget for 2018. I am referring to the urgent priority of improving the living conditions of the military and their families, the decisive impact of equipment and investments, whether we are talking about the tactical watch of the Félin programme or about heavier infrastructure, such as the Barracuda-type nuclear attack submarines, and our cyber defence strategy. These axes will be the cornerstone of the future military programming law 2019-2025. Needless to say, there is no army without soldiers, that is, without recruitment or loyalty. In parallel with the continuation of the plan to improve the condition of military personnel and of a large recruitment plan with a positive net balance of 500 staff, which has not happened in ten years, you are launching, Madam Minister, the family plan, with 300 million euros of new appropriations over five years, with a large part of the actions implemented since 2018. It's a pride as much as a necessity. The "Equipment" budget increases by 1.5 billion euros and will trigger a "qualitative recovery", to use General Bosser's formula, with first deliveries of equipment as early as 2018 under the Scorpion programme for example. The 2018 budget is also preparing for the future, with €4.7 billion spent on research and development, including €720 million for upstream studies. Our small and medium-sized enterprises, like our mid-sized defence companies, keep reminding us: it is crucial to finance demonstrators in order to make possible technological breaks and to open up tomorrow's channels. With regard to the third axis, cyber defence, the 2018 budget provides for the creation of 400 posts, particularly in the area of intelligence. As early as 2019, 2600 digital fighters, supported by 4400 specialized reservists, will be able to be aligned on this new front. We are therefore moving from a defensive posture to a clearly offensive one. You will have understood that, ladies and gentlemen, defence is much more than the army: it is a whole part of our society at the same time as a key industrial sector. Indeed, there is no army without an industrial defence industry on national soil. If the army firmly defines and controls the defence strategy, the industrialists act to anticipate future technologies and appropriate skills. Defence also brings together different professions, i.e. it is a crucible for many young people. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the issue of knowledge of our industrial base and the maintenance of skills, such as talents, in the defence industries. It could provide us with an opportunity to experiment with vocational integration schemes, in connection with the policy of upgrading apprenticeship and vocational education, which the President of the Republic and the Government both wish. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Minister, the defence budget for 2018 that we are looking at maintains, and above all strengthens our strategic autonomy as our full military model. The Republic on the move will therefore vote unreservedly in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u31	The next speaker is Mr Charles de la Verpillière, for the Group of the Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Defence Committee, Madam and gentlemen the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, two very different events, namely the resignation last July of General Pierre de Villiers...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u33	Again?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u34	... and the strategic review of defence and national security in October highlighted the wear and tear of our army after six years of intensive external and internal operations. This wear and tear is marked in various ways: fatigue of the military, fatigue of the families, wear and tear of the equipment, decrease of the time spent on training and training, delay in the renewal or modernization of the equipment. In this worrying context, the announcement of a defence budget of €1.8 billion in 2018 was welcomed, as was the stated objective of increasing the defence effort to 2% of GDP by 2025, i.e. – still – three years after the end of this five-year period. Similarly, the plan to support families and improve the living conditions of members of the military, 2018-2022, which you presented, Madam Minister, contains useful proposals, some of which were included in an information report on the social protection of the military that we had tabled, Ms.Geneviève Gosselin-Fleury and myself, under the previous legislature. In view of these reasons for indulgence, Members of the Republican Group have doubts and concerns that you have not dispelled, Madam Minister, either in committee or in public session, with the speech you have just given. They relate primarily to the implementation of the 2017 budget. You have in fact cancelled 850 million euros of the appropriations entered in it: are you sure that this will not affect our operational capabilities? It should be recalled that this harmful decision caused the departure of General de Villiers. Moreover, 700 million euros of appropriations entered in the 2017 budget remain frozen. In the absence of your colleague Mr Darmanin, can you tell us when they will be released?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u35	[[Smile]] Oh there, it's like the cannon of Fernand Raynaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u36	Finally, the additional cost of external and domestic operations is expected to be EUR 1.5 billion in 2017, compared to only EUR 450 million. Will the difference be well covered by other departments, as in previous years? As for the 2018 budget, it also raises questions to which you have not answered any more, to the point that we are justified in asking you whether the increase of 1.8 billion euros of which you glorify is not, in fact, a trompe l'oeil.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u37	She probably is.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u38	We still do not know how much the carry-over of previous years will amount, which will certainly be on the increase: we did not get any answers to our questions about the staggered or delayed expenditure due to the cancellation of the €850 million of appropriations entered for the 2017 financial year that I have already mentioned and which, in 2018, will reduce our capacity all the more. Minister, recognize that this amputation will reduce little to the actual increase in this budget for 2018. Similarly, the €650 million increase in the provision for the financing of OPEX, compared with €450 million previously, is not a disguised way of gradually abolishing the financing of these operations through the solidarity of the other ministries? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] National representation has the right, during this budgetary debate, to finally obtain precise answers, which will determine the meaning of our vote. These answers, the men and women who serve in our armies, whose commitment, professionalism, courage and spirit of sacrifice force our admiration, also await them. On behalf of the Members of the Republican Group, I would like to pay their tribute.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u39	Mr Fabien Lainé, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u40	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Defence Committee, Madam and the rapporteurs, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement would like first of all to stress the efforts made by the Government to propose a budget commensurate with the high defence ambitions set out by the President of the Republic. The appropriations entered under the "Defence" mission seem to us to be a source of hope: hope for consolidation of the achievements, reconstruction of our capabilities and hope for the rebirth of an ambition for France in Europe and in the world. The general increase in the defence budget for 2018, as well as the presidential target of 2% of GDP spent on defence in 2025 – the first fruits of which are included in this finance bill – finally allow us to turn the page of a serious attrition of the numbers of our armies as well as of a slow collapse of their equipment. Whether it is the consolidation of personnel, investment in equipment or a healthy commitment to improving the living conditions of our soldiers, this budget presents significant progress, which we welcome. Marshal Lyautey was indignant at the time that some officers had more regard for their horses than for their men. As we made the defence budget our first adjustment variable, we had reached the point of no longer having regard for our men or for their mounts. A drastic cut in strength, a logic of hardiness pushed to the extreme: our soldiers have seen their duty of reserve repeatedly put to the test. We give our full support to the training and budget execution of a project that recruits, trains and supports the professional lives of our employees. It provides, on the one hand, the means to maintain the equipment in service in operational condition and, on the other hand, prepares for its replacement. Finally, it is accompanied by a €300 million plan to support the families of our soldiers and to improve their living conditions, thus compensating for the special hardships that do their honour and legitimize their place in the city. We are aware that the budget you are defending, Madam Minister, is a first step towards the 2% GDP target and towards the rehabilitation of the French army as the second free world army. We will therefore support this goodwill project while being particularly vigilant on several points, such as rationalizing the final cost of OPEX. The delicate balance to be struck between budgeting within the framework of the "Defence" mission's appropriations and ad hoc budgeting in the account of inter-ministerial solidarity deserves a reasoned debate. We will also be very vigilant about the Scorpion programme, which has a constant budgetary commitment. Its effective deployment cannot be delayed: it is imperative to avoid the costs of such a change. The same applies to the operational programming of the army, which, let us recall, bases its innovative organization on the "infovalued maneuver". If we also support the ambitions expressed regarding the place of the operational reserve in our armies, we would like to refine with you, Madam Minister, the reflection aimed at giving them the means to do so. Interdependence with the future universal national service is of course paramount, even if it is not sufficient. More generally, we will be paying particular attention, both in the context of the future military programming law and at the end of the implementation of this finance law for 2018, to the respect of the fiscal trajectory on which we collectively committed ourselves. We will be all the more vigilant in view of the fact that the planned budgetary effort to maintain our nuclear arsenal at technological level can only be made in compliance with our commitments to our conventional capabilities. Yet, Madam Minister, this vigilance, which could be confined to doubt, is only the reasonable counterpart of the hopes that we have and which I have mentioned at the beginning of my speech. We also share the view that a true Europe of defence is emerging. Let us not misunderstand: France must maintain its decision-making autonomy, and this requires a constant investment in its own military capabilities. But, thanks to its external operations in particular, it contributes to the security of the European Union and thus carries a burden which the solidarity of the Member States must allow to alleviate. Are our national budgets forced? Let us therefore gain in interoperability, harmonize the capacity needs of our armies to purchase similar military equipment cooperatively, strengthen our common industrial and technological base in order to produce others, feed the European Defence Fund and realize economies of industrial scale in order to radiate on the international market while reducing the cost of our equipment. Do our external political interests differ? Let our common planning become more effective. The implementation of a strengthened cooperation policy, the establishment of a permanent European headquarters or the activation of European inter-armed tactical groups are all ways of adapting, in practice, our common doctrines and needs. France turned its back on the European Defence Community in 1954? It will show tomorrow the way to European unity in defence. What more powerful cement than common security can be imagined for the unity of a society, even if it is European? [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Support for the presidential ambition in defence, driven by the hope that it will raise but be vigilant about its effective implementation, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote the appropriations of the "Defence" mission of the finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u41	Mr Olivier Becht spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u42	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Defence Committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget for 2018 which you are presenting to us today, Madam Minister, is particularly important since it is a question of the financial translation of the Government's defence priorities, whether it is, of course, the protection of the national territory and of our citizens, but also the safeguarding of our interests, our ability to intervene abroad, or the modernization of the armies and their equipment. We are all aware of this, it is a difficult mission. If, on the one hand, the budgetary context forces us to contain public spending, on the other hand, the context of growing threats – both inside and outside our borders – that we face must lead us to rapidly strengthen the resources of our armed forces. The Les Constructifs Group wishes to acknowledge the importance of the Government's financial effort over the next few years by increasing the army budget by almost €1.7 billion per year until 2022, with the objective of increasing the defence effort by 2025 to 2% of GDP. With regard to external operations, we would like to pay tribute to the thousands of women and men who, in order to protect themselves, risk their lives every day in the theatre of operations Shamal and Barkhane. However, we must ask ourselves, and therefore ask you, Minister, about the financing of these same external operations. Indeed, this draft budget foresees a significant increase in the provision entered under OPEX, which is increased to €650 million for 2018, an increase of almost 44% compared to the appropriations entered in 2017. This provision will then increase each year until 2020 by EUR 200 million, with the aim of exceeding the EUR 1 billion mark in order to reduce the contribution of other ministries in the name of the collective defence effort. This objective, while certainly optimistic, seems commendable to us. However, the transfer of OPEX funding to the military budget alone will inevitably cause difficulties, as this growing contribution will be less for our forces' investments and equipment programs. Of course, this will probably be bearable in the short term, especially since it is expected that equipment credits will be increased by 1.2 billion in 2018, but what will happen in the medium and long term, knowing that the military's infrastructure and equipment are already aging? In addition, the financing of OPEX and programme 146 inevitably raises the question of the carry-over of charges, hence the fulfilment of the annual objective of stabilization of the leftovers to be paid by the State, as provided for in article 14 of the draft law on the programming of public finances. Finally, we question the ability in the medium term to reconcile the necessary expenditure on equipment and equipment renewal with the necessary expenditure on human resources. While technological efforts are needed, particularly in the area of intelligence and logistics, they must not overshadow human investment, which remains strategic in controlling spaces and environments. As far as jobs are concerned, we welcome the creation in 2018 of 518 full-time equivalents, which will, in particular, increase the number of staff in the intelligence and cyberprotection services, which are highly strategic areas, since digital is also a front line against terrorism. However, this number remains low given the needs and, most importantly, past declines. In future budgets, efforts should not be relaxed or even increased. Beyond these considerations, which we know you share, Madam Minister, the Constructive Group will support this draft budget, as it will ensure an unprecedented increase in the financial effort for the armies, only able to enable our military to protect our fellow citizens in a world that has never been so dangerous and unpredictable. [[Applause on the benches of the LC and REM groups]] We know this is just a start. We welcome the positive signal. It is up to you to confirm this on the entire fiscal strategy of the legislature and in the future military programming law. In both the budgetary and military fields, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ultimate objective is not to win the battle, but to provide the means to win the war.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u43	The next speaker is Mr Joaquim Pueyo, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u44	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Defence Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the New Left Group has taken note of the €1.8 billion increase in military budget appropriations in a tense regional and international context. As stressed by the strategic review of defence and national security, France must not neglect any threat and must have all the means to act and defend itself. The maintenance of high-level funding for the maintenance of equipment under programme 178, "Preparation and use of forces", is fundamental, particularly because of the numerous commitments made by France and the areas in which we operate: it is known that, in the Sahel or in the Irako-Syrian area, the equipment is used five times faster than elsewhere. Similarly, an increase in funding for Program 146, "Equipment of Forces", is essential. Despite these increases, there are significant decreases in some programs, such as sub-action 09.75, "Operating in a hostile environment", which sees its commitment authorities and payment appropriations drastically decrease. The increase in appropriations allocated to the SCORPION programme is noteworthy. During your hearing before the Finance and Defence Committees, you, Madam Minister, expressed your willingness to see this programme speed up. We support this initiative. However, we remain dubious about its feasibility, due to the likely carry-overs of orders resulting from the cancellations of credits for 2017. Our soldiers are particularly sought after. In its last report, the High Military Condition Assessment Committee stressed their very strong commitment: within two years, a soldier must expect an average of four months of deployment in OPEX and four six-week engagements in an internal protection mission, such as Operation Sentinel; There are also training courses. The whole thing can lead a soldier to spend nearly 250 days a year away from his family. It was therefore necessary to ensure a return to training days; This was done for 2017, but we must continue this effort. In addition, there was a need to support families. We welcome the announcement a few days ago of a family support plan, but we will remain vigilant about its practical applications and its implementation over time. As far as the future is concerned, I take note of the amounts allocated for the protection of our military and defence facilities. Efforts to strengthen the operational reserve and cyber defence should also be highlighted. Despite these positive developments, the decisions taken in July 2017 by the Government limit the positive assessment we can have of this budget for 2018. The choices made by Bercy are implacable. As we have repeatedly pointed out, the cancellation of €850 million will limit the increases decided for 2018. Although you are announcing, Madam Minister, renegotiations of contracts to compensate for these decreases, we will see orders carried forward over the coming years – probably in 2019. This will delay the delivery of new equipment, yet so much expected by the military in operations. In addition to these cancellations, the ongoing freeze of EUR 700 million in appropriations is still in progress. You have affirmed your willingness to see these credits released. We can only support your request, but the budget's financial guidelines do not suggest any good. If this freeze were not released, its impact on the following budgets would be of great concern. The limitation of effort also appears with the guidelines for OPEX. The thawing of appropriations announced a few weeks ago will weigh €1.1 billion on the defence budget to finance external operations in 2017. This decision already has a strong impact on your department. The estimates are based on a total additional cost of around EUR 1.5 billion. You have told us of your willingness to see the additional €350 million brought by interministerial solidarity. The increase in appropriations for OPEX in 2018 from EUR 450 million to EUR 650 million is in the direction of better taking account of realities. However, it is imperative that we maintain inter-ministerial solidarity in this area. This is a choice for the future. So far, national solidarity has been reflected in this support. Minister, our will is to maintain this principle, so as not to place this burden on the defence budget alone; This would limit the military's ability to act and invest. The record extra cost of OPEX and the choice of very large cuts in 2017 amputate the department's ability to act and blur the defence budget's future. As General de Villiers wrote: "We can no longer deal with defence issues with an accounting approach"; Our armies need "trust and continuity to ensure ever more difficult missions." [[Smile]] Minister, I like currencies. "Believe and dare": I believe that you are animated by this state of mind. However, I noted another motto, that of a company of a regiment of parachute hunters: "No way, no way". It's Bercy who must be motivated by her! For all these reasons, the New Left Group will abstain from voting on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u45	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u46	Mr Bastien Lachaud, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u47	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now our armed forces have been engaged in several foreign theatres and deployed on national territory. Before I examine the budget, I want to pay tribute to the men and women involved. Ladies and gentlemen, we must decide whether the budget proposed by the Government is sufficient to enable them to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the Minister. We don't think so. The Government has boasted a great deal about increasing the defence budget by €1.8 billion, but a careful reading will ruin the hopes of those who still cultivate it. Of this amount, the €850 million of credits cancelled in 2017, which will have to be offset, must be deducted. It is also necessary to take into account the expenditure induced by the previous government's decisions: the maintenance of 18,700 jobs decided before 2017 will absorb part of the sum. In addition, EUR 200 million is already in place for the OPEX, and there is a concern that, in the long run, inter-ministerial funding of the OPEX will erode until it disappears. The Prime Minister has also indicated here that this is his wish. OPEX has also imposed a purchase of equipment that represents an expenditure of 3 billion spread between 2017 and 2019. However, the 2017 financial year is not complete: the planned exceptional revenue has not been obtained and, Madam Minister, you are still not in a position to guarantee the thawing of the 700 million euros outstanding. Your budget for 2018 is therefore not credible! However, the defence urgently needs the Government to match resources and missions. The budgets of previous years have been so inadequate that soldiers are being asked today to buy their own equipment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u48	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u49	Yes, it is! The modest programmes invoked by the majority in committee will not be enough to reverse the trend. In the navy, the number of patrollers is so small to monitor and protect our maritime territory, the second in the world, that it would be to protect the Hexagon with two police cars!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u51	The air force isn't much better off. The excellent report by our colleague Cornut-Gentille on strategic air transport points out that the fleet, in times of operation, is at a 7% availability rate. As for the army, the equipment it uses is often of alarming seniority. The case of armoured front vehicles, the VABs, is exemplary: they were put into service in 1976, and their polishing costs very precisely the price of the "Griffon" vehicle which should have already replaced them. One could continue the catalogue of the misery of an army which, more than ever, is based on the goodwill of the men and women who make up it; But they too are exhausting themselves, particularly as a result of Operation Sentinel, whose merits are largely questioned by the specialists. Human resources are drying up: their renewal is far from guaranteed. We heard the Chief of the Army Staff set themselves the goal of having an army returned to the same level of training in 2018 as in 2015! The Government will be able to protest that it inherits this situation. This will be unbelievable, when the tenant of the Elysée occupied Bercy for two years and the current minister of foreign affairs was at the time the minister of defence!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u52	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u53	In addition to the lack of resources, we must regret the lack of vision. The majority rejects the debate and refers us to the discussion of the next military programming bill. It branded the strategic review of national defence and security, which has the merit of drawing up an exhaustive list of threats, but which does not produce any reflection. It does not draw any strategic results from OPEX. The repositioning by the major powers is not discussed. There is no attempt to produce a doctrine of the use of forces in relation to the nature of the threats. The necessary debate on nuclear deterrence was decided before it was even opened. The effects of the creation of a new military service are not envisaged. One strategic line: France's alignment with NATO, that is, with US interests. ("Congratulations! On the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group.) The mantra of European defence is only an artifice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u54	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u55	The treaties make NATO membership an obligation. No general European interest in defence can be discerned, and attempts to cooperate in this regard have never been satisfactory. Even the objective of delivering the defence budget to 2% of GDP is nothing more than submitting to a NATO injunction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u57	In conclusion, the strategy is the first: it must dictate the budgetary guidelines. However, in the absence of a clear vision of the Government, it is the orientations of NATO, this obsolete and yet expansionist organization, that eventually become law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u58	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, He sees NATO everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The postures do not stand up to the examination of the facts. With this budget, the Government is continuing along the path of its predecessors. The group La France insoumise promotes a new French independence in favour of peace. He will therefore not vote for the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u61	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. I have before me a question from the Group of the European People's Party on the move. Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns European commitments in the framework of our common security and defence policy. We are defending a vision, that of the President of the Republic. It is about achieving European strategic autonomy, as indicated in the Strategic Review of Defence and National Security. It states that the "convergence of threats on Europe requires that Europeans be more committed to their own security, and work towards the ambition of common strategic autonomy". This strategic autonomy is not a unilateral will; it was recognised in June 2016 by the 28 Heads of State and Government in the overall strategy of the European Union. This demanding ambition requires a new impetus. Yet, on the ground, initiatives struggle to materialize. While European countries spend almost €230 billion on defence, spending remains fragmented and poorly coordinated. There are 17 armoured vehicle programmes and seven frigate programmes in Europe, and the few R & D credits are used for non-complementary purposes. Member States therefore work in isolation, and joint expenditure is minor. With a combined budget of the European States finally falling and a lack of cooperation between Member States whose cost is between 25 and 100 billion euros according to the estimates of the European Commission, France's efforts in this area are to be welcomed, and the President of the Republic's policy to encourage, as it gives a new course to a Europe that aims to be ambitious for its security and the defence of its fellow citizens. A European defence fund was created this summer by the European Commission. It consists of two strands: a "research" component and a "equipment" component, with EUR 500 million and EUR 1 billion per year respectively. It remains to be seen how this can be managed: the European Defence Agency seems to have full legitimacy in this area. In this context, Madam Minister, how can France and the most committed Member States optimise their efforts to make a genuine common defence possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u63	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u64	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question. It has two aspects: on the one hand, it concerns the sharing of equipment at European level and, on the other, it concerns the progress expected in the field of European defence policy. There are a number of examples of equipment sharing. I am thinking in the first place of the mutualisation of means of transport and refuelling, with the EATC – European Air Transport Command – but also of the sharing of sky police missions, the almost systematic integration of European means – whether they are frigates or helicopters within the aircraft group – and of a series of initiatives such as the Franco-German brigade, the Franco-British expeditionary force or the Franco-German transport unit C-130J, not to mention a number of joint formations on the Tiger and on the A400M. Such cooperation must, of course, be continued; In the field of equipment, this requires the European Defence Fund, whose contours are in the process of being precise with a view to implementation by 2020. We therefore intend to move forward within the framework of this fund, but also with our partners, in particular German, in order to advance the common definition of certain future equipment: combat aircraft, as planned at the Franco-German summit last July, drones, tanks or artillery. At the operational level, as you have pointed out, the President of the Republic invites us to set a new course through the European intervention initiative. It is also up to our European neighbours, now, to seize the pole that has been stretched to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u65	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u66	I will concede to you, Madam Minister, that my question is not about today's budget but about tomorrow's budget: a parliamentarian takes every opportunity to seek the Government's opinion. Since Emmanuel Macron's arrival at the Elysée, everyone has rightly evoked a rise in power and the preservation of the complete military model, which we can only rejoice at. However, I would like to express to the Government, the majority and the entire national representation, my concern after the hearings conducted in recent months, both on the strategic review and to hear from the leaders of our armies and the Government. Everyone pleads for the complete army, but it seems that it is accepted only intermittently. I'm talking about the renewal of the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier. Our nation, engaged in a long war, sees an essential element of its military capability paralyzed due to maintenance operations – but the delay could be shorter – given the wear and tear of the crews and the need for rest, renewal and re-conditioning. The strategic review rightly refers to the multiplicity of threats, including their nature, and the possible attacks on our interests in very different geographical areas. Rather than the renewal of the Charles de Gaulle, is the question not whether we need one or two aircraft carriers? In my view, in fact, the alternative is rather between none or two. I'll explain. What is the point of having an aircraft carrier if you are regularly deprived of it? The English have also done the same analysis: they are carrying out a second series of tests on their first aircraft carrier, and have chosen to have two. We aim to be the first European army, but everything points to a renunciation of a second aircraft group – since the question does not relate to the aircraft carrier as such. I would like to know the Government's thinking on this subject, on the understanding that the decisions will be taken within the framework of the military programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u67	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u68	I'm finishing, Madam President. In fact, I said, the first study appropriations will have to be made available before the end of this Parliament. Has the Government evacuated in advance the idea that a full army should be permanently and not intermittently? Between one or two aircraft carriers, one will of course have to decide at one time or another.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u69	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u70	At the moment, the aircraft carrier industry is doing well in the world, with a large number of buildings under construction. The reason, moreover, is simple: they are exceptional military tools, in terms of projection capabilities to the ground but also of autonomous acquisition of information and, above all, of control of aero-sea spaces. They are also political tools with high media visibility and instruments of credibility vis-à-vis our allies, which is a factor for the integration of European political will: a number of recent deployments around Charles de Gaulle have proved this. As soon as the next law of military programming is in place, we must, in any event, launch a process of minimum preparation for the replacement of the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier, whose end of life is estimated at 2040. But, you are right, another question will have to be asked: is it necessary, before this deadline, to equip us with a second aircraft carrier?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u71	I just wanted to hear the Government's thinking on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u72	The answer is premature at this stage, but the question will be widely debated within a few months.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u73	The next speaker is Mr Luc Carvounas, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u74	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Defence Committee, the Special Rapporteurs, the draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations for programme 146, on the equipment of forces, are on the increase. However, many of us recalled this evening, the cancellation of €850 million in appropriations for the 2017 financial year and the still current freeze of an additional €700 million are expected to pose a risk to orders in 2018 and 2019. However, a note that your cabinet sent to the members of the Defence Committee after your hearing on 3 October, the Minister, states that the cancellation already decided will be "without long-term physical impact" due to a "re-evaluation of the payment requirements and renegotiation of arms contracts that are being discussed with the industrialists". We can therefore question these contracts, whose renegotiation should save large sums and which could have been cheaper from the outset. In a constrained budgetary context, where European cooperation and solidarity are, moreover, only at a little advanced stage, the question of the amounts that could be saved by better information on the margins available does not seem to be negligible. The New Left Group has therefore tabled an amendment to make a more precise point on this issue. Can you, Madam Minister, provide us with more specific information on these renegotiations, which should limit the carry-overs of 2017 to subsequent years?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u75	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u76	The cancellation of €850 million in appropriations had three main effects: the first was the downward revision of a number of contributions to organizations that had a large cash flow; the second, the delay of a few months in the delivery of certain equipment; the third, which you have just mentioned, the renegotiation of a number of contracts, mainly with regard to the delay of studies relating to the F4 standard of the Rafale plane – it is this last point that has been renegotiated with the industrial one. The second renegotiated program was that of middle-sized frigates. This is the renegotiation of the logistical conditions surrounding the acquisition of these frigates. Finally, the third and final programme concerned: the Mirage 2000-D, for which a conditional portion of the renovation programme has been shifted and renegotiated downwards. These are the three main programmes whose revision has resulted in permanent savings.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u77	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u78	I call the "Defence" mission's appropriations, which are listed in Statement B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 762.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u79	Like President Mélenchon, my colleague Lachaud made clear the terms of the debate earlier. We would like to return to France's financial contribution to NATO, which today amounts to EUR 143.27 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 142.07 million in payment appropriations. Our country's membership in the Atlantic Alliance, in our view, undermines its military and strategic independence. This Alliance, whose historical vocation was defensive, now incorporates a preventive vocation: the weight of words here is considerable, because it is "preventive" that the United States has decided to intervene militarily in Iraq, do you mind, which has led to the disastrous situation that we are experiencing today. In addition, NATO's geographical expansion, which now includes almost thirty countries and extends to Eastern Europe, is evidence of the American will to form a military bloc, an instrument of a balance of power with the rest of the world, including Russia. What are we going to do in this mess? We refuse to subscribe to such a bellicist and Atlanticist strategy, and wish to reaffirm France's strategic independence in foreign policy by allowing the acceleration of weapons programmes essential to our military sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This amendment therefore seeks to abolish French contributions to the operation of NATO, to the benefit of major weapons programmes, such as the Scorpion programme or the A400M.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u80	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u81	As this amendment was not before the Committee on Finance and the following amendments, I shall express my personal opinion and that of Mr Cornut-Gentille on their account. France intends to strengthen its defence effort and to play a growing role in NATO in the years to come. From a strategic point of view, it would therefore not be consistent to question the French contributions to the Alliance. On the other hand, the necessary support for the Scorpion programme is real as the appropriations allocated to it increase from EUR 100 million to EUR 1 billion. As for the pace of delivery, there is no need to upset it, unless the number of devices ordered is increased. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u82	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u83	As the Special Rapporteur has just pointed out, the amendment seeks to redeploy some EUR 143 million from the French contribution to the NATO budget to the A400M programme or the Scorpion programme. I am not in favour of this, as France decided in 2009 to rejoin NATO's integrated command.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u84	It is in your power to reverse this decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u85	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Through this commitment, the Ministry of Armed Forces participates fully in all the structures and budgets of this organization. The finance bill is not the place to re-discuss major decisions taken by our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u86	They've never been discussed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u87	He's here to implement them. Once these decisions have been taken, putting an end to these subsidies would call into question these commitments, in particular in disregard of the benefits of the integrated structures. These, for example, allow for participation in cooperation programmes initiated by Member States, such as the NH90 helicopter. With regard to the redeployments that have been proposed, as has been said at the moment, the A400M programme is fully properly equipped. Two deliveries will be made next year. The same applies to the Scorpion programme. I am therefore not in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u88	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u89	I thank the Special Rapporteur and the Minister for their replies. However, Mr Special Rapporteur, I tabled this amendment in an enlarged committee. So let us not waste time saying that it was not presented: it is not the subject. I am also surprised at the level of the answers that you and the minister bring. You're telling me that's how it is, and the minister says it was decided in 2009 by President Nicolas Sarkozy. But even when President Sarkozy made this decision, it was never discussed here in front of the national representation. When are we going to discuss it? Let's put this on the agenda! It is up to us to decide whether or not to participate in NATO.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u90	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u91	Why? You have the right to think yes, but let's discuss it! You cannot answer us only with an argument of authority, because Nicolas Sarkozy decided in 2009. It's still a way to lower our role! We need to discuss it. That you defend the fact that you have to participate, that is, but this is where you have to make the decision. I find it quite incredible that the parliamentarians we are receive for any answer only one "move, there is nothing to see". It is a heavy decision, which engages us, which has a strategic, political meaning. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Madam Minister, excuse this somewhat angry tone, but I am surprised that such a heavy decision is swept away with a back of hand on the grounds that it is President Sarkozy who made the decision and that the Members we are no longer have to say anything about it. Suffer that we wanted to debate it again, precisely because the national representation never discussed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u92	This vote is the answer we are giving!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u93	You have good arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u94	Sarkozy said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u95	I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 722.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u96	"We are the army of the Nation and not that of the Ministry of Armed Forces. The safeguard clause enshrines the principle of the contribution of the nation as a whole to the effort required by any military engagement in operation, under the control of Parliament. It is exactly in line with these words, pronounced by General Lecointre, Chief of the Armed Staff before our Defence Committee, that this amendment is part of it. It thus plans to leave the contribution of the Ministry of Armed Forces to the financing of external operations – OPEX – at the same level as the initial finance law for 2017. The additional costs of OPEX will be borne by an interdepartmental effort. This appropriation will be transferred to the Force Equipment Program. The obsolescence of a very large number of our equipment is a real problem for the effectiveness of our operations and for the safety of our soldiers. In addition, to preserve our industrial and military know-how, it is urgent that the various equipment programs of our forces be launched in our three armies. The strategic review sought by the President of the Republic defends the maintenance of a complete and balanced military model. We are, of course, on this line, but to keep this model we have to give ourselves the means to do so. Despite the increase in the budget of the "Defence" mission, when we look at it in detail, we are still far away from the account.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u98	I would just like to point out that the aim of the increase in OPEX appropriations is to make the budget more sincere. The adoption of this amendment would reduce this effort to energize and reduce the resources allocated to our military, hence the financing of the war that our forces are waging against terrorism. So I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u99	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u100	Unfavorable opinion. As indicated during this meeting and in an expanded committee, the Government wished to reduce the difference in the past between the amount of the provision to finance OPEX under the original finance law and the final amount of these operations. I'm not saying that the 2018 finance bill completely closes this gap, but it narrows it down. Your amendment, Mr Bilde, would have the effect of potentially negating this effort of simmering which some of your colleagues have welcomed. In addition, the objective of the amendment is to abound program 146, which, as part of this finance bill for 2018, benefits from a very strong upgrading, as commitment authorities increase by 35%. This will make it possible to launch some work, notably on the F4 standard of the Rafale aircraft, which were slightly shifted but which we will find again in 2018. Other programmes include the commissioning of three MRTT refuelling aircraft. For these two reasons, I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u101	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 512.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u102	[["Really? » on the benches of the REM group]] Rangers with soles that take off and melt under heat in the mountains of the Ifoghas; an intervention in Mali with 27 helicopters between three separate 500-kilometre combat zones, where the United States reportedly deployed 50 helicopters; our AMX-10 tanks, our Leclerc tanks, our infantry armoured combat vehicles, whose respective age averages of 31, 14 and 5 allow for availability only 55 per cent, 65 per cent and 75 per cent respectively; submarines that take the water – there are leaks, it seems, it is the military that say so; a fixed-wing aircraft carrier immobilized every six months; a weakness in ammunition stocks, which considerably limits the navy in its range of operations and in its trainings: this is the daily life of the French military. This daily is the D system at every moment, young people leaving the army, endangering its sustainability. From now on, the lives of the military are no longer only threatened by those they fight, but also, sometimes, by the equipment with which they fight, the very one that the army puts at their disposal. Is it worthy of France, as our soldiers work daily to repel Islamist terrorists with Barkhane operations in the Sahel and Shamal in Iraq and Syria? Is that how we hope to bring French know-how and our military genius to the benefit of the people who need it? If France is still on the podium of the world's most powerful armies, with a fifth place preserved, according to Global Firepower, let's not stop our efforts. The army will not be able to keep its rank by retrenching its equipment from all ends. Because our army must protect its soldiers, because it is competent and effective, because it is a showcase of our nation, France must give it more means to improve its ability to intervene in combat zones.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u103	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u104	The Defence Committee has not considered this amendment. As far as I'm concerned, I'll give an unfavorable opinion. The removal of EUR 123 million of staff costs as you propose is a threat to the functioning of the services concerned, in particular those responsible for supporting the forces in fuel and ammunition, health support and general support by the military police station. Contrary to the arguments that you have put forward, honourable Member, there is reason to fear that, in essence, this amendment will not improve our ability to intervene in combat zones as you wish. If our soldiers don't have anyone to supply them with gasoline and ammunition or to take care of the deaths, we don't see how they can achieve their goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u105	What is the opinion of the committee, Mr President?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u106	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u107	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u108	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment would reduce the appropriations for programme 212 by EUR 123 million. These wage bill expenses are to a very large extent compulsory. The reallocation of appropriations that you are proposing, Madam Member, would very likely lead to a risk of insufficient appropriations in management 2018, which is not the objective we are looking for. We wish to vote in the original finance law a sincere budget. I therefore fear that a risk of insinuity may be raised by the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u109	Self-censorship!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u110	You are also proposing to reallocate funds to Action 09 "Commitment and combat", which will benefit in 2018 from high commitment authorisations – 4,817 billion euros – representing a 5% increase, and payment appropriations reaching 3,508 billion euros. These endowments will enable the launching of new orders for individual weapons, the commissioning of twenty Griffon multi-role heavy armoured vehicles, the commissioning of equipment renovations, for example the Mirage 2000 D. Therefore, to increase the appropriations for this action by EUR 123 million would most likely have no short-term effect on the volume of equipment delivered. Between the disadvantage of cancelling appropriations under Title 2, i.e. payroll expenditure, and the unseen advantage that there would be a plethora of appropriations under Action 09 of Programme 146, this amendment does not fulfil its objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u111	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u112	The answers you are making, the rapporteurs, the minister, are in quite bad faith. You know as we do that we are obliged to take a sum of money in one line to put it in another – it is Article 40 that compels us to do so. Of course, I do not wish to reduce the appropriations allocated to staff to put them elsewhere, but we have no choice. If we do not, the amendment is rebutted. So this money transfer is a symbol to alert you about something else. I know that taking an amount from staff costs to spend on equipment is not the panacea. In order to be able to defend an amendment in this House, however, everyone is obliged to lend himself to this small game. Everyone knows that, and everyone has to do the same thing. And every time you go back to our amendments, you say it's not right. I agree with you, but we have no choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u113	Mrs Severine Gipson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u114	Mrs Ménard, contrary to what you have just said, this amendment would not increase our deployment capabilities, but would reduce them. Program 212 funds military balances and all military support. In concrete terms, amputating it by EUR 123 million, it will reduce by a quarter the crucial effort contained in the draft finance law for infrastructure improvement under the Family Plan by EUR 413 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u115	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 506.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u116	I will therefore take an oratory precaution: once again, this transfer of money will be in the order of the symbol. I don't want to undress James to dress Paul: that's not my point. I agree with you that real estate policy is essential to support defence policy. Also, I regret to have to take this envelope to feed the intelligence envelope. So things are clear. I don't do it with heart gaiety: I'm just forced to do it by this famous article 40. But a choice must be made, especially as the terrorist threat does not weaken and the international geopolitical situation is extremely complex and tense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u117	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u118	In France, in 2018, 1.4 billion euros will be spent on intelligence services. This is better than 1.17 billion last year, but we are far from the 3.5 billion that would allow us to live up to 0.15% of the gross domestic product of our overseas neighbours. I regret, for example, that this tight budget is deadlocking on one essential aspect: economic intelligence. For, obviously, we are at war, in this field, with our allies; We have a regular opportunity to realize that. But, while money is often the nerve of war, it does not do everything: the adaptation of our intelligence services is also indispensable. Indeed, there are many who denounce the scattered nature of our services and the lack of fluidity affecting the transmission of the information they collect. The 2016 report of the parliamentary intelligence delegation, submitted a few months ago, highlights in particular the importance of intelligence gathering in the prison world, a true incubator of Islamist terrorism. There are many construction sites, I know, but should be able to further improve the results of our services, which I would like to welcome here: should we recall that they have foiled no less than twenty attacks in 2016? Let's give them the means to further improve their performance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u120	There is no reason to proceed with the proposed transfer, because, if we look at the balance of the PLF, we find that a major effort is being made in intelligence: 1000 additional posts will be created between 2017 and 2019 and, in the area of equipment, the intelligence will benefit greatly from the investment credits. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u121	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u122	I have noted, Madam, your oratory precaution. However, I am obliged to reply to you that the real estate policy, on which you suggest – for lack of better, I understand it – to draw up to abound action 3 of the 144 programme, is one of the priorities of this budget...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u123	That's not an answer! All you have to do is raise the pledge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u124	... since, as you know, it has been subject to numerous restrictions in previous years and we must not only improve the security of military rights of way, but also make an effort, which will continue in subsequent years, to provide accommodation and accommodation for the military.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u125	That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u126	Moreover, as indicated above, the payment appropriations for the share for which you want to abound are increasing sharply, as they will increase by 20% in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u127	That's an answer! The only valid one!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u128	For these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u129	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara, in support of Amendment No. 771.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u130	A very good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u131	I would like to reassure President Bridey and my colleague Cornut-Gentille: I do not make a "fixette" on the Caracal. I'll explain to you the reasons for my perseverance about him. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As I announced earlier, I tabled this amendment so that the renewal of this helicopter, two copies of which were destroyed in operation, would be included in the 2018 Finance Bill. This renewal was planned for the end of 2017; It's been cancelled. Whatever the reasons for this cancellation; I do not wish to argue about this. What is important is that the Caracal is used by our special forces to carry out their actions, especially in the Sahel. I am not a defender of the air force here, nor of the special forces. This helicopter is piloted by members of the air force, but it is in the service of the special forces, coming from all the armies. I speak for the people I have met on the ground, military or political leaders who are well informed about the situation. You know the importance of the actions of our special forces and what will happen in the coming months. In this context, it seems to me harmful – and the word is weak – that the renewal of this helicopter is not planned. If it is not registered in 2017, if it is not registered in 2018, it brings us to 2019; It will then be too late, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u132	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u133	I want to make you aware of this problem. I am speaking to all our colleagues, without any controversial intention. This is not a political discussion; It is in the interest of our armed forces, engaged far from home. We're talking about 40 million euros! That is why I propose to abound with this sum, in commitment authorizations, Action No. 9, "Commitment and combat", of Program 146,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u135	... by drawing it on actions Nos 8 and 11 of programme 212, "Support for defence policy", which concern communication and cultural and educational policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u136	Very good proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u137	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Far from the idea of denigrating these communication actions; simply, given the level of operational engagement of our forces, the priority seems to me to equip our soldiers to enable them to carry out the missions that the political authorities we are entrust to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u138	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u139	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u141	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u142	No explanation?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u143	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u144	The Committee on Defence has not considered this amendment, but I would like to make a few comments on it which I believe are important. Firstly, the amendment responds to a request from the Air Force, which my report states. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] As you said, my dear colleague: the order of a Caracal to replace the one of the two destroyed devices that was not repairable was planned in 2017, but it was not carried out, and neither does the finance bill for 2018 provide for it. This temporary reduction in capacity is a problem, especially given the mobility of special forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u145	All the more reason to vote on the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u146	But you are raising another real difficulty: the operational readiness rate of these equipment. For the Caracal fleet, it is particularly weak: we speak of less than 25%. Maintaining this fleet in operational condition is a real problem. I do not mean that the optimisation of the operational condition would be sufficient to replace the missing device, but there is something to do in this area, and it is a global reflection that needs to be done. That is the purpose of the mission that the minister entrusted to Mr. Chabbert, and which I believe we must wait for the conclusions. This mission concerns not only the MCO, but also the renewal of certain fleets – I am thinking of the HIL program, a light joint helicopter – and, more generally, the homogeneity of our helicopter fleets.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u147	Disquieting questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u148	In this connection, perhaps the minister will be able to tell us what is the status of the project to transfer the 4th Special Forces Helicopter Regiment to the Caracal Air Force, which now belong to the Army, but could usefully be replaced by Caymans in order to simplify the management of the fleets.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u149	That is not the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u150	Personally, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u151	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u152	In view of the cancellations of appropriations amounting to EUR 850 million, we were indeed required to postpone the replacement of the Caracal helicopter. The military staff is currently studying the reprogramming of various equipment, such as this one, which has been delayed. I think I can answer you very simply, Mr Ferrara: among these reprogrammings is the Caracal, in 2018. Your amendment therefore seems to me to be satisfactory. As for the consolidation and rationalization of the Air Force and Army helicopter fleet, in particular in order to improve the capabilities of special operations, we plan to bring together the Cazaux air base on a single base, all the means, but not immediately: this would be done gradually by 2025. Finally, with regard to the task I have entrusted to Mr Chabbert, which is justified by the very low level of availability which you have mentioned, the draftsman of the opinion, his conclusions will be delivered to me in a few weeks' time. I would simply point out to all Members here that the rates referred to are average rates. They are very unsatisfactory, I grant you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u153	And even very disturbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u154	... but the availability rates of our equipment in operation are obviously very different: they are around 80% or more. It is the entire park that is targeted by the averages discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u155	Mr Patrice Verchère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u156	Under the title Servir, General Pierre de Villiers, former Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, tomorrow publishes a book of reflections on the defence of France and the military state.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u157	Hasard?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u158	Very good reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u159	A priori, according to what can be read in the media, especially in Le Monde, the general does not settle his accounts, but wants to do before any work of pedagogy. In the name of a conception worthy of his past as a high-ranking military, he details the current commitments of the armies and justifies the need to give them resources, in the service of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u160	What does this have to do with the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u161	He recalls, if it were necessary, that one should not win a war without an effort of war, adding that "military cemeteries, if they could speak, would tell us." He considers that there has been little change in the data in the equation since July and its removal. The former CEMA believes that "the budgetary arbitrations for the management of the 2017 budget and [the] 2018 finance bill" cannot, as it stands, "ensure the sustainability [of our] military model [so as] to guarantee the protection of France and the French, today and tomorrow" – close the ban.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u162	Everybody knows!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u163	You have just given a concrete example, Madam Minister, of the cancellation of the €850 million in appropriations: it prevented us from buying a Caracal in 2017; Moreover, for 40 million euros, we will also deprive ourselves of buying one in 2018,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u164	There it is, the connection with the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u165	You didn't hear the minister's answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u166	...which will lead our special forces to limit their actions. By voting on Mr Ferrara's amendment, we would allow them to continue to serve our country in accordance with the political orders made to them, as our colleague reminded us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u167	What a demagogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u168	This is an additional demonstration of the fact that it was this cancellation of credits that led to the postponement of certain purchases...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u169	It's unstoppable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u170	...on a date we don't know: 2018? No. 2019? Neither! [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] The draftsman, when speaking, seemed very embarrassed: he had difficulty justifying his unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u172	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u173	Madam Minister, I have heard what you are committed to, and I am glad to hear that. We will be vigilant about the reprogramming in 2018 of the Caracal order. As you can see, our approach was neither political nor controversial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u174	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 510.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u175	[["No! » on various benches]] I do not go back to the precautions that should surround proposals for transfers of appropriations from one budget line to another. France is the third most represented and active country in the world abroad. This position, which one might be proud of, is the fruit of a long, rich and prestigious history. For example, France is still represented by 160 embassies, 89 consulates general or consulates, 120 consular sections of the embassy and 154 cooperation and cultural services, plus scientific services. But this French representation is in danger. For, on the pretext that European diplomacy must be carried to the pinnacle – which is rather, if we are realistic, a lack of European diplomacy – France tends to neglect its representation in the world, whereas it is crucial for economic agreements, for the protection of the French abroad as well as for those on our soil, and finally for French civilization to continue to radiate in the world. In recent years, for example, there have been more closures of embassies and consulates than openings. I would like to cite one example. The closure of our embassy in Damascus in 2012 was perceived as an abandonment of the Syrian population, of the French high school – which no longer receives subsidies but nevertheless continues to radiate French culture – and, as a bonus, as a sacred mark of hypocrisy, if one remembers that, at the same time as the French state was blaming the regime of Bashar al-Assad, it financed Syrians of the opposition, who, for some, were none other than Al-Nosra fighters. The President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, himself admitted last July that the closure of our embassy in Syria had been of "no effectiveness". So when will you seriously consider reopening it? It would be a symbolic measure, but necessary for France to retain its rank and diplomatic influence in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u178	Madam Member, defence diplomacy brings together various activities which are not all strictly military and whose aim is to create a stable and peaceful environment. This amendment, which would be intended to intervene in the "External Action of the State" mission, is therefore not aimed at the right mission, with a view to defence diplomacy. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u179	I have before me three amendments, Nos 788, 787 and 786, which can be presented together. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u180	Minister, you said you wanted a sincere budget, which led to a number of rebudgetings in your draft budget for 2018. A sincere budget incorporates increases in fuel prices, particularly in the light of World Bank forecasts and changes in environmental taxation. It also takes into account recruitment forecasts, which will in fact increase vehicle traffic. The aim of this amendment is to give a small boost to the fuel budget line, so that your budget is sincere. You're going to tell me that I've managed it, but it's because the Constitution is making us Members of Parliament: if you raise the pledge, it'll be even better. The three amendments correspond to slightly different versions of the proposed measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u181	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u182	It is difficult to base the budget forecast of operational fuel expenditures on an overall World Bank estimate of the barrel price. Any price changes that may occur will result in management adjustments, as is normal in such cases. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u184	Madam Member, I understand your concern to properly assess the fuel supply, and I think I can say that in the 2018 Finance Bill, that is the case. As you may have noticed yourself, the fuel allocation has been significantly revised upwards from €460 million in 2017 to almost €480 million in 2018. We have taken into account the evolution of the Brent barrel price, using a price of $55 per barrel as a construction assumption, which is $10 more than what had been taken into account in the 2017 Finance Act. This is a hypothesis similar to that of the World Bank.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u185	A little below.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u186	On the other hand, we all know that this is subject to very high uncertainties given the volatility of these markets. Furthermore, I would like to point out that, in calculating the allocation, account is also taken of the costs of purchasing refining and transport, the operating costs of the service of the military gasolines, as well as of a hedging mechanism in the financial markets that functions as a price stabilizer. I therefore do not consider it useful to make an additional allocation. I am against the three amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u187	Mrs Severine Gipson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u188	[[Smile]] Mrs Rabault, there is your affection for the "fuel amendments", after the police and the gendarmerie. The provision for fuel is sufficient to cover requirements, even in the event of rising oil prices. If prices were to blaze, which is considered unlikely by the service of the essences of the armies, arrangements would be made in management by the Government, without it being to the detriment of other actions. Moreover, our figures are different from yours. The IMF forecasts, for example, a 4.6% increase between the fourth quarter of 2017 and the fourth quarter of 2018. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we suggest that you trust the French statisticians of INSEE and therefore reject these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u189	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u190	It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u191	Did you miss it? On behalf of my group, I support this realistic and pragmatic amendment, which aims to ensure that the armed forces have the means to operate, taking into account the fluctuations in fuel, which are a principle of reality for both our citizens and our armed forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u192	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u193	At this late hour, if the MEP from the REM Group seems to be happy to fight this amendment, we are serious about...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u194	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u195	[[Applause on a few benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We're serious from time to time! It happens to us! And even more often than in our turn... We believe that this amendment has the strength of pragmatism and must be supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u197	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 447.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u198	This amendment concerns the extension of the time limit for the transfer of care facilities for dependent elderly people – the EHPAD – from the National Office for Veterans and War Victims. While they were dependent on this office, article 74 of the 2016 Finance Act allowed them to be transferred free of charge and in full ownership to national public health or medico-social institutions jointly identified by the regional health agency and the departmental council concerned. The legal, heritage, financial and accounting framework for transfers had to be established by decree and by agreements approved by decree and had to define the modalities for implementation. Today, six of the eight EHPADs involved in this scheme have already been transferred. The remaining two, who were waiting for a recovery solution, recently found themselves taking over. However, the transfer will not be possible before the end of the year. That is why I propose that you extend the original deadline for completing these transfers to allow the National Office for Veterans and War Victims to focus on its core business, that is, the support of its nationals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u199	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u200	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u201	Surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u202	You have the floor, Madam Minister, to support Amendment No. 970.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u203	The first aspect of this amendment is to introduce for the benefit of the military a mechanism for the repair of occupational diseases caused by asbestos equivalent to that which exists for employees under private law as well as for civil servants and contractual agents under public law. Article 146 of the Financial Law for 2016 had in fact generalized the mechanism for the repair of these occupational diseases to the employees of the three public offices, without including the military. The proposed provisions therefore provide for the early cessation of activity and for a specific allowance for military personnel, provided that they are recognised as suffering from an occupational disease caused by asbestos. The second aspect of this amendment is to harmonise the conditions for eligibility, calculation and cumulation of this early termination allowance for civil servants and public servants exercising or having performed certain functions in establishments or parts of shipbuilding and ship repair establishments of the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Sea. It therefore provides for the repeal of article 96 of the Financial Amendment Act for 2003 and article 157 of the Financial Act for 2011, since the officers of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Sea are now governed by the provisions of article 146 of the Financial Act for 2016. The third aspect is to allow civil servants placed on standby or off-the-shelf positions, as well as State workers working in the Naval Group, who have signed an indefinite contract with the company, to benefit from a career renewal for the calculation of the amount of their asbestos allowance and retirement pension. This measure thus takes into account the impact of this recruitment on the entitlements of these personnel who, at the time they expressed their choice for recruitment by Naval Group, were not informed of the consequences of this change in status on the calculation of the amount of their allowance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u205	We can only support this regulation. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u206	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u207	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I would like to urge our colleagues in France to vote for this amendment, which is the result of a long-term work with the trade unions. At Naval Group sites alone – ex-DCNS – it is about 200 state workers who have chosen to contract in CDI with Naval Group that will be able to see their rights recognized and their career reconstituted for the calculation of their rights to repairs to asbestos exposures. The REM Group will vote for this amendment, which shows that the flexibility of military careers between the public and private sectors can be accompanied by the safety of mixed career paths.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u208	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u209	In the same way, our group will vote in favour of this amendment, which is a measure of common sense. We know the course of the fighter of all those who have been affected by asbestos and their families. It is a real measure of social justice. It would also be interesting if the unanimity around this "Defence" mission could also be expressed with other ministries on similar subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u210	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u211	As a Norman elected candidate, I have daily relationships with DCNS employees, including welder boilermakers, who have been victims of asbestos like many other employees in Normandy. It is fair that this amendment allows for recognition of their exposure to the risk of asbestos. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Exposure to asbestos is a major risk and causes one of the most common occupational diseases; I regret – with you, I hope – that the case law now turns out for the victims any prospect of redress. I share the opinion just expressed: it would be good if this decision, which is the unanimous decision of our Assembly, allowed the workers of the Havre yards, those of the refineries of France and Navarre, and those of all the industries in which they risked their lives – even though they have only put their skills at the service of a profession they loved – to obtain the right recognition and compensation for the damage suffered. Yes, we will vote for this amendment and we hope that the Minister of Labour, as well as your other colleagues, will appropriate it for the largest number of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u212	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u213	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There was no need to question our group for us to vote on this amendment, which provides for the fair recognition of the tragedy of asbestos. On the other hand, I would like to point out that many workers who have been exposed to this risk cannot, today, have their rights recognised. National representation and the Government must move forward on this issue. In the meantime, of course, we will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u215	We're all on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u216	Nice unanimity! I call Mr Joaquim Pueyo to support Amendment No. 709.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u217	Minister, this amendment takes up the question that Mr Luc Carvounas asked you a few moments ago. It tends to evaluate France's equipment policy, and in particular its costs in comparison with our European allies in NATO. Indeed, following the hearing you gave us, a note from the ministry came to the parliamentarians, indicating that the cancellation of €850 million in credits in 2017 would be "without long-term physical impact", due to a "re-evaluation of the payment requirements on the programs" and the "renegotiation of arms contracts that are being discussed with the industrialists". That's what I'm talking about. I think a good study could help identify the room for manoeuvre. The question is whether the original equipment contracts are not overstated in relation to prices for equipment of the same range in allied or comparable countries. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to ask the Government for a report to assess the policies of the defence industry in this area and the contracts with our country to equip our forces. This report could also identify ways to improve the equipment of our military while measuring the impact of the freezes and cancellations on the 2017 financial year and their impact on the 2018 and 2019 budgets.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u219	Mr President, the end-of-management measures of 2017 were designed not to compromise the operational activity or the security of the forces, not to mention that of our fellow citizens. The New Left Group believes that there are room for structural budgetary manoeuvres in contracts between DGA and industrialists; As you can see, that's not the case. The only room for manoeuvre that exists is necessary to feed the discussion. This report would duplicate the documentation currently available. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u221	Madam President, Mr Pueyo, as you have pointed out, a series of information has been transmitted to the Assembly, detailing the elements of comparison, in particular the NATO statistical publications which relate to each other's efforts in the field of equipment. You call for even better information; But we will have the opportunity, within the framework of the military programming law, to produce very detailed notes well before the twelve months advocated by the amendment. Moreover, this amendment, if voted, could be invalidated because it is clearly a legislative rider; I don't think it's necessary to take that risk. I therefore say yes on the substance: we will transmit all the relevant information to Parliament to inform it in future debates; but it is not useful to adopt this amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u222	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u223	Madam Minister, on the contrary, I think that this amendment would make it a little clearer, particularly in Budget 2018. When we look at action 08.42, we see that for the projection of forces, with the aircraft A400M, we increase from 325 to 190 million euros; It would be interesting to distinguish between the price effect and the effect related to the number of aircraft involved – unless you think that the A400M has no future. For the Tiger helicopter, at action 09.68, between 2017 and 2018, from 299 million to 217 million. Here, too, what's going on? Our colleague is right to ask the question: is it a price effect or, here too, an effect linked to the number of devices involved? For the Rafale, the variation is inverse. As you said, there will be deliveries of Rafale in 2018, but between 2017 and 2018 we go from 483 million euros to 585 million euros, while you told us that you were renegotiating the contract. It's hard to find it, between the price-effect and the number-effect. Given the amounts involved, the national representation must be clear about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u224	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 755.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u225	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is of great importance to us. We are asking for a report measuring the impact of the extra cost of OPEX on the defence budget. Indeed, allow me this familiarity, it is a bit the founding trick of your budget, which integrates the cost of the OPEX by no longer calling for interdepartmental solidarity. We debated it in committee: you are, in good faith, unable to judge how much these OPEX would cost. That is precisely what gives this budget its vague contours and leads to the view, as my colleague Lachaud has noted, that it is not up to the needs. In view of all these hesitations and the lack of information provided by the Government on the budgetary fate of the OPEXs, it seems to us essential that Parliament obtain precise information on their cost and method of financing. We reaffirm our will: the extra cost of OPEX must be borne through inter-ministerial solidarity, as before. This report, if you accept it, would enable us to assess the conditions under which we decide to commit our military forces to the outside theatre and the cost of OPEX conducted outside the UN mandate. That is the meaning of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u227	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u229	Disadvantaged too. We have already had an opportunity to discuss it. This is a provision in the Finance Bill. By definition, a provision does not cover 100% of an expenditure which, in itself, is not fully assessable at the time when this budget is discussed before national representation. The €650 million of appropriations, which represent 200 million more than last year, will not pay in 2018 the total final expenditure of the OPEXs that will be carried out that year. With regard to the other aspect of your question – whether national representation is properly informed of the total additional costs of OPEX – it is a posteriori, by definition. This subject will come back to your assembly very soon in the context of the amending finance bill; Finally, these elements will be at your disposal in the proposed Regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u230	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u231	Madam Minister, thank you for your frankness. I was perhaps unclear as to what we thought was unclear in committee: if this provision were to be used, what would happen next? With great honesty, you replied that at this point, you did not know whether interdepartmental solidarity would again fund OPEX. That's the bottom line! Admit that this may be a difficulty. I am not really enlightened by the answer you have just given, but it is a fundamental disagreement between us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u232	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 756.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u233	As we have said, France has the second largest maritime territory in the world, and perhaps the first. That's what we're talking about. We have a responsibility and we must protect our exclusive economic zones. Yet today, we no longer have the capacity to do so. That is why the aim of this amendment is to draw up an information report...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u234	Quick, report!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u235	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...on the costs of the delay in the BATSIMAR programme – marine surveillance and response vessel. Today, we no longer have enough patrol boats available and their increasing obsolescence makes the protection of our exclusive economic zones impossible. The BATSIMAR program includes the purchase of 12 patrollers. The Chief of the Navy Staff stated: "Given the wear and tear of our patrollers, a delivery in 2021 seems to me a suitable date to be able to guarantee the exercise of our sovereignty in our economic zones. However, Madam Minister, you confirmed in the expanded commission that according to the Department of Armed Forces, delivery of the first elements of the BATSIMAR program will not take place until 2024. The purchase of Guyanese light patrollers does not seem to solve the problem of the delay of the BATSIMAR programme completely; This report should give Parliament an exhaustive view of the reasons for this delay and the consequences it will have. Indeed, what are we going to do between 2021 and 2024 to ensure the protection of our exclusive economic zones?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u237	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u238	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u239	The committee had rejected an amendment by Mr Lachaud along the same lines, and in my personal capacity I remain against this amendment, even though it has been amended at the margin. However, I would like to stress the importance of the BATSIMAR programme, which you are right to recall. It is a relatively inexpensive and crucial programme for the affirmation of our sovereignty overseas. However, it cannot be said that nothing is being done in this regard. The 2018 Finance Bill includes two offshore support and assistance buildings, BSAH, the command of a multi-mission building, B2M, which will have Fort-de-France for anchoring port, and a light Guyanese patroller. A first effort is therefore being made. In addition, in the context of the discussion of the next military programming law, certain programs will have to be accelerated, and BATSIMAR may indeed seem to be quite appropriate because it will have to be adapted to particular environments. You are therefore right to wish this topic to be addressed in the discussion. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u240	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u241	Madam President, honourable Member, I would like to answer in two points. Firstly, the BATSIMAR programme is still at the orientation stage. DGA is in the process of analyzing and evaluating the proposed options in order to find the solution that is best suited to the needs of the Navy. It would therefore be more appropriate to talk about an even distant delivery horizon rather than a delay with respect to a time frame that does not exist. What is certain, however, as I mentioned in the enlarged committee, is that under the BATSIMAR programme, we anticipated the launch of the four multi-mission buildings that were ordered in 2013. In addition, after the two Guyanese light patrollers commanded in 2014 joined Guyana in 2017, we ordered a third. We thus answer some outstanding questions. I repeat: the BATSIMAR programme will be implemented; It will be consolidated under the next military programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u242	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u243	Members of the Republican Group will vote for this amendment. We have taken note of the explanations given by the Minister. However, we believe that this amendment would allow us to take date. We all share two convictions in this House. The first is that it is essential to defend and enhance our maritime domain. We have the second exclusive economic zone: we must not stop remembering it. The second is that this maritime space is for the moment poorly guarded, poorly defended, and therefore looted. That was why the Government should be encouraged to take the time to speed up the implementation of protective measures. We will therefore vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u244	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u245	I thank Mr de la Verpillière for supporting this amendment. Minister, I would like to remove the word "delay" that I used with respect to the BATSIMAR program. Nevertheless, deliveries do not take place according to the tempo that the National Navy would like: there is therefore a problem. You tell us: we'll see that when we look at the military programming bill. All right, then let's take a date. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] But this does not prevent you from giving the national representation a report on the status of the BATSIMAR programme and on the protection of our exclusive economic zone. By giving us this report before the debate begins on the military programming bill, we will be able to have a calm, well-founded, fact-based debate. I really do not see how addressing these issues in the future military programming bill prevents you from accepting this request for a report that would allow national representation to discuss these issues in an informed manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u246	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 758.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u247	Nuclear deterrence in our country currently consists of an ocean component and an airborne component. Each of them has a particular function in the general system of nuclear deterrence: we are well aware of it. However, some experts consider that the airborne component is superfluous when the doctrine of employment is strictly defensive. Moreover, France has been working consistently for many years in favour of non-proliferation and disarmament, and it is right to do so. Unilateral disarmament was not a credible option, but the resizing of deterrence was one of the measures France could implement in order to give new impetus to international negotiations. The figures presented in the documents attached to the Finance Bill do not provide a complete overview of the expenditures incurred for nuclear deterrence. The opinion of the Special Rapporteur on the operational budget for defence, which has only been available since yesterday, and which I consulted with attention – as he had advised me in the enlarged committee – also does not provide enough information to inform the debate: he merely transcribes the remarks of the Chief of the Air Staff, who are quoted word for word in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The complementarity of the two components is not obvious, contrary to what some claim. The removal of the airborne component is a possibility. It could be part of a diplomatic strategy for disarmament; There is still a need for specific elements in order to judge the appropriateness of abolishing this component. In order to distinguish between the costs incurred for each component and to estimate the costs of a dismantling operation carried out in optimal security conditions, budgetary elements are needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u249	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u250	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u251	The debate on the airborne component of deterrence is recurring. For the most part, I believe that he is now behind us. There are strong reasons for this, which I have already mentioned in committee, and which I will remind you here. The only advantage of abolishing the airborne component, in the minds of those who defend it, is that it would save money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u252	I just told you the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u253	But the means of deterrence are largely dual. The budgetary constraints are not the same: therefore, there is not so much money to be saved in this area. That is the question of the cost of the airborne component. Regarding its complementarity with the ocean component, it seems obvious to me: one is invisible – as you said – while the other wants to be visible, to enter into a kind of dialogue of deterrence. This is essential to our position in this area. Finally, as the Strategic Review of Defence and National Security has shown, uncertainties about future technological changes and their speed call for some caution. In this regard, retaining both components is to preserve our deterrence in the event that the credibility of any of the components is called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u254	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u255	To be honest, your request for a report by this amendment does not make much sense. All conventional and strategic air forces conduct operations in an integrated, joint manner. Thus, know that the aircraft that was recently damaged on the air base projected in Chad was a Mirage 2000N, which participates in our operations in the Sahel. In the same vein, we should be aware that our refuellers are carrying out tasks both in the context of nuclear deterrence and of external operations. A nuclear raid would also require the mobilization of elements of conventional forces. I would like to reiterate the commitment of most of my colleagues to maintaining the two components of deterrence. I think this debate has been decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u257	Mr President, I am not in favour of this amendment for a number of reasons. First of all, the reasons for the need to maintain the two components of nuclear deterrence were reiterated by Messrs. rapporteurs; I do not think it is necessary to present them further this evening in the context of this budgetary debate. On the other hand, this debate would have its full place in the context of the review of the military programming bill. Then you asked me for the necessary information to assess the amount of money allocated to this component. In this connection, I would point out that information is already contained in the budget documents, at the level of actions and sub-actions, in particular sub-actions 06.17, 06.19 and 06.22. All these details are given, of course, within the limits of the protection of the secrecy of national defence. Substantial elements have therefore already been provided on this point. Finally, I think that this debate deserves to be addressed in a way other than when we consider an amendment to a finance bill at midnight forty! But do not conclude that this issue is not important to me – quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u258	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u259	The minister replied to our colleague Lachaud on the proper budgetary aspect of her question. I would like to add one element to refute the fact that this component is now superfluous. For strategic reasons, we cannot agree with the spirit of your amendment. The dismantling of the airborne component would undermine the credibility of our deterrence, which is one of its most important principles – this has already been said. The visibility of this component allows us to demonstrate our political determination to act. In addition, it has many advantages in terms of scope, precision, mode of penetration, control of effects. In addition to budgetary matters, all these aspects seem essential to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u260	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u261	You can see that this is a debate – I thank my colleagues in the Republican Group for having stressed this – on the use of nuclear weapons. For our part, we consider it a strict deterrent, and therefore a second strike. But for a second strike, only the naval component is useful. Minister, I am not proposing to remove the airborne component at midnight forty in this debate: I am simply asking you for a report so that we can consider this issue when we consider the next military programming bill. I believe that this debate is not behind us: no debate is finally decided, let alone on defence. The Maginot line, too, had made it possible to decide a lot of debates: we saw the result! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I believe that we must continually examine our military capabilities and objectives. One of our most important diplomatic objectives must be peace, and to achieve it we must denuclearize the world. This requires international negotiations, and to be credible in these negotiations, in order to be able to ask Russia, the United States and China to reduce their nuclear arsenal, France must be able to reduce its nuclear arsenal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u262	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 759.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u263	By this amendment, we call for a report on the budgetary impact of the use of private providers to ensure the security of military right-of-way. The report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Ménard and Viollet of February 2012 unequivocally called for support for the activities of private military companies. Five years later, we believe it is necessary to take stock of this decision. This is particularly important for the safety of military right-of-way and commercial vessels. The president of the national union of security companies was pleased that "all barracks, like the Military School, are guarded by private security companies". In addition, according to the Ministry of Armed Forces, 30% of commercial ships board SMP-ESSD teams – private military companies or security and defence companies – for lack of adequate state protection. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] What is the real cost of this decision? Would it not be less expensive to simply increase the military budget to hire additional personnel? It therefore seems to us that a report on this point is not only necessary, but also urgent, for national representation to be able to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u264	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u265	A report that would focus on private military companies, without any perspective on the reform of defence bases, would not answer the questions. Parliament will have to debate the military programming bill in the first half of 2018. On this occasion, the Ministry of the Armed Forces will provide all the necessary elements to inform our discussions. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u267	Madam Member, I think I can tell you that the Department of Armed Forces does not use the services of private military companies. We may have to use the services of private companies, but not military companies. I would also like to point out that in the annual performance report annexed to the finance bill there is information on budgetary expenditure on outsourcing contracts benefiting private companies. The Government's opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u268	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 761.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u269	With this amendment, we are asking for an information report on the possible financial origins of the delay in the implementation of the A400M construction programme. My colleague Bastien Lachaud mentioned earlier, in a brilliant speech, the very good – and nevertheless very alarming – report made last March by our colleague François Cornut-Gentille. The share of air transport in the additional cost of OPEX is 14%. Heritage capacity, that is, the aircraft that France owns, covers only a quarter of the needs, and this figure may fall further during the deployment period, as in 2013, to 7.4%. And the situation of tactical transport is hardly more reassuring. All of this places us in the dependency of foreign forces and private entities, and involves very poorly controlled expenditures on contracts under conditions that pose questions, as evidenced by recent searches at the staff. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Even if this device cannot be the miracle solution, it is obvious that delivery in time of the A400M would of course have changed the situation. It is therefore important to know whether the rhetoric of good management that has prevailed for too many years has not, contrary to the stated objectives, created all sorts of additional costs, and whether the concern for pro-European signage, which has largely determined the launch of this project, deserves so much effort from the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u271	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u273	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u274	Mrs Severine Gipson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u275	Rather than insisting on what is wrong, let us first insist on what is going on: the A400M is the best transport aircraft in the world because it is the only one of this size with tactical and strategic capabilities. Moreover, it is European and in service in several air forces, including ours, and works very well in the opinion of the operators that I met with my colleagues from the Defence Committee at the summer defence university in Toulon – the operations carried out following the passage of cyclone Irma prove this. As for reporting on the causes of the delay, this is a good idea that our Senate counterparts already had in 2009. They provided a summary of information on the Senate website: "The A400M Military Airbus on the Critical Path of Defence Europe". Mr Masseret and Mr Gautier gave all the reasons for the delay – this was a real task of monitoring and information. The difficulties encountered are due in part to the novelty of the apparatus, to the multinational management of the programme, to the industrial requirements attached to it and perhaps also to the industrialist himself. As for the budgetary consequences of the delay, they were mentioned in the information report by Mr. Auban, Reiner and Gautier in 2012. Their work was also salutary. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] In conclusion, like you, Mrs Fiat, I hope that the lessons learned from the delay in the programme will be learned, but they have already been learned in large part.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u276	It's 2017!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u277	Mr François André has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u278	Faced with this nocturnal flowering of requests for reports from our colleagues in La France, I would like to make a suggestion to them, especially in response to the latest request.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u279	[[Smile]] A report on the reports!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u280	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] A few weeks ago, the Committee on Defence set up a fact-finding mission, of which I am the co-rapporteur with Mr Pueyo, on the implementation of the appropriations of the current law on military programming. This mission is supposed to represent all the sensitivities of this House – I regret that there were no members of La France who were insoubted for its installation session, but it is certainly a missed act. His calendar has just been stopped. You will receive invitations, ladies and gentlemen, if you have not already done so, to attend its meetings. I invite you to participate assiduously. You will thus be able to carry out all the investigative work you wish with the co-rapporteurs and all the other members present, to attend all the hearings, to have all the answers to your questions, which will satisfy your requests.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u282	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u283	Our requests for reports are not at night: we tabled our amendments during the day, it is the agenda of the public sitting that makes us deal with them tonight. Therefore, your argument does not stand, my dear colleague. As for the mission of information on the LPM, do not worry: we will take our entire part, you will know. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] With regard to the reports referred to by Mrs Gipson, I note that for five years there has been no assessment of the budgetary consequences of the eight-year delay in the A400M on the causes of the delay, and we are still waiting to know why this continues. I do not think that a ministerial report, moreover, would be redundant with what was already done a number of years ago. The delay in this program is a real problem for our forces and will not have to be repeated for other military programs. It is therefore important that we have all the elements to avoid it. This request for a report does not seem superfate. It would complement the work of the fact-finding mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u284	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 764.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u285	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] This final amendment is no less important, and we will spend the necessary time there. The purpose of the report is to provide an information report on the cost of the possible development of a public light equipment manufacturing industry for the soldier. Indeed, while the command of equipment from foreign countries places the French army in a position of dependence on foreign powers for the supply of light weapons, the question remains of the relevance of the abandonment of these production capacities, both in terms of sovereignty and economic opportunity and budgetary rigour. The previous Minister of Defence had raised it himself. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The example of small-calibre munitions is particularly convincing in this regard. In early 2000, France lost one of its major industrial capabilities with the closure of the site of GIAT Industries in Le Mans, which produced this type of ammunition. In order to obtain supplies, the French forces then had to turn to abroad, which entailed a significant cost for a quality that was often inferior and problems of adaptation. The Minister of Defence had taken note of this problem by speaking in March 2017 in favour of the return of a French small calibre ammunition industry. We therefore propose that the Government submit to Parliament a report examining the possibility of developing a national light weapons production industry that would include, in addition to ammunition, the manufacture of service weapons – now provided by companies located in Germany and Norway –; In particular, it would propose several budget scenarios and a comparison of possible implementations by one or more public bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u287	Mr President, I would like to remind you that it is our task to support tomorrow's industries through new technologies – shipyards, deterrent missiles – which we are doing with this 2018 PLF. The current issue is European industrial consolidation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u288	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u289	I understand, Mr President, that through the formal aspect of your amendment, i.e. the provision of a new report, you want to know what are the conditions for the success of the reacclimatisation of a small ammunition sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u290	Excellently summarized!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u291	My predecessor had raised this idea before national representation. And we are going to analyse all the consequences, since everything has to be examined, in particular with regard to the cost of re-creation of a sector in this field, knowing that there are currently means of supply. I do not therefore prejudge the answer that will eventually be given to your question, but we are working on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u292	Do I have to conclude that the opinion is unfavourable, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u293	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u294	Mr. Lachaud? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u295	Mr rapporteur, we are talking about light weapons and soldier equipment, and you are replying to us: 'ballistic missiles'. This clearly indicates that there is a problem. It is always the armament of the soldier who suffers with full force the budgetary choices; I am thinking of the postponement of the delivery of the HK416F assault rifle because of the cancellations of credits. [["Ah! » and applause on the benches of the REM group]] Minister, thank you for your answer. You have understood very well the meaning of our amendment: it was an appeal amendment. We will be very vigilant about the follow-up you will give to what you have just announced, which we believe is very satisfactory, and we hope that you will return very quickly. Therefore, we withdraw our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u296	We have completed the review of the Defence Mission. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-07-O1043.u297	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the second part of the 2018 Finance Bill: Review of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission's appropriations. The meeting is adjourned.
