ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill ratifying various orders made on the basis of Act No.2017-1340 of 15 September 2017 authorizing the measures to be taken by order to strengthen social dialogue (No.237, 369).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u3	Madam Minister for Labour, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge this evening is not to replay the many and intense debates that took place this summer during the discussion and the vote on the enabling law, but rather to decide whether we, the representatives of the nation and the French, want these orders to now be part of the law. For that, you will agree, we need a good reason. I propose one, of which I know it is dear to each of us: a democratic reason, a reason for social democracy. Social democracy, as you know, is a French exception. It makes any evolution of the labour code based on prior inter-professional negotiation. It gives all their place to the social partners and trade union organisations, even before the legislator we are. There are no other countries in the world, except perhaps Italy, which is comparable to us on this point. This principle of social democracy makes all the originality and identity of our French social model, and we are all committed to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that by bringing these five ordinances into the field of law, we are promoting and advancing social democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u4	No! Definitely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u5	First of all, with over 70 meetings and 300 hours of prior consultation with all the social partners, a government and its Ministry of Labour will rarely have so scrupulously implemented Article 1 of the Labour Code and placed inter-branch organisations at the heart of the reform. On the substance of the matter: by finally giving the actors of the company the means of a more important and effective social dialogue, the measures provided for in the ordinances allow us to make our social democracy live and progress. We are advancing social democracy by instilling a new spirit, a spirit of dialogue and confidence in the actors of the enterprise: dialogue between employees, employers and trade union organisations; trust in their ability to imagine the most just and competitive solutions for their businesses. We are advancing social democracy by creating a place for effective dialogue: the social and economic council, a single representative body, created in all companies with more than 11 employees. This body will aggregate all the powers of the former bodies and will have a significant budget. We are advancing social democracy by giving more scope to collective bargaining and dialogue, notably through the new link between branch agreements and company agreements: it clarifies roles, places negotiation as close as possible to the realities of the company and ensures that no company, particularly among the TPEs with fewer than twenty employees, is ever prevented from negotiating and dialogue. We are advancing social democracy by giving more to those who make the bet of social dialogue: more training for elected staff and trade union representatives; the possibility for large companies to set up a single body for representation and negotiation, the works council. Ladies and gentlemen, by ratifying the ordinances and making them a law, you preserve it while renovating our social democracy to French. I know that some of you, especially the most athletic, will not long resist the temptation to replay this summer's game.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u6	Yes! This way!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u7	But in doing so, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we would betray the spirit of our social democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u8	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u9	I will even go so far as to say that by calling into question the consultation with the social partners this summer and by not giving full consideration to social dialogue in our companies, in a way, we would reverse the hierarchy of social democracy standards, which places at the top inter-branch negotiations and social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u10	For you, it's the MEDEF!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, Pierre Mendès France said: "The love of democracy is first and foremost a state of mind. Today, it is the spirit of our social democracy that must be supported and revived. That is why I invite you to vote on this ratification bill and to make these ordinances a law of social democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u12	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the first chapter of the reforms of the Government's Labour Code ends with this bill to ratify the Labour Orders. Campaign promise of candidate Macron, it was held. Persuaded that these orders are in the right direction, our group voted very broadly for the authorization to take them. However, we must not forget how we got there. While the previous quinquennium hurt France, particularly its companies, the right has tirelessly ploughed the ground of the ideas on which they were taken. This work has been accelerated over the past five years. Among the many bills that have been tabled, I will mention only two, that of our group aimed at removing the barriers imposed on companies since 2012 and that of our colleague Gérard Cherpion, who is seeking to simplify and develop work, training and employment, not to mention the many debates and proposals of members of our political family during the election campaigns last spring. Thanks to all this work, I am convinced that the French and French have been prepared for the measures to be taken to relaunch employment in our country. Above all, the previous quinquennium, despite repeated but never held promises of reversal of the unemployment curve, has seen an increase of more than 1 million in the number of jobseekers. That is why it has been all the more easy for the Republicans, faithful to their principle of careful opposition, to vote on these orders, because they are implementing what they have been advocating for for many years. Preparation of spirits, candidate Macron's campaign promise and policy of consultation with the unions were the cocktail of a weak mobilization against these ordinances. I also welcome, Madam Minister, your discussion with the social partners. It is only through dialogue that we can achieve balanced but above all accepted projects. This changes us from the effects of the previous quinquennium: we were talking about social dialogue and major social conferences while preparing for reforms with one social partner. That said, while the social partners were heard and associated during this consultation, Minister, Parliament was largely forgotten or even ignored by the Government during these few weeks. It is not because you have an easy and docile majority, perhaps on orders, that you must forget that Parliament also has an opposition, in particular a right-wing opposition, which is not ideological and is ready to work together on these issues. Even if these ordinances are a first stone, we must not stop there. The competitiveness of enterprises is a necessity. It is companies that create wealth and jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u14	It is the workers who create wealth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u15	I come here, my dear colleague: when I speak of companies, I am of course thinking of company managers and employees, because it is only together that the company operates. The ordinances removed some of this resistance to hiring that business leaders felt. Often – this has been said several times today – even though their order books were full, they did not hire, for fear of encountering a problem, either with the employee or with regard to their development prospects. All too often employees have suffered from this situation. However, this is not the only problem for companies. They must be able to develop in a stable and encouraging fiscal environment, a regulatory environment free from all unnecessary constraints or an ever too high labour cost. These are essential conditions and now priorities for action. I am the spokesperson for this co-operative of artisans of the Vosges whose members I met on Friday, Minister. They explained to me the many difficulties they face in the face of French regulations and its administrative burden: having to fill in dozens of forms, being forced to justify everything permanently or not to be heard by certain administrations are all factors that discourage entrepreneurs from developing even more. We absolutely must find a solution to this problem. Finally, on the substance, these ordinances go in the right direction. I will not go back to that, but the merger of the bodies representing employees, the broadening of the use of the company referendum, the reaffirmation of the role of the branch while giving more space to the company dialogue, or the harmonisation of competitiveness agreements, are all measures that we share and support. As you will understand, minister, we are approaching the examination of this ratification in confidence,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u16	That's what we're worried about!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u17	... but we ask you for your confidence in return, when the time has come to consider our amendments. We will also remain vigilant in the coming weeks and months in order to transform the test for our businesses, our economy and our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u19	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with these orders, we enter into the central area of working life, the balance of corporate relations, and ultimately the social pact. We live in a globalized, largely tertiarized society. The weakening of the family environment and of the intermediate bodies contributes to the transposition of individual problems into the enterprise. That is one of the reasons why we must respond as precisely as possible to the needs of men, to do everything possible to preserve human dignity at work. Many battles have been waged against the precariousness of workers. Many authors have emphasized the uniqueness of things: material dimension and struggle for purchasing power, of course, but also respect for physical and moral integrity, integration of workers with the intelligence of the act of production, fight against the race for productivity at the expense of well-being. In a globalised market marked by excessive competition between companies, between States and even between generations, protective social rules are essential. The text before us necessarily gives rise to serious concerns; It is questionable in many respects. Limiting the assessment of the economic motive to the national sector is to allow large groups to set up redundancies plans, even if these groups are prosperous at the international level. Merging the various bodies, so far specialised in the economic, health and safety fields, is leading to loss of competence. To impose a ceiling on compensation in the event of unfair dismissal is to exempt the undertaking from the obligation of every citizen to assume his or her responsibilities and deny the employee the right to obtain full compensation for his or her damage. To grant company agreements, possibly signed by employees who do not have any trade union support, is to secure the company to the detriment of the employee. Moreover, we know that night work, Sunday work, the lack of protection for employees in telework or maternity leave can be transformed into areas of pressure and even blackmail. All of this carries with it our negative assessment, even if we take note of the efforts made in favour of apprenticeship, legal severance benefits or mobility leave. You're planning branch agreements. We hope that they will not close the door to the possibility of regional agreements. The Union des travailleurs corses wishes to move towards a better adaptation to the realities of the field, to the specificities of a particular economic and social fabric – in the case of Corsica, an island environment with an overwhelming majority of TPEs and very personalized contacts in the company. The same union wants the single community of Corsica to be consulted on the possible conditions for adapting the laws, following the model of the overseas departments and territories. While the legitimacy of the head of the enterprise cannot be contested – he assumes the general responsibility of the company while being the guarantor of its organisation and development – it is important to look at the reality of all human relations at work. As such, we advocate for the inclusion of the humanities in management schools. In the face of multinational management, without any feeling, we would prefer local, social and human management, even if we do not make an angelism: we do not ignore the current difficulties or the harshness of international economic competition. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In conclusion, we note, not without desolation, that, in the world, immediate management imperatives increasingly prevail over human rights. Merchandising social relations is not our political option. We stand in the line of the philosopher Simone Weil, Jean Auroux, Albert de Mun, so many humanists, so many different men and women but who have shared a certain vision of the social question. We affirm that, whatever the economic difficulties, one cannot hide the legitimacy of the trade union act, the priority of improving working conditions, the participation of workers and the social responsibility of the company. Working more to earn more can certainly cover part of the social realities. For our part, we will prefer to work better and live better.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u21	Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following a strong commitment to the French, parliamentarians have authorized the Government to legislate by ordinance. After several months of consultation between the majority of the social partners and the Government, the Government introduced and brought into law five ordinances reforming the Labour Code. It is now up to us, as parliamentarians, to give these orders the force of law. The majority had opted for a choice of trust: trust in collective intelligence; trust in that of the social partners; confidence to produce simplification measures. This trust has enabled the writing of these ordinances which encourage, as close as possible to the company, social dialogue, with respect for the branches and the social partners. This simplification is essential in order to establish a calm and balanced discussion environment between employees and employers. This environment is necessary for everyone to look to common interests. In practical terms, this simplification is reflected in particular in the merger of staff representative bodies and thus in the establishment of a social and economic committee. In companies with at least 300 employees, it will be supplemented by the establishment of a health, safety and working conditions committee. Secondly – this is the subject that has generated the most debate – the orders simplify the rules of collective bargaining, allowing us to get out of the ambiguity. This clarification thus opens spaces for social dialogue where until now there were only nodes of discord. The ordinances also generate social dialogue in TPEs and SMEs, without trade union representatives. They facilitate and reinforce the paths of trade union activity. Finally, they make various adjustments to enable enterprises to strengthen their adaptability. In particular, these orders simplify the activity of TPEs and SMEs in sectors whose specificity justifies a more flexible framework. The conditions for using CSDs – fixed-term contracts – or acting contracts, by agreement or by branch agreement, will give sectors whose employment depends essentially on seasonality a coherent framework for hiring. The easier implementation of telework is also a major step forward. Offering employees the opportunity to work in a more suitable environment, it allows them to rethink their working relationships with their employer. All of these measures are important for territorial vitality and networking. They are mainly aimed at TPEs and SMEs, the economic lung of rural and peri-urban areas. It is necessary to adapt the existing law to the territories most strongly marked by the territorial divide, much different from the metropolises, where the laws are built. Thus, it can be imagined that a Forcalquier organic farmer will be governed by rules that meet his needs, which differ from those of a large Beauce farmer, while both depend on the same branch. In order to work in favour of these territories, we still have much to do, particularly with regard to vocational training, for which great reform is needed. On this subject, Minister, substantive work is under way, as we will have to consider a bill on this subject in the coming year. You will once again be able to count on our full determination and vigilance to ensure that this law is also in line with the needs of our territories. These levers will enable us to achieve the objectives that the French have set us and which underpin our responsibility: to act against unemployment, so that everyone finds a job in line with their aspirations and their skills. If we are satisfied with the content of the orders, trust does not prevent participation: during the examination in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have therefore adapted the text by adopting amendments by the majority. For example, the works council is entrusted with all the negotiating powers. In addition, the deputies of the Republic on the move have adopted the non-recognition of dismissals without real and serious cause in the scales of calculation of allowances. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It is in the same constructive state of mind that the current deputies of the Republic will ratify the ordinances in the Chamber to give them the force of law, with the aim of defending the improvement and facilitation of social dialogue, as close as possible to businesses and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u23	Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting today to debate the bill to ratify the five orders submitted by the Government to reform the labour market. To make you very comfortable and to allow you to listen calmly to what I am going to tell you, I immediately announce that I will vote for this text. However, I would like to point out that I was somewhat disappointed by his lack of ambition. Who said: I wish to carry out "deep changes" so that the "spirit of conquest triumphs"; "we have been in mass unemployment for thirty years"; "In the face of this, we must give, in particular to our small and medium-sized enterprises, the opportunity [...] to be more agile, to adapt to the economic cycles"; So "I want simplicity", in fact having "a right to work [to] face economic risks", in a way "pragmatism for TPEs, SMEs and for our businesses"? You recognized his author:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u25	Pierre Gattaz?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u26	... it is the candidate, who has since become President of the Republic, during the televised debate before the second round of the presidential election. I can tell you that as a businessman and now a Member of Parliament, who is fighting for the liberation of work in France, I was excited by this voluntarist speech, which finally seemed to want to give air to our entrepreneurs. Since I shared not only the diagnosis but also the proposals, there was therefore no reason for me not to support these avenues of reform. Indeed, I was and remain firmly convinced that only a pact of responsibility between political parties would free and protect our businesses. On these issues, we must go beyond divisions, as in Germany and the United States, if we are to defend France's economic interests and ensure legal and fiscal stability for our businesses. So I was leaving with a very good a priori, you will understand. However, I've been a little offended since July. First of all, on the method, although I am in favour of the use of this legal vehicle, namely the ordinances, I do not understand that parliamentarians did not have the opportunity to examine the text properly. I am a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which is not in substance responsible for this text, because unfortunately, in France, work is not an economic issue but a social one. I have therefore asked the chairman of my committee to give his opinion on this text, but I have been told that we do not have time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u27	He was wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u28	I have noted, in the text of the ordinances, positive points, such as the limitation of cases of calling into question agreements on grounds of defect of form, the possibility, under conditions, in a few areas, of negotiating without trade union in companies of eleven to fifty employees, or the merger of bodies representing the staff, subject to rationalisation – to be specified in the decrees. However, we could legitimately expect much more audacity, especially in view of the promises of candidate Macron, which led us to see a real release from work. I would therefore have preferred the operation of the company governed by the contract of employment, i.e. at the level of the company, rather than seeing a strengthening of the branches. Because that's what this is about: we actually move from the law to the industry but we don't get completely to the company – block 3 is the exception. I admit that I have really remained on my hunger: while the President of the Republic wanted to break taboos and claimed to want pragmatism for companies, especially small ones, the Government and its majority share the business of more than 300 employees and the trade unions, by implicitly opening the possibility of trade union representation in small enterprises, from eleven employees. To go further, as a result of Emmanuel Macron's voluntary speech, I could also expect the Government to grant more redundancies to companies, beyond the sole criterion of assessing economic difficulties at the national level. On the contrary, the 25 per cent increase in statutory redundancy benefits will increase the burden on small businesses, while compensation will be capped at a significantly higher level than is currently the case in the courts. Unleashing and protecting our entrepreneurs by guaranteeing them the freedom to manage and organize their businesses with their employees, that's what I expected, that's what all business leaders expected. Because this is the whole paradox, it is easier to find full employment when the company enjoys more freedom. It is not by overprotecting employment that employees will return to work and unemployment will be reduced. Some neighbouring European countries – notably Germany, to not mention it – have understood this by adopting far more bold measures, which now allow them to find themselves in a much more positive economic situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u29	In Germany, there are 13 million poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u30	Clearly, these measures taken by the Government will not really simplify the lives of businesses. They may even add to an already extremely complex labour code, which scares entrepreneurs, who will remain waiting for the reform of thresholds, apprenticeships and unemployment insurance. To conclude in a word, good leads have been opened – which explains why I will vote for this text – but they clearly do not go far enough and leave me a little puzzled. The road to full employment is still long, Madam Minister, although, I repeat, you are the first minister of labour to defend the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u31	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, four months ago we voted on a road map. The time for the progress report has come: has the Government, in consultation with the social partners, respected the benchmarks we had set? One of the main directions was the need to improve the effectiveness of labour law. What is the use of a labour code, however voluminous it may be, if it is not read, not known and ultimately not applied? We have therefore included in our roadmap the objectives of simplification and readability, in order to better secure both small and medium-sized enterprises and employees. Another objective was to make labour law better suited to the current economy. Indeed, whether we like it or not, we are witnessing a very important industrial revolution, which is moving us from a mass production economy to a service economy linked to knowledge and new communication technologies. We are moving from a stable context, frozen by heavy capital investments, to a changing world, where technical innovations are permanent and the necessary skills change very quickly. In this context, labour law must be a living right, an agile right. It must adapt to the specificities of each sector and accompany in real time the new needs of workers and companies. It may seem anecdotal but it is a revolution to finally recognize that companies need to evolve and adapt constantly. It is for this reason that the law must determine only the fundamental principles of labour law, in accordance with article 34 of the Constitution, and leave it to the negotiation, the compromise on the ground, to decide how they are to be implemented. In this sense, the bill we are discussing is in line with the third objective of agility. Our final objective is pragmatism, which always favours solutions operating on the ground with dogmatic solutions. This bill is pragmatic in that it protects small and medium-sized enterprises from defects of form or when it opens the door to social dialogue. This consideration of the TPEs and SMEs is unprecedented, which may seem incredible when we know that SMEs account for 95% of enterprises and 55% of jobs in France. This bill is pragmatic in that it proposes a scale known to all and thus facilitates conciliation, helping unfairly dismissed people to assert their right more easily – they are currently obliged to go through litigation. I would remind you that these ceilings apply to 150000 employees per year – those who take the step and seize the workers – while the 25% increase in the statutory redundancy benefit will benefit the 700000 employees who are dismissed on average every year. This bill is pragmatic in that it takes note of the fact that digital has reduced distances and that teleworking therefore becomes a right, allowing employees to reconcile work and private life more easily. Finally, this bill is pragmatic in its voluntarism: by giving new responsibilities to union representatives and staff representatives, by also giving them more resources to train and build their professional careers, it effectively strengthens the union power in the company. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] In conclusion, this great and beautiful reform meets four requirements: simplification, readability, agility and pragmatism. Our right to work is insanely in need of it. But everything remains to be done. This law lays down principles; It calls for profound cultural change. Now it's up to the company's actors to seize it to give it life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u34	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during this general discussion, I personally appreciated the high quality of the verb of Members, but I have to tell you that I have heard approximations and even mistakes. We will return to that during the debate because that is not what I want to talk about now. For now, it is on social history that I would like to return for a moment. Some recalled the great social struggles of the nineteenth century and the first half of the twentieth century, which played a major role in social achievements, including the construction of trade unions and staff representation. As a result of this progress, employees have for several decades a full right to be represented, a right guaranteed by our Constitution since 1946. Why, you will tell me, strengthen the scope and modalities of social dialogue, since it already exists? A minority of employees and employers still believe, like some on these benches, that the reality of social dialogue is limited to class struggle, that economic and social interests are diverging in nature, that only the balance of power is legitimate and that social dialogue is therefore never balanced or fruitful.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u36	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u37	Yet employees are increasingly electing representatives who advocate a demanding and constructive social dialogue. Edmond Maire, of whom everyone, I think, agrees that he has helped promote reformist trade unionism – which he called, even beyond his own organization, "proposition unionism" – said that the role of trade unionism is to take on challenges and constraints, not to submit to them or to refuse them, but to "carry forward a project of real change of society".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u38	And what does Philippe Martinez say?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u39	For their part, more and more entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs openly recognise the need for a structured and strong representation of employees for the enterprise, and express the desire for a social dialogue closer to the realities of employees and enterprises. Why then, you will tell me, strengthen social dialogue through these ordinances? Because we have confined it too long to a limited area or too far away from the realities of the field. This is the heart of this transformation of the labour code: giving its full place to the social dialogue in the company and in the branch to promote the convergence of economic success and social progress wherever possible. This does not mean that interests always converge, but they often converge. Other countries before us, among the most socially progressive – I am thinking of the Scandinavian countries – have made social dialogue in the company and in the industry an essential key to their prosperity, social cohesion and social progress, and this contributes to their low unemployment rate. The real debate we must have in the discussions on this ratification bill is not between those who would seek the economic success of companies and those who would seek social progress for employees; It is the one who opposes those who really trust social dialogue, social democracy on the ground, at company and branch level, and those who believe that trade unions and employee representatives are legally or sociologically incapable of conducting this dialogue. A decree issued shortly will guarantee the social and economic committee all the combined resources of the three merged bodies. The careers and training of trade union elected representatives will be strengthened, as I said, and the Social Dialogue Observatory will, for the first time, monitor and prevent trade union discrimination. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] So what are we waiting for? I appeal to all Members on all these benches: if you have confidence in social dialogue and in trade union organisations, vote this law of ratification! So you will make the law; So you'll make history.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u40	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u41	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 233.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u42	"What one understands is clearly stated, and the words to say so come easily." We therefore propose that you change the name of this text to make it clear that it is not a question of strengthening but rather of weakening social dialogue. We believe that, under the guise of strengthening collective bargaining, these orders are the best way to weaken its actors, in particular employees' representatives. They bring a large number of provisions under the laws of the Republic into the sphere of the professional branch. In this way, they place a great deal of uncertainty on the workers, since their working and remuneration conditions, which they believed they had acquired, can be called into question. Thus, while the laws of the Republic protected employees under CDD against the extension of the duration of precariousness, these ordinances put an end to this guarantee. The duration and frequency of renewal of precarious contracts such as CSDs may be increased. If one sees the advantage for some employers, employees have nothing to gain from it. These orders also fall within the scope of the company's provisions currently in the branch: premiums such as the thirteenth month or the provisioning premiums would now be negotiated within the company itself. However, if it is considered, in accordance with its legal definition, that collective bargaining implies a certain degree of freedom for both parties, it must be noted that negotiation in a company considerably reduces the freedom of employees and their equality with the employer. They can be blackmailed, pressured, rewarded, and can no longer rely on public or conventional law. This is the reality of the company, as those who have been employed know well. Henceforth employees will find themselves alone in the face of the goodwill of their employer when granting certain wage advantages. You deny the reality of the power relations that underlie all human relations. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is the purpose of our amendment: to say things clearly so that there is no semantic ambiguity that would abuse our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u43	Mr Pietraszewski, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u44	You give me the opportunity, dear colleague, to start with a little philosophy. Our two visions are relatively opposite:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u45	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u46	... your amendment contains elements on which we cannot agree since it is an amendment in principle, which highlights what separates us. The philosophy that you propose to us is wary of social dialogue, at least that's what I hear when I pay attention to your speech – it's quite surprising coming from your benches. It consists of believing that only the law protects and that the social partners would be unable to dialogue in order to define collectively rules, principles of action that go in the right direction and are factors for progress for both employees and the company. Colleagues, a company does not advance without its employees but with them: this is our philosophy. Yours, I think, is to think that companies are against employees. As our philosophies diverge, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u47	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u48	Same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u49	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u50	You who want to release the energies, start by releasing your hearing! But maybe we don't speak well. No one says, on our side of the House, that there should be no dialogue in the company. We simply assert that, so far, there was a principle of favour that there could be negotiation within the company, provided that it aimed at an improvement of the law and not a regression, the law being the minimum trade union for all, in order to avoid an economic jungle and fierce competition, with as a variable of adjustment the guarantees and protections of the employees. You're mixing everything. You say that the company cannot be made against employees because it is a human collective. Indeed, by nature, the company is not the employer or the shareholder: it is the human collective. But the human collective cannot be built against itself. That, in some companies, shareholders make workers or rules that protect them a variable of adjustment, this exists, even if it is forbidden! Yet you do nothing to promote labour inspection. You are in favour of social dialogue, but controlling whether or not a provision falls within the scope of the company agreement, the branch agreement or the labour code is another matter! It is true that the puzzle to know exactly what right should be applied, it will be for labour inspectors rather than for entrepreneurs. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This is the world you are building: a sort of chimera of labour code, to the detriment of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u51	Mr Frédéric Descrozaille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u52	Colleagues, you have often protested the sincerity with which you speak, in accordance with the parliamentary debate, in order to convince us. Do you hope to convince with such an amendment? Do you think we will recognise that, on balance, we are about to vote for a weakening of the social dialogue, and therefore we are going to vote for your amendment? What do you hope for here, if not to waste time on us?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u53	We hope for a flash of lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u54	[[Exclaims on the banks of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] I say it respectfully, so let me go to the end of my reasoning! We have already heard these arguments in July. We disagree with you; We do not have the same reading of labour social relations or even of the social history of France. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Let me finish! I'll take care of it! It has been said a thousand times – even on a large antenna, not long ago – that the deputies of the running Republic did not have the right to speak in the Chamber. That's not true, despite everything you can believe or say. I take full responsibility for buying elbow oil at the pharmacy before coming to the Chamber, so that I can raise my arm as many times as I need and thus defend the project for which I have committed myself as a candidate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u56	But the time we spend on our legislative production mission seems totally unreasonable to me:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u57	This is a direct attack on the Assembly! Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u58	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] ... we will spend one night, or even two, considering 300 amendments to a text that we have already discussed at length before authorizing the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u59	It's Thermidor! All we have to do is go home, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u60	[[New exclamations on the banks of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] This is so much lost time for our assessment and monitoring mission, and I am sorry. We represent a considerable audit power: we could quite agree and form opposition-majority pairs leaving the Bourbon Palace to control the administrations. We could do this work of monitoring law enforcement, which is one of our public service missions. Instead of doing this, we debate the same arguments a thousand times, we see the same disagreements and we spend unreasonable time on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u61	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u62	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor for a point of order. On the basis of what article, please, my dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u63	On the basis of section 58, paragraphs 1 and 2, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Our colleague has just called into question, in an open, accepted, repeated way, the fundamental rights of Parliament,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u64	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] ...the ability to legislate, the right to amend the law. I warn the majority: you are in a hurry to release the energies and implement the MEDEF project, but here you are in Parliament, whose prerogatives are guaranteed by the Constitution. If you don't have time to waste, leave, but let us legislate, amend, resist, propose alternatives to your bad project! Otherwise, you deny Republican fundamentals...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u66	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u67	...– a majority, an opposition, a Parliament that has full and complete prerogatives – and you are putting in place what I recently called authoritarian and technocratic liberalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u69	I said exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I understand that this is your project, including when you want to reform the parliamentary procedure, but, until proven otherwise, the Constitution guarantees our fundamental rights to discuss the law, to enrich it, to modify it and even to oppose it when it goes in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u72	I now put to the vote Amendment No. 233.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u73	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. Mr. Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u74	Earlier, someone said we weren't going to do the game again. I believe that we are here to play our part, to debate this law, to see whether the mandate that has been given is fulfilled and whether the result seems acceptable to us. So we're going to play this role...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u75	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u76	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the NG group]] ...and we will not resign. Yes, it may indeed take time; democracy sometimes takes time. In any case, I register falsely against any statement that might come under anti-parliamentarianism, which is all the more problematic when it comes to this House. During the debate in July, we were not aware of the precise and concrete provisions of these orders. Today, we have them; So we're going to discuss it. Earlier, speaking of the ordinances, our colleague Stéphane Viry said: "The right has tirelessly ploughed the ground of the ideas on which they were taken." He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u77	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u78	I agree with that view, which we will probably have an opportunity to verify in the debate. You write the law for idyllic companies, exemplary, as you see them, but the social reality is more complex and the law must also be written for those who are not virtuous. But you leave the field open for them. In your report, Mr Pietraszewski, you write: "The most appropriate level of labour law is that of the enterprise". That is what we call – not you, I have heard – the reversal of the hierarchy of norms, a frontal attack against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u79	On the contrary, it's her handover to the place!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u80	Finally, with this law, which you say is pragmatic, it is pragmatism itself that disappears.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u81	We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u82	A few figures, to conclude: 33% of companies with 10 to 20 employees belong to a group, and the rate rises to 54%...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u84	... in those with twenty to fifty employees and more than 80% beyond. The social dialogue with the employer you have in front of you is therefore sometimes a little more complicated than you say.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u86	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u87	Minister, through these orders, you want to introduce a "flexicurity" system of employment that should be described as "flexicurity." By providing more flexibility to large companies, especially by facilitating redundancies, you will not secure the career path of employees. The latter will be in a more precarious situation, training after dismissal will not suffice and their career paths within the company will be shorter and uncertain. As a result, employees will no longer be able to claim a rewarding career path, enabling them to rise socially. Let us take the example of Réunion Island: unemployment is very high there and it is not with these measures of scarification that you will boost employment. With regard to long-term unemployment, many studies have shown that training has its limits and is not the only solution to facilitate the integration of jobseekers into the labour market. This disconnection from the Labour Code is part of an alignment with European employment policies. The main problem is the lack of account being taken of the specificities of the Member States in their approach to work and, by extension, the social protection of everyone. Institutionalizing trade unions will not strengthen collective protection and the interests of employees. It is necessary to strengthen thinking together and to give priority to improving the representativeness of trade unions, e.g. by encouraging unionisation or making membership of a trade union compulsory, which would make it possible to involve employees in the enterprise. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] Why should we follow a single model of work, based on the practice of a few countries that have deliberately chosen to sacrifice their social protection? It is possible to envisage a relaxation of labour law, but it is necessary to preserve the protection of employees granted by the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u88	Nice intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u89	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u90	Madam Minister, I had prepared a good speech on Article 1e, but I think I'm going to leave it out. She said that we trusted you with the enabling legislation and that we will trust you this week on the law to ratify the ordinances, although, of course, we regret that Parliament has not been better involved in its drafting. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LC, NG, GDR and FI groups]] However, the intervention of our colleague from the Republic on the move leads me to tell you that this is the chance for our democracy to be able to debate in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u91	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LC groups and on several benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] The right of amendment, the right to discuss, the right to repeat the same thing several times if it is necessary to make ourselves better understood, sometimes leads us to improve the texts before us – I could cite examples under this quinquennium. We really need to preserve it, otherwise I fear that our democracy will be seriously undermined.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u94	Yes, it's very serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u95	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u96	Madam Minister, we have often expressed on these benches our willingness to give priority to social dialogue and to expand the place of collective bargaining. We therefore support the developments that you are proposing in the interest of economic development, employment and therefore employees. However, this enhanced social dialogue will only bear fruit if it is based on real confidence within the company but also on other measures, relating to labour costs, lower burdens, simplification, the renovation of the labour code, "flexicurity", social thresholds, and perhaps not going far enough in this area. Article 1, since this is the subject of my intervention, identifies three negotiating blocks: the locked block, where the prime branch; the lockable block, where the branch can impose itself on the company agreement; the block of the remaining ways of negotiations, which is now the responsibility of the company if it wishes to deal with it. On this point, it is true that the balance we want is respected: the industry is thus confirmed in its role as regulator of competition; it maintains a locking capacity in the face of the company agreement; it is required to provide specific clauses to adapt to the constraints of small businesses; the extension and enlargement of its agreements are facilitated; Finally, flexible contracts – CDD, acting, part-time, construction contracts – are confirmed or signed at the branch level, making it the guarantor of the fight against competition between small and large companies in the same sector. At the same time, companies which wish to do so and which have the capacity or usefulness of doing so can negotiate as close as possible to the ground through the extension of the company agreement. Our group has always supported the extension of the company agreement, a tool of flexibility and flexibility, as long as the branch performs its role as regulator. We have in your disposition a number of proposals that we have been defending and advocating for a number of months and years. Therefore, we will support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u98	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u99	On the occasion of the opening discussion on section 1, I would like to return, Madam Minister, to your intervention. It is not necessary to generalize: there are certainly companies where employees are really regarded as collaborators, where everything goes well, where they work in open spaces, where they are very happy. There are also companies where the relations of exploitation and domination are very real, and where it is difficult to live. Coming from the department of the North, where there are many factories, I can tell you that some still live such a reality today. I can tell you the story of Brigitte, who works in the agri-food industry: she packs chickens ten hours a day, with three ten-minute breaks, plus, when she goes to the bathroom, the right to three minutes and twenty seconds to go there, undress, remove the charlotte, get dressed, these three minutes and twenty seconds being counted from her salary. That is the reality of today, in the twenty-first century. There is also Catherine, a production agent in a glass factory: she does the post office, works eight hours a day, is entitled to a ten minute break and another twenty minutes for 1300 euros a month, with a rent of 560 euros a month; She tells me she's working at a loss. This is also the reality of today. It's still Modern Times.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u100	It's like the 19th century.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u101	The relations of exploitation and domination still exist and, if there is a labour code, which has been built over time, over the course of history, it is precisely to protect these workers, those workers, those workers who are subjected to them, because, yes, some shareholders still make the human being a variable of adjustment. That's why we need security...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u103	... and that is why the reversal of the hierarchy of norms will disadvantage these employees vis-à-vis the shareholders and the leaders of the big multinationals – which I also distinguish from the leaders of SMEs, which are not all so and respect their employees. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] So yes, we need a labour code that protects!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u105	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u106	The protective force of the law rests on its universality, the knowledge that we have before it, the fact that it obliges us in terms of rights and duties. When a colleague sits happily, as before, on our fundamental law, the Constitution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u107	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u108	... we can see how easy it is for him to endorse the reversal of the hierarchy of norms. I want to respond, Madam Minister, to your substantive response to Pierre Dharréville. You said that our vision of social history was interesting and that you could even share it – in any case, history is necessary – but that, by referring to history, we would refrain from trusting social dialogue. In your law, in your ordinances, you refused to give new rights to employees. In many examples, when one takes care to listen to the intelligence of the employees of the industry, to hear their proposals – I think of the Fralibs, the Sandouvilles, the shipbuilding workers – one finds, however, that they have ideas to formulate within their works councils, including to save employment or create new jobs. However, in your orders, you have refused to give new rights of intervention to employees in companies. Beyond that, by merging the bodies, you have planed their capacity to play their role of expertise, alerting, alternative proposals within the establishment committees. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] That is why, as I say here, your tendency to value your law by arguing that it is an invitation to trust social dialogue is not true in the reality of the text. On the contrary, you reduce the rights of employees to exercise their power of intervention and, ultimately, the possibility of an intelligent social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u110	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u111	[[Applause on the benches of the LC and LR groups as well as on several benches of the NG, FI and GDR groups]] First of all, I would like to say a few words in response to our colleague from the Republic on the move, who seemed to regard our assembly as a chamber of registration of the law. These statements are all the more bad because we are talking about a text ratifying the ordinances. I am generally in disagreement with the positions of our colleagues in France and the Democratic and Republican Left. Nevertheless, they have the right to express themselves and, as Voltaire said, I will fight for them to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u112	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u113	On the substance of the text, if there is one objective that you have not achieved, minister: simplification. The inversion, not of the hierarchy of norms, but of the principle of favour, has greatly complicated the text. I am well aware that you were not the first to do so, since Mrs El Khomri had, before you, introduced a number of supplementary provisions into the Labour Code which made it even more complex and detrimental to the legibility of labour legislation. Business leaders often complain about the complexity of the labour code, and I'm not sure that your orders go in the direction of simplification. Nevertheless, we are in favour of reversing the principle of favour, calling into question this hierarchy of standards, as the opposition says, because, depending on the context, in some regions, companies must be able to adapt to competition. I am elected from a cross-border department, and our neighbours in Belgium do not have the same labour code as we do. It therefore seems to me normal that companies operating in this cross-border area should be able to adapt to foreign competition, otherwise they will die.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u115	[[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on some benches of the LR group]] It was important to go in this direction, while guaranteeing a framework by the branch, which you did. That is why we are quite in favour of your text, particularly Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u116	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u117	I would like to make two points, both in substance and in form. In substance, you decide, with these orders, to trust economic ecosystems, and we subscribe to that vision. Personally, I think we're moving in the right direction. Two weaknesses, however, have to be pointed out, I believe: the lack of simplification, first of all, because our companies need more simplicity and readability; the heaviness of the charges, then – this is not included in this text, but you are expected on this subject. The country still suffers from heavy burdens that undermine its competitiveness and make it very fragile vis-à-vis our European and global competitors. Overall, we are therefore going in the same direction as you and we support you. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LC, GDR and FI groups]] On the form, on the other hand, I would like to associate myself with all the comments made following the intervention of one of our colleagues from the Republic on the move. We have to go back to reason: Parliament is here to legislate and every MP elected to the National Assembly has the right to speak out, to amend and to make a difference.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u118	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u119	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Madam Minister, you are faced with Members who do not belong to the majority group but who are able to support you when they consider that you are moving in the right direction. I call the attention of the majority group: we are constantly making sincere proposals. However, on other matters, we encounter a wall, an unstoppable obstacle: your overnumber. I therefore ask you to observe our behaviour and draw conclusions about yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u121	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u122	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I have to react. There is a question of dialogue, and I do believe that we must respect it. This House is the place for dialogue and we are fully prepared to discuss social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u124	We all agree on that. This place is respectable, we can express ourselves in it, and it must continue. I tried to take a little step back on this text. Since I am not a specialist in employment, I think that two trends are facing each other: optimism and pessimism; half-full glass and half-empty glass. For our part, without angelism, we try to trust the dialogue, precisely, the ability of men to speak to each other. That is what we stand for, what we hope to bring to life. The Labour Code is our safeguard, it sets limits; This is the law. We will all respect it and we will all be there – I think we will all agree on it – to report possible abuses in companies or agreements that do not comply with this code. The Labour Code is our foundation, we will lean on it and no one will be able to call it into question. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Having said that, we cannot always oppose liberalism and the protection of workers. Liberalism is not a big word! We must trust each other, talk to each other and ensure that employers speak with employees and trade unions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u125	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u126	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u127	Following on from what my colleague Delphine Bagarry has just said, I would like to reassure you, ladies and gentlemen: we are just as attached to the Constitution, to the laws, to the fact that Parliament is a place for debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u128	It's better to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u129	... and we are absolutely convinced that political democracy is indispensable. The small difference we may have with you is that we believe that social democracy is also indispensable. We will spend the number of hours and days that you would like to try to convince yourself that social democracy is indispensable, that not everything has to fall within the scope of the law, that a number of issues can be discussed at the level of the branches, that they are not an economic jungle, as I have heard, but a place for dialogue between employers' and trade union organisations. There are some questions which, because they arise differently from one sector of activity to another, will certainly benefit from discussion at the branch level. Social democracy also consists of saying that certain issues can be the subject of direct discussion in the company between employees and their entrepreneurs. It is not insulting political democracy to say that we must also be able to support social democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM and LC groups]] As regards the principle of favour, to which you are so attached, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to reflect for a moment on the 3 million French people who do not benefit from it, because every month they have to renew their call to Pôle Emploi in order to be able to continue to receive their unemployment benefit, and who are living in anguish. Let us make the principle of favour a reality for all French people and try to see how, with a stronger social democracy, a stronger social dialogue, more flexible and flexible businesses, we can reduce the scourge of unemployment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u130	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u131	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 81, 92, 128 and 236, to delete Article 1. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u132	This amendment will make it possible to prolong the debate, since it is intended to delete Article 1, of which we know how much it will upset the social order of industrial relations. We, too, are optimistic, including our ability to convince you in the debate that begins. Why would there be optimists, on the one hand, and pessimists, on the other, those who trust social dialogue and those who would not trust it? We have to get out of this false debate! Labour law, the prerogatives of labour councils, the amount of compensation fixed in case of dismissal are precisely there to deal with the problems that arise when economic health and social dialogue have not been there. That is why we believe that the law, which protects the weakest and guarantees republican equality, must be at the service of the victims of an interrupted dialogue or a degraded economic situation. I want to take the example of the branch agreement signed by the roadmen. They were right to mobilize and they obtained, by industry agreement, legitimate guarantees in view of the difficulty of their work. But it turns out that statistics on the increase in the number of posted workers have just been published: more than 23%. The road sector, as you know, is deeply shaken by this unfair competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u133	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u134	However, with the reversal of the hierarchy of norms, protections obtained under a branch agreement may at any time be called into question unilaterally, particularly when there is no trade union organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u135	I call Mrs Ramassamy to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u136	Flexicurity should not be put in place at the expense of employees. This would lead to a challenge to their social rights and acquired rights, provided for and protected by the Labour Code. Of course, unemployment in Germany is lower. However, the German model should not be taken as an example, since many jobs are precarious, both in terms of pay and duration. The Ordinance provides for the strengthening of collective bargaining. However, it should be recalled that group and company agreements are supposed to bring about improvements in the status of workers, not undermine their rights. However, the derogations allowed under these agreements could lead to inequality between workers' rights and level them down. Thus, some agreements will provide for more or less protection for employees and job seekers, at their expense, because they are in a weak position vis-à-vis employers, given the high unemployment rate in our country. This amendment therefore proposes the deletion of section 1 of the ratification bill, which would create inequality between workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u137	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 128.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u138	During the debates, our position has often been caricatured or oversimplified: there would be those who trust social dialogue and those who do not. What is curious, with these orders, is that they are at the heart of the disappointment of the trade union organisations themselves, at the heart of their contestation. It's still a symptom of unbalanced confidence at the very least. The difficulty is that you confuse social dialogue with the simple social relationship, two things that have absolutely nothing to do with it. In enterprises with less than 20 employees, for example, trade unions are clearly crossed: the employer may submit to its employees a draft agreement not negotiated beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u139	There are no unions in these companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u140	Of course! But, as in Germany, Belgium or Denmark – models you want – we could have organised trade union elections and strengthened the mandate. But you did not, nor did you create the union cheque. You have made the bet, pretending to trust social dialogue, to bypass the social partners. That is the reality of your offer. Then don't caricature us! In fact, I think we have more confidence in social dialogue and in the social partners than you do. Giving more room to collective bargaining while weakening employee representatives and unions is not modern, it is even rather very old. On the contrary, what we were proposing was to imagine social dialogue as part of the competitiveness of companies. And I do not believe that, in our debates, you have ever heard me question the balance between the branch, the company, the law, or any reversal of the hierarchy of norms. I trust dialogue. It still needs to be solid, organized and dedicated to it. The unilateral power of the employer, the abolition of the trade union monopoly in small enterprises, the use of employment competitiveness agreements, the employer's referendum, the weakening of trade union delegates: all these measures, in fact, do not reinforce social dialogue. That is why we propose the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u141	On the identical amendments Nos 81, 92, 128 and 236, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 236.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u142	Minister, through these orders, you claimed to strengthen collective bargaining. The intention is commendable and we would have liked to see it materialized. But, in fact, you're doing the opposite. What was normally defined by law will now be defined by the branch and what was defined by the branch will now be defined by the company. What, then, is this, if not the reversal of the hierarchy of norms? On a host of topics, such as seniority bonuses, the thirteenth months or, more importantly, the duration and number of renewals of CSDs, there will now be as many potential rules as companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u143	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u144	If, on the CDD, this is the case: there can be 700 different rules, since at this time there are 700 different branches! Then, you further weaken the bargaining capacities of employees, as you strengthen the strong position of the employer side. So far, the law provided guarantees to employees, while collective agreements were the result of dialogue between the two parties. By this order, you isolate employees within the company; you prevent them from organising themselves effectively and thus from negotiating on an equal footing. This is a complete break in equality between employees. For example, drivers or dockers, able to establish a balance of forces, will be able to defend their remuneration conditions, while catering and hotel workers or couriers will probably be pushed, at least so-called social ones. By the provisions contained in these orders, in particular the non-renewal of business agreements in the event of a change of ownership, you will also oblige employees to renegotiate on topics that have already been discussed. The branches allowed social dialogue; a contrario, the negotiation within the company without the principle of favour risks being only a monologue of employers. That is why we propose the deletion of this order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u145	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u146	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As we have already said in the course of the debates, we cannot rely solely on trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u147	What is the opinion of the committee on these four identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u148	On the amendments that have been defended by our colleagues Jumel, Ramassamy, Vallaud and Quatennens, it is unfavorable, I will explain to myself. I think it is important to go back to the substance of Order 2017-1385, which you wish to delete. What's she planning? Firstly, it amends the conventional architecture in a way that is favourable to the principle of subsidiarity, which I mentioned when presenting the text. In other words, while strengthening the role of guarantor and regulator of the industry, it promotes the level of the company, which makes it possible to make, by taking advantage of proximity, the best decisions for the people concerned. The Ordinance also provides a unified framework for competitiveness agreements, where a multiplicity of different regimes coexisted previously, which was a source of complexity. As one of us noted a few minutes ago, the Labour Code was more favourable to law experts than to employees or employers: given the complexity of these schemes, I can tell you that social law lawyers had enough to do. This order also encourages collective bargaining in companies, in particular, this has been recalled, in the smallest of them, by relaxing the conditions for negotiating an agreement in companies with fewer than fifty employees without trade union representatives, this has also been stressed, and by creating, in each department, an observatory of analysis and support for social dialogue and negotiation, in order to accompany the development of collective bargaining in companies of this size – nobody, I believe, has yet mentioned this last provision. If we focus on the substance, then this order is not intended to do without the social partners but to do so with them, because they have a full place in social dialogue. However, in very many cases – almost 96% – the social partners are absent. We simply want to give a chance to social dialogue and agreements in these companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u149	Thank you, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u150	The only way to do this is to consider that employees are also stakeholders in the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u151	That's not true! Take the case of Denmark!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u152	Employees are adults and able to express themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u153	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u154	Same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u155	Mrs Claire Pitollat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u156	No, the hierarchy of standards is not reversed; No, the principle of favour is not abandoned by these ordinances. If there is to be a reversal of the hierarchy of standards, branch or company agreements would have to be able to derogate from the law. This is obviously not the case: the ordinances secure the rules on social dialogue, clarifying and clarifying the division of powers, that is, the framework within which branches and companies operate, in strict compliance with the law. As regards the hierarchy between branch agreements and company agreements, the fields of competence assigned to the branches are reserved areas: they cover the most sensitive aspects of the working life of employees, thus preserving the crucial role of the branches. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] With regard to the principle of favour, which allows the employee to be applied the provisions which are most favourable to him, I think it would be useful to recall that the latter had so far only an almost exclusively jurisprudential existence and suffered from many exceptions. Here again, the ordinances have simplified and secured the application of this principle: where the principle of primacy is affirmed, only provisions at least equivalent, and therefore potentially more favourable, can derogate from it. The very essence of the principle of favour therefore remains preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u157	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u158	I would remind you that these identical amendments are intended to cancel the ratification of Order No. 2017-1385 of 22 September 2017 on strengthening collective bargaining. Through this order, the Government intends to complete the reversal of the hierarchy of labour law norms and the challenge of the principle of favour. In the continuity of the El Khomri law, the aim is to broaden the scope of collective bargaining by generalizing the primacy of the enterprise agreement, which contributes to the weakening of legal and treaty protections. On many aspects, the Labour Code is amended in a particularly regressive sense: the primacy of collective agreement over the employment contract,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u159	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u160	...initiation of the enterprise referendum at the initiative of the employer, widening of the possibilities of negotiation in the absence of a union delegate. Far from simplifying the labour code and strengthening the rights of employees, the text confirms unprecedented social setbacks. Those are the reasons why we are calling for the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u162	That's an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u163	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u164	Some have referred earlier to subsidiarity, a prettier term to say that it would be better to negotiate in the company, as close as possible to the ground, in a pragmatic attitude, between adults, who know how to talk to each other and do not need anyone to settle their daily lives as employees and entrepreneurs. In the sense that you understand, subsidiarity runs counter to the principle of favour. If you were in favour of real subsidiarity, it would be a question of laying down the principle of favour, so that employees could negotiate, as close as possible to the ground, hand in hand with the head of the enterprise, provisions more favourable than those of the branch agreement or the law. It is because it is possible in the company to derogate from the branch agreement or the law that there is indeed a reversal of the hierarchy of norms. [[Exclaims]] You spoke earlier about complexity, Mr rapporteur, basically saying that the labour code was a complicated thing, a huge thing with a lot of pages, and that you wanted to simplify everything by giving the possibility of negotiating everything company-by-company. In fact, in doing so, you will get one work code per company. I repeat: frankly, with your law, I wouldn't want to be a labour inspector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u165	Send Gérard Filoche!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u166	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] What right should I enforce in the company? What part of the branch agreement, the company agreement or what remains of the labour code should I enforce? Especially since, at the same time, you are reducing the means of the DIRECCTE – the regional directorates of companies, of competition, of consumption, of labour and of employment – which will therefore have to tackle the bone, i.e. to reduce the workforce of the labour inspectorate. This is a real problem, as you simultaneously reduce workers' rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u167	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u168	To hear the comments made in the Chamber, it is felt that the dialogue in the company will necessarily benefit everyone, both the small entrepreneur and the employee. I am not completely convinced of this, for an essential reason: nowadays, in our small local businesses, especially craft companies, competition is often made on the quality of the work and the commercial relationship with the various actors, public or private. But we are creating tools that will lead to price competition tomorrow, to the detriment, of course, of employees. However, small entrepreneurs, I think, are hardly in favour of such instruments: they prefer to pay their employees when the work is well done, because quality is an essential issue for craft enterprises. In the end, it risks serving everyone, pulling down the social aspect as well as the quality of the work of our artisans.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u169	That's the government's goal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u170	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u171	[[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] Our group is in favour of employees being able to be involved in the decisions taken in their company. The key word is trust: we must have confidence in the ability of employees to negotiate and in the ability of employers to listen to their employees. We will therefore vote against the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u173	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 81, 92, 128 and 236.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u174	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 127.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u175	This amendment also seeks to delete Order No. 2017-1385. I would like to take this opportunity to stress a dark point of this: the unilateral power of the employer – there is also a contradiction in the very terms, since this order is supposed to strengthen the social dialogue. Thus, a text proposed unilaterally by the employer and then put to the vote may be transformed into an applicable collective agreement. In essence, you have invented a new legal object: the unnegotiated unilateral collective agreement, which is obviously a curiosity. And that's not all: by opening up this possibility, you actually encourage small businesses to do so, because it will now be easier for the employer to reach an agreement if there is no representation in the company. This is an incentive not to ensure employee representation in the company. All the trade union organisations, without exception, flounder this span. The CFDT, which is not the least reformist of them, has even filed an appeal with the Council of State against this provision. With it, 3 million employees will be deprived of representatives. I'm doing what the CFDT says: it's unacceptable! But you had the opportunity to get trade unions into business. I would point out that agreements exist in 70% of companies where there are union representatives, whereas this rate collapses when there are none.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u176	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u179	It is unfavorable, for the reasons I have already mentioned, since this amendment seeks, like the previous amendment, to delete the order by replacing the word "ratified" with the word "repealed".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u180	I call Mr Lecoq to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u181	Article 5 of the Ordinance on the Strengthening of Collective Bargaining creates an obligation to negotiate a method agreement at the branch and enterprise level in order to define the timing and periodicity of negotiations. Mandatory negotiations – on wages, occupational equality or GPEC, the forecast management of jobs and skills – are also affected by this measure. If we are not opposed to adjusting the timetable for negotiations, we do not want compulsory negotiations to be scattered over time, the only limit set in the text being that they should take place at least every four or five years. What is the point of providing for mandatory negotiations if a method agreement can make their application optional over time? I will cite two examples to show the concrete consequences of this measure which infringes on employees' rights. First, on page 119 of the report, it is mentioned that, at the branch level, compulsory wage bargaining could become quadrennial, whereas it was once a year. Secondly, on page 122 of the report, it is stated that business negotiations on occupational equality would take place every four years, whereas the limit was set at three years earlier. This amendment provides for the possibility to negotiate a method agreement on the periodicity of negotiations but to exclude mandatory negotiations from the method agreement, in order to maintain the binding nature of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u183	I am against this amendment because it would lead to a total emptying of its meaning of the logic of the order,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u184	[[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] Think!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u185	... which aims to give more flexibility to entrepreneurs as well as to the branches, in order to adapt the timetable and the periodicity of the compulsory negotiations to the specifics of their sector or company. Contrary to what you are suggesting, my dear colleague, this is not about making these negotiations optional. Indeed, the obligation to negotiate four-yearly or five-yearly on all of these topics remains a clear public policy rule, but these negotiations must have real meaning in order to be effective. It is not very useful to oblige companies to negotiate each year; on some topics, it is better to negotiate less often but more qualitatively. For example, it may be assumed that the GPEC does not require annual negotiation; to know the subject, I can assure you that it would not be useful. The same applies to quality of life at work or professional equality, which must be the subject of multiannual action plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u186	Yet there is work to be done in these areas!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u188	Same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u189	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u190	Allow me, Mr rapporteur, to stress professional equality, which you mentioned at the end of your speech. In this area, we should maintain the provisions in force, rather than reducing the frequency of negotiations. In this regard, we know that much progress remains to be made. I honestly don't think we can reason the way you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u191	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u192	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u193	I would like to know what are the specificities of the companies that prevent us from negotiating every year. Moreover, negotiating annually does not mean that everything will be broken down every time, but that we will discuss once a year to verify the follow-up of the multi-annual trajectory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u194	Yes! We must trust social dialogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u195	It seems that the only point of a quadrennial discussion is, for some, to be less bothered – to adopt a chastised language – by trade unionists, because such a frequency of negotiations is already so unbearable that it would be unthinkable to discuss on an annual basis. I find it difficult to understand the true meaning of this reduction in the frequency of negotiations. It is not rarity that makes the value in this matter. Otherwise, we would pass laws once every five years; We'd be quiet.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u196	Don't be afraid of social dialogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u197	The more we see each other, the more we understand each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u198	Mr Frédéric Descrozaille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u199	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I would like to apologise to all the colleagues I was able to wrestle with or indignation earlier, because that was not my intention. Having the greatest respect for all forms of commitments, whether they are associations, trade unions, or politicians, I would never allow myself to consider amending fundamental points of the Constitution. I am simply saying that, from my humble point of view – I can be mistaken – we could optimize the time we spend on our legislative production mission to be more effective in our assessment and monitoring mission, which I find, after a few months of exercising my mandate, is reduced to grief.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u200	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u201	In the area of employment aid, in particular, there are State schemes of which we all know very well that the effectiveness is uncertain, because they are often dissuasive and illegible for the TPEs. Access to work for persons with disabilities is also a journey for the infernal combatant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u202	What about employment credit for competitiveness and employment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u203	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In this respect, we do not need to legislate; We could, transparantly and intelligently, leave the Bourbon Palace, not ask for reports or hearings, but make the observations ourselves, by questioning the officials concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u205	But you don't think about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u206	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] That was the meaning of my speech, because I respect and admire as much as you the splendour of parliamentary debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u207	He's putting a diaper back on!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u208	He's making his case worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u209	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u210	We have little to do with the discussion of this amendment. I would simply remind you that annual negotiations are still possible for companies, and I think that they will be able, in good intelligence, to re-evaluate things when the time comes. We are therefore not necessarily in favour of this amendment. Moreover, you cannot say that we are legislating far too much and, at the same time – since you like this expression – that we spend too much time discussing this law. If we want a good law, we must take the time to complete the examination of the amendments and to deepen the reflection as much as possible. Even if you are a little deaf today to our calls for discussion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u211	Deaf in dialogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u212	...the law we will be voting on must not contribute to the proliferation of texts but must be of quality. I come to the question of control. We all carry out important tasks in oversight bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u213	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u214	Of course, the organisation of your political group may not yet be optimal, some of you are very tired, but these possibilities of control exist, they are open to us and we can make full use of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u215	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u216	In order to avoid the law being difficult or impossible to control, it is necessary to take the time in the House to discuss all points of view, to go to the end of the subject and to exhaust all arguments. In this way, we will ensure that the law lives up to what our fellow citizens deserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u217	This has nothing to do with tonight's debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u218	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] At the same time, we must invest in our monitoring missions. Shortening the debates will not allow you to control more, but will lead to bad laws, which will make the control mission even more difficult to exercise. We didn't make it all up after May 8, 2017; Some things were done and are still possible. We are now full-time parliamentarians. Let us take advantage of this opportunity to invest in each of the missions entrusted to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u219	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u220	After these exchanges of substance – I am sure they are – I would like to go back to the text, a subject on which I feel more comfortable, and shed some light on the amendment. The agreements signed by companies and the social partners, in particular on professional equality, but also on subjects such as the GPEC, which I mentioned earlier, are mostly multi-annual. The companies draw up plans and plan follow-up committees, which meet to make intermediate points. Mr Bernalicis, that is why it is not appropriate to provide for a systematic annual renegotiation. It is much more interesting for the social partners to negotiate globally because they know very well that they can get more from the employer over a period of several years. However, as part of their work as social partners, they meet with the employer in monitoring committees to assess the gap between reality and objective. For attending some of these meetings, I assure you that they work like this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u221	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 129, 237 and 246. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u222	This order establishes the rule of primacy of the enterprise agreement and reorganizes the negotiation of agreements. The new three-part labour code architecture suits us because we trust social dialogue. We do not assume that company agreements should automatically lead to a deterioration in the situation of employees. In fact, we had already given more room to collective bargaining but by experimenting with this new architecture. We regret that you did not wait for the results of this experiment before proceeding with its generalization. The conflict in the road transport sector has shown that an experimental period is necessary. The social partners have signed a memorandum of understanding to include in the hierarchical minimum wages under the primacy of the branch a number of elements of remuneration, in order to prevent companies from derogating from these bonuses, as is now permitted by the order we are considering. That is why we propose to allow the planned experiment to be completed. In this regard, I would like to point out to Mr. Descrozaille, who has claimed the exercise of the power of control and assessment, that many of the measures provided for in these Orders are re-emerging on provisions voted very recently. The President of the Republic and the Executive have principles on the new way of legislating, but these are immediately denied in the acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u223	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 237.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u224	Madam Minister, we presented you a few moments ago with many reasons to oppose the reversal of the hierarchy of standards, but they have not yet been enough to convince the majority of my colleagues not to vote in favour of this article. I take this opportunity to try again to convince you because, while some are committed to the destruction of social gains, I have no doubt that others will be sensitive to our arguments. Until now competent on many subjects, the branches will see their perimeter strictly redefined. You are the singer of social dialogue but you reduce the possibilities of it at the level of the professional branch. All matters not explicitly mentioned will now come first under the corporate agreement, to which priority will be given. We have already taken the example of the terms and conditions of remuneration and use of CSDs. We could also mention the level of care, beyond legal minimums, sick leave, exceptional leave for family event, sick children or maternity, which will now be set directly within the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u225	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, the reversal of the hierarchy of norms will be a social upheaval. By adopting these provisions, you will push many companies into the race at least so-called social. In particular, you will allow for a decrease in the purchasing power of employees and an infringement of the gains already negotiated by the branches. We believe that widespread competition between employees is harmful for both individuals and the French economy. It is domestic demand that will boost business activity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We therefore propose to re-establish the hierarchy of standards between industry agreements and enterprise agreements as defined by the Labour Code before the publication of the Ordinance of 22 September 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u227	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 246.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u228	His summary is very clear. Today, the law prevails over the collective agreement. After ratification of this order, the company's agreement will take precedence over the branch agreement in all areas that are not explicitly mentioned in the Labour Code, even when it will be less favourable to employees. This is obviously a weakening of the law. In addition, we fear open competition between employees and, above all, a weakening of their situations. That is the subject of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u229	What is the opinion of the committee on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u230	I'm unfavorable. We still have the same substantive divergence on social dialogue. You have a very different way of appreciating the negotiation at company level, which, I repeat, represents, in my view, the most appropriate level of proximity for setting many, but not all, rules. In this respect, I would point out that the Ordinance has strengthened the branch's natural mission, namely to negotiate what concerns the guarantees and comprehensive protections of employees: prevention of penitibility, foresight, health, vocational training, etc. The agreement reached in the field of road transport, referred to earlier, does not in any way call into question the conventional architecture put in place under this order. It provides that hierarchical minimum wages fall within the primacy of the branch, while bonuses and remuneration accessories fall within the primacy of the enterprise agreement. Everyone who knows a little about these subjects knows, when a bonus is recurring and fixed, it becomes an integral part of the salary, which is not the case for other forms of bonuses. The principle adopted in the negotiations with the social partners in the road transport sector is the reintegration into the calculation of the wage itself of elements which were previously covered by the category of premiums or compensations specific to this sector, under the conditions I have mentioned at the moment. The choice that was made was, therefore, to align itself with the new conventional architecture, not to call it into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u231	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 290.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u232	The extension of industry collective agreements allows all employees in a sector to be covered and protected by a branch agreement, even if their employer does not join an employer organisation which is a signatory to the agreement. The Ordinance of 22 September 2017 on strengthening collective bargaining proposes to make the extension of agreements conditional on the creation of specific provisions for small businesses. In doing so, it makes it possible to incorporate provisions which are less favourable to employees in small enterprises within branch agreements. These orders thus create second-tier employees: those of small businesses, who will have fewer rights than others. This approach to the competition of workers already weighs heavily on the European level. This is the logic of dumping, carried out at European Union level, but also on national territory with massive recourse to posted workers. While the effects of this strategy are obviously harmful, employment is not preserved at all and the living conditions of employees are made more difficult every day, you choose to persist. While the President of the Republic in Gothenburg makes phrases on social harmonisation in Europe, you are aggravating social disparities in France. All employees must be guaranteed a common and high level of protection. It is the only way to trigger the momentum of progress that our country needs, which now has so many poor workers. That is why we are proposing to delete the articles of the Labour Code which allow for a situation of unworthy competition for workers in small businesses and others.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u235	This amendment is based on a double misunderstanding of its purpose and scope. Contrary to what you have denounced, it is absolutely not a question of making employees of very small enterprises second-class employees, on the contrary. Industry agreements now take insufficient account of the specificities of these companies. This issue has also been the subject of several exchanges in the Committee on Social Affairs. If these companies are not sufficiently taken into account, it is because they are too often insufficiently represented in the social partners who sit in order to set up branch agreements. The purpose of Article 2 is precisely to oblige the branches to reflect better on the meaning that the rules which they lay down may or may not have for very small enterprises, or on the difficulties which these rules may or may not pose to them. Article 2 therefore does not, in any case, make provisions penalising employees of the TPEs: on the contrary, it aims to take better account of these employees, with all their specificities. If it is just a matter of misunderstanding, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u236	There is no misunderstanding: we have understood very well what it is about!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u238	The same as the rapporteur, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u239	I have before me four amendments, Nos 82, 306, 151 and 149, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u240	The aim of this amendment is to abolish the company referendum, which gives the employer the right to request, on its own initiative, a referendum to validate an agreement signed by trade union organisations which obtained more than 30% of the votes in the last professional elections. If the El Khomri law had already opened this dangerous breach by introducing the possibility of holding a corporate referendum on the initiative of minority trade unions, this text goes much further. There is no question of accepting such a regression in the law of trade unions, which short-circuits them while these organizations are anxious to rigorously defend the rights of employees. We therefore feel that such a provision is completely inadequate. We will never repeat it enough: we must not make available a tool that will too often be used to circumvent the fact of union. Who can believe, indeed, that the company – this issue has been at the heart of our discussions – is a serene and neutral forum for debate? This is not true either from a structural point of view – as we have already pointed out – or from a cyclical point of view. While mass unemployment is very high in France, the balance of power is still in favour of the employer. The weapon of the referendum will allow employers to isolate employees by preventing collective reflection. It is much easier to obtain concessions from individual employees rather than collectively. The referendums held in recent months, such as the one held in Smart, have sadly illustrated this reality. For all these reasons, we call for the deletion of this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u241	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 306.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u242	The corporate referendum, introduced by the El Khomri Act in 2016, is an aberrant and profoundly inappropriate provision for the business world. A company is not a republic: there are no equal citizens in terms of rights and duties, and there is no guarantee that the electoral consultation procedures will be democraticly satisfactory. For example, the law did not provide for the establishment of electoral colleges according to the categories of workers: cadres would thus have to decide on matters concerning workers. This was the case last March for the employees of TEN – the electricity transmission network – on issues relating to the organization of workers' working time. The managers were able to participate in the consultation when they were not involved in the agreement. Generally speaking, since the structure of a company does not allow for acceptable referendums, this provision will seriously threaten the legal certainty of relations between employees and employers. Such a provision reinforces the risk of litigation and is therefore not at all in a movement to simplify the rules in the world of work. We are therefore opposed to this misreading of companies as a possible place of democracy and we are calling for the end of this mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u243	Both Amendments Nos 151 and 149 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u244	The aim of Amendment No 151 is, of course, to oppose the possibility for the employer to request consultation. Under the previous legislature, we had already found that the eight-day deadline was problematic. During this time, the organization that has obtained more than 30% of the votes tries to convince another one to reach the 50% threshold, which creates chaos in the company around this possible consultation. The wording of Amendment No 149 differs from that proposed in committee in order to be able to incorporate the remarks of our rapporteur on censorship, by the Constitutional Council, in response to a priority question of constitutionality, from the solution of reserving the negotiation of the protocol to the trade union organisations which are signatories to the draft agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u245	What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u246	These amendments have similar or almost similar objects, even if they follow different paths. Amendments Nos 82 and 306 are intended to eliminate any possibility of recourse to the referendum when a minority agreement, signed by trade union organisations representing between 30% and 50% of the votes, has been concluded, while Amendments Nos 151 and 149 are intended only to remove the possibility for the employer to request the organisation of the referendum. While giving an unfavorable opinion on these four amendments, I would like to provide some answers. First, the use of the referendum – as I pointed out during the review of the enabling bill – is a second chance for negotiation. I haven't changed my mind since. I would remind you that the referendum was introduced by the law of 8 August 2016 in response to the introduction of the majority agreement, since this new method of validation of the agreements could raise fears of a social blockage in certain situations. I am therefore, of course, against the removal of this mechanism, which can prove its worth in the context of the generalisation of the majority agreement, which, as you know, will take place on 1 May 2018 thanks to the ordinances that we are debating today. The second explanation is that the opportunity given by the order to the employer to request a referendum is very limited. Our discussions with many HRDs, which we have already recalled this evening, have shown that they are very careful when it comes to holding referendums. The employer may take the initiative only in a second stage, if the trade union organisations have not wished to request the organization of the consultation or if they have not done so within the time limit of one month. So the organizations have their hands. Moreover, consultation cannot be organised if all trade union organisations oppose the employer's request for a referendum.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u247	It's complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u248	Not only is there therefore no circumvention of the unions, but it is even the opposite: they have the prerogative, since they are the ones who keep their hands to oppose the holding of a referendum. You will understand that I do not understand your concerns. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u249	Your analysis is based on a total lack of knowledge of the trade union community!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u251	Same unfavorable opinion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u252	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u253	It all depends on how the corporate referendum, which we already have experience with, is used. Hubert Wulfranc briefly referred to the example of the Smart factory: the company referendum held there, which was widely publicized, was based on a heinous blackmail, since the company's management asked employees to choose between unemployment or working 39 hours paid 37. While trade union organisations were obviously opposed to such a proposal, employees, by referendum, voted in favour of 56%, for fear of losing their jobs. It was December 16, 2015. What is the outcome of this operation after two years? He doesn't look good. The rhythms are sustained and the schedules are staggered: the employees feel that they have sacrificed a lot without having obtained anything in return. Family life has deteriorated and the rate of absenteeism has even increased. This situation is common in the automotive industry. The competitiveness agreements that have been put in place in a large number of plants are of the same water. You will allow me to refer again to the situation in northern France, the region that I know best since it is mine. I will not make macroeconomics: I would like to mention examples as precise as they are concrete. At the Sevelnord site in 2012, the Peugeot plant produced 95,000 vehicles and had 2,380 employees in CDI. Today, it produces 138000 but has only 1888 employees in CDI. This is the reality: these company referendums, like the competitiveness agreements, aim to produce more by increasing the rates to increase the profitability of shareholders' dividends.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u254	That's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u255	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u256	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u257	[[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the REM group]] Not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u258	What a beautiful prospect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u259	As the Prime Minister must be on the right, it is quite possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u260	Please excuse me, I wanted to go fast. At least my blunder relaxes everyone. Our colleagues in the GDR, LFI and NG groups denounce the employer's ability to ask for a referendum to validate an agreement signed by union organisations that have won more than 30% of the vote. We must be sincere: this article gives the employer the opportunity to ask for a referendum on the condition that all the signatory trade union organizations do not oppose it, which means that some organizations would accept this referendum. Prior to this provision, only trade union organizations had the opportunity to take this initiative. The article, by providing that the employer also has it, balances the scheme. This shared initiative will save jobs. We know that sometimes trade union organisations do everything to block agreements. We therefore fully support this measure, which is likely to save jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u261	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] At the end, it's called slavery!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u262	I have before me three amendments, Nos 139, 338 and 146, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 139, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, we come to a major subject, which we have already mentioned in the general debate, and I will even say a key subject of the order which is being discussed here, namely the negotiation in companies with less than 20 employees. Today, 96% of enterprises with less than 50 employees do not have trade union representatives. In view of this, you make the choice of negotiation without the unions, i.e. the circumvention of the unions. Indeed, you want the employer to be able to propose a draft agreement, not a negotiated agreement – this is important – on any subject, and to have it validated by referendum with its employees. Worse still, the draft decree provides that the referendum may be held unilaterally by the employer, without secret ballots and by hand. Such a process may produce a unanimous vote. This is your vision of social dialogue: that of the opposition between social dialogue and trade union dialogue. You could have made the bet to strengthen union presence in small businesses, but you made the opposite choice. We believe in the need for social dialogue with trade unions. You often refer to our German neighbour: should I remind you that trade union elections are held, in addition to Rhin, when the threshold of two employees is reached? We could have done the same thing. You are also doing the regular process of mandating employees by explaining that it does not work – our rapporteur has repeatedly reminded him in committee – but you have given way to the most retrograde, lazy and fearful conception of social dialogue by refusing to allow trade unions to enter very small companies. All the workers' trade unions regretted this and stressed the missed opportunity, the failure of these provisions. The social model of the twenty-first century, which allows us to envisage occupational transitions and to face the great challenges of the future of the world of work, is based on trust. This trust is not decreed: it is not a belief but it is built. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the GDR group]] In small businesses, you send back social dialogue and trade union dialogue. Thus, you take back to your own account the most eclectic conception of social dialogue, that of the MEDEF and Pierre Gattaz who once told me that, when he was talking with his employees or saying hello to them, he was doing social dialogue. That's not our vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u265	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 338.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u266	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u267	[[Smile]] Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u268	Article 8 of the Collective Bargaining Ordinance provides that, in undertakings with fewer than 11 employees, the employer may unilaterally refer to a referendum its decisions on all subjects open to collective bargaining. The danger of this measure is obvious: the referendums that you want to include in the law are by no means forms of democratic consultation. Employees will be faced with a binary choice: to accept or refuse proposals submitted to them without being able to propose an alternative solution. There is, of course, another risk: that the refusal will be immediately punished, in a form of blackmail to employment, completely unacceptable. The referendum logic is the very negation of social dialogue. It is even the raison d'être of this type of device that short-circuit social dialogue to impose the employer's will. That is why we propose to abolish this so-called new method of negotiation and to replace it with a mandate procedure in companies with fewer than fifty employees without a trade union representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u269	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 146.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u270	Now you make it possible to negotiate agreements without trade unions in companies with fewer than fifty employees. You even go much further by allowing the employer to have a unilateral agreement validated by referendum. This is an opportunity for more than 7 million employees to circumvent trade unions. You refer the negotiation to the social relationship between the employer and the employees, forgetting the relationship of subordination that one exercises over the others. With the referendum, you reinforce the inequality of power between employees and their employers, who are better aware of the company's state of health. You discourage employers from negotiating with unions by referring the mandate to its dysfunctions. But did you at least try to make him live? All employee trade union organisations have indicated to us their willingness to see the mandate strengthened. You prefer to remove it and let employees manage when they work in a small business. We therefore propose to restore the legitimate place of trade unions in the TPEs by abolishing the referendum and restoring the mandate, which in our view is an appropriate response in small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u271	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u272	Unfavorable. Indeed, these amendments seek to reverse the provisions allowing employees in companies with less than 11 employees, or less than 20 employees if they are without employees, to ratify by a two-thirds majority – because, I would remind you, this is the required threshold – a draft agreement submitted by the employer. You speak of a referendum because employees are faced with a binary choice, but it is in fact a consultation of employees, the term "referendum" being reserved for a specific framework. Employees always have the option of simply repealing the draft agreement submitted by the employer, through their vote, if they decide not to ratify it. They have every freedom to vote outside the presence of the employer – that is what is planned. Similarly, they may decide to discuss with each other the provisions of this proposal for an agreement, and even to extend their discussion the following day, since they have 15 days to decide. They have the freedom to organize as they wish before rendering their verdict to their employer. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I hear about a referendum by show of hands. Not at all! This is not what is written in the decree, nor in the ordinance. That you do not approve of this measure, I can hear it, but that you denature it by presenting it inaccurately, I find it unacceptable. I would prefer you to share your disagreement with me without distorting this provision: once again, it is not a stand-alone referendum. Furthermore, in order to take a step backwards on this subject, I would like to stress the role that the observatories will play. We have not talked about this at the moment: I have understood that they have not aroused much interest on the benches of the left part of our Chamber, and that is a shame because I believe in it a lot. These observatories are intended to accompany the social dialogue,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u273	An observatory of poverty, for example?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u274	... especially in small businesses, which can make use of this possibility. It is not a question of solving situations of confrontation – even though I understand that you do not imagine that everything is confrontation – or of tension or conflict, but of allowing employees to think together, without being in the eyes of the employer, under conditions that they will determine together, quite simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u276	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u277	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u278	Mr rapporteur, you have probably worked in large companies and not in small ones. Let me tell you about my experience. When I was a candidate for a staff delegate in a 48-employee company, my employer asked the question: "Is it necessary to vote by secret ballot? » When you are an employee, it is difficult to answer "yes" to this question from your boss: your answer is already perceived as a lack of confidence, it is already considered suspicious.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u280	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] It is therefore necessary for the law to clearly determine the arrangements for organizing the consultation. It is necessary to specify that the vote must be held in secret ballots, to grid things, because the balance of power in these small enterprises is always unfavourable to the employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u282	It's like the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u283	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u284	We need to be realistic. In fact, there is little or no union representation in small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u285	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u286	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u287	Which people are best placed to make decisions in the company? These are the employees and the boss. Thank God there is no conflict in every company!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u288	You don't know the situation of all the companies in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u289	I have some hindsight on this issue. I also ran a company with an employee in charge, so I know the mandate procedure, but also its limitations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u290	That's your point! I knew it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u291	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the REM group]] Finally, we are considering a bill that will allow for a real social dialogue of proximity and responsibility. Let's vote for this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u292	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u293	Let me add to Mr Cherpion's remarks: we both have the advantage of having known the company on the employees' side and on the entrepreneurs' side. There is no union representativeness in small structures: it is reality, and you know it very well. The problem with small structures is that there is an intrinsic link between the employee and the entrepreneur – I am talking about entrepreneurs rather than business structures. Both need to walk hand in hand to move forward,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u294	You know very well that there is no equality between the two sides!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u295	[[Exclaims on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] ... failing which the structure flows. The authors of these amendments are trying to make us believe that employees would be unable to assume their responsibilities and decide how to improve their future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u296	Stop! You're not serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u297	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] When we listen to you, we have the impression that all entrepreneurs do only one thing: they would try to deteriorate the quality of life of their own employees. Go for a walk in the field, and you'll realize that's not the reality. In fact, employees in small structures cannot negotiate with their employers and are therefore unable to improve their working conditions – that is what they are telling us on the ground. Let us finally give them the opportunity to deal with the issues that concern them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u298	When everything goes well, the dialogue is informal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u299	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u300	[["Ah!" on several benches of the LR group]] I agree with some of our colleagues in the Republican Group. Of course, France has beautiful companies in which there is a social dialogue, and fortunately.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u301	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u302	We want to talk about companies, whether they are TPEs, SMEs or large companies, where this is going wrong. For example, according to the Labour Code, it is strictly forbidden to ask a woman, during a job interview, whether she plans to have a child in the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u303	Yet, it happens all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u304	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] Yes, it happens all the time. I can testify: to me, Caroline Fiat, this question has been asked several times. You may think that I am an exceptional case – thank you, colleagues in the La République group on the move! Women may also be happy with a positive pregnancy test but start crying about having to tell their employer that they will become bad employees because they are pregnant. I am not saying that the employer is necessarily mean, but a maternity leave is expensive – perhaps we should think about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u305	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u306	If we want to improve the situation of employees, perhaps we should first think about guaranteeing their rights. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I repeat, we do not claim that all employers are bad: France has very nice companies. But we must fight against those who benefit from the system, who rely on the number of job seekers to say to their employees: "If what I have decided does not please you, know that fifty people like you are behind the door and are waiting for your place! »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u307	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u308	This happens very regularly. You ask us to go out, but you, too, go to the field: it has been a long time since you were employed in a small business.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u309	They live on Jupiter!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u310	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I repeat once again: this situation does not concern all the companies in France, but some of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u311	When this happens, you must denounce it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u312	I shall put to the vote Amendment No 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u313	We come to Amendment No 83. May I take it that he is defended, Mr. Jumel?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u314	We mustn't confuse speed with haste, Mr. President! I would like to recall how it happened in boxes where there was no union. In many cases, it was branch bargaining that made it possible to compensate for this absence of a trade union, thus avoiding social dumping practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u315	Not all companies are guilty!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u316	Of course, there are small structures where everything goes well, where we are silent, where the head of the company is invited to the baptism of the children and offers flowers to the wedding of his employees. Even so, once a discussion was under way, the employer had an obligation to call on an authorized employee, either from the branch or from a trade union organization, to ensure that things continued to go well and to objectiveize social relations in the company. The strength of union protection can be seen in the intuitu personæ relationship between the employee and the company. You replied, Mr rapporteur, that this was not a referendum but a consultation. However, the arrangements for such consultation are not provided for. Even secret ballot voting is not expressly provided for. It is therefore necessary to explain to me how this happens, how social democracy is guaranteed in the absence of secret ballots. Indeed, even in the boxes where everything goes well, where we are silent, where we go to child marriage and where we offer ourselves flowers, knowing what the employee has voted for can disrupt relationships and even harm the daily social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u317	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u318	For our part, we propose that an effective social dialogue be continued over the long term. That is why we propose to call into question your desire to establish a unilateral and descending social dialogue through the referendum.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u320	A clarification: in listening to Mr.Jumel, I ended up thinking that we had abrogated the union delegate and the mandate in those orders. I therefore reassure the national representation: trade union delegates still exist, trade union organisations can always appoint them and we can always use the mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u321	It is de facto destroyed by the warrant!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u322	However, my colleague, this is not just a joke, because your presentation seemed to me to be maximalistic in that it suggested that we intended to bypass the unions, which is not the case. I make, with these prescriptions, another bet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u323	We don't make any bets!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u324	...I have another promise, another vision, even if I hear your position, and I have told the trade union organisations. There is a milling grain there, as was said earlier in the opening remarks. New bargaining ground is open. I thus bet that with the observatories and trade union organisations, whose site of the Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment – DIRECCTE – will make it easier to identify the one closest to the employer, some employees will want to go to the social partners. In total, more social partners will certainly be present as trade union organisations in the TPEs, of which only 4% today. As you can see, we therefore make another bet: since the current situation is not satisfactory, we must open the debate and make negotiation possible. Let's give hands to the players in the company, to the employees, who are adults. Let's trust them, they'll make it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u325	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u326	Same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u327	Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u328	I am very moved when I hear our colleagues in the GDR Group calling for the secret ballot vote, which would be the only democratic vote for business agreements in small businesses, as in the big ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u329	This avoids retaliatory measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u330	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] It is very good and very moving, and I hope that you will be eager to ask systematically that the strike vote also take place by secret ballot. It will probably be much more democratic than by hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u331	The right-wing deputies of the Republic are applauding! Now they're clearly identified!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u332	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u333	In view of all the provisions that you are presenting to us and the way in which you argue to support them, one could feel that it is the labour code itself, as drafted, which is the source of social tensions, problems and the lack of social dialogue in the company. On the contrary, we believe that it is the guarantee of this dialogue and that that is why it should be strengthened, in order to enable a better quality of work and dialogue within companies. I have the impression that by calling for trust, as you have been doing for a few weeks now – because it is the leitmotiv of your text – you are telling us that we are going to replace the code and the law with trust, which I think is very insufficient. It would be better to strengthen the law, and to give new rights to employees in the company to allow a serene social dialogue, in which everyone can really take their place.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u334	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u335	Where social dialogue does not work because there are no trade unions, there are other paths than that of giving up business investment by trade unions. As I said earlier, Germany is holding trade union elections with two employees in companies – which is what some French trade union organisations are asking for. I find it astounding that you do not question the reasons which lead the trade unions, unanimously, to defy your proposals and to consider it a missed appointment for the strengthening of social dialogue, whereas this is precisely the bet you have made on a continuous basis in the discussions held in July and August. We therefore feel that this trust is excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u336	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 140.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u337	You continue to open the possibility of validating a unilateral employer agreement by referendum, and we regret that. However, it is important to provide for the guarantees, and that is why we propose that this consultation of employees should be carried out in accordance with the general principles of electoral law. I take this amendment to remind the minister that we do not share her positivism and her convictions. The permanent pragmatism that is your ideology seems to us to be a real renunciation. If you were pragmatic to the end, you would not close your eyes to what the trade union organizations say about the order referred to in this article. The CFDT, as Mr Vallaud has just pointed out, has just referred this issue to the Council of State and, in its appeal, refers to circumventions by the social partners and a strengthening of the unilateral power of the employer, as well as a form of incoherent social monologue in small enterprises, which are nevertheless the most fragile. You talk a lot about trust and dialogue, but for the time being, unfortunately, you seem to be guided more by your certainty than by a real willingness to listen and exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u339	Mr Aviragnet, I credit you with conviction more than certainty, and I thank you for doing the same with me. I am indeed basing myself on my convictions, not on certainties – and that is precisely the point of these debates. However, sometimes I too have the ambition to convince you by developing an argument, as I suppose it is for you when you do the same. The Committee on Social Affairs has rejected this amendment, which introduces a degree of formalism into the consultation we have mentioned, because it is, from an operational point of view, incompatible with the size and diversity of the undertakings concerned. Let us take an example, as has been done on several occasions: that of a bakery in the department of the North – well known to a number of our colleagues – and, more specifically, in my city of Armentières. Five people work there. If bakeries are required to respect all the principles of electoral law that apply to large companies – which I have known in a previous life – a certified ballot box will have to be found – which may be possible at the town hall – as well as an isoloir. All of this will have to be installed, and probably not in the workshop. For such an undertaking, this procedure would not make much sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u340	Stop! All you have to do is a hat!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u341	It would be very kind of you to listen to me until the end, as I do for you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u342	That wasn't mean!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u343	Neither do my remarks. As irregularities are still likely to be challenged before the judge, there is a strong bet that a small business will never take on the responsibility of negotiating an agreement, because it will always be afraid of this litigation, predictable if it knows that it has not respected formalism. Now – and this analysis has been done by many of you – in small businesses, relationships are rather simple. I would remind you that, when this consultation takes place, employees will speak out of the employer's presence and decide for themselves how they will want to do so. One can therefore be completely quiet: it is not the employer who will tell them that they do not have the right to express themselves in secret ballots or that they must express themselves in a certain way; They will decide between them. So, in my view, this will be done in a much simpler way than with a structure as you propose, probably adapted to large companies, but certainly not to the diversity of small ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u345	A few clarifications, so that we can talk about the same thing, which I think is essential. First of all, we have discussed a great deal, in consultation with trade unions and employers' organisations, about companies with fewer than 50 employees – some even wanted to extend this debate to companies with less than 300 employees – because this is a finding of collective failure: after decades, only 4% of small enterprises with fewer than 50 employees have trade union delegates. The presence of trade union delegates cannot be imposed by decree or by law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u346	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u347	If the employees do not wish to have one, they cannot be forced to do so. The question is, therefore, how can staff representation be encouraged at the same time and, ultimately, the presence of union delegates without depriving these employees of the ability to express themselves on the grounds that they would not have union delegates. We have taken several steps in this direction, first of all by allowing all forms of social dialogue in a company with less than 50 employees to be possible – the trade union delegate, of course, which remains the priority, but which cannot be imposed, the mandate if desired and the elected staff, now endowed with the capacity to negotiate. If we had not done so, we would have deprived half of France's employees of the possibility of having more negotiations, more grain to grind in the company: we would have made a law for only large companies, without strengthening the social dialogue in the small ones. We are, however, aware of the difficulties faced by the social partners – we have discussed a great deal with them – in increasing union representation in small businesses. Indeed, 1.3 million enterprises in France have employees and very few have a trade union organization, if not the average, the large and the very large. To remedy this, we have also decided, following the proposals made to us, to make available to all business agreements concluded since 1 September. These agreements are now on a website: it is a step towards transparency, which will allow trade union organisations to know where there is a dynamic of social dialogue. They will then be able to target companies where they can try to establish themselves, as it is now almost impossible for them to know where to go. This will encourage the social dynamic, which, by growing in the company, will create the desire to be more trained, to have more resources and to share experiences with other companies, so that, of course, trade union activity will develop. As far as consultation is concerned, I should like to point out that, in a company employing as many as three or eleven employees, the obligation to vote by secret ballot, which involves the sending of invitations, is quite theoretical: it is a very distant view of the company. On the other hand, the draft decree provided for some precautions to ensure that employees' opinions could be expressed in a completely free manner. In this way, we have three modalities. Firstly, employees, on the basis of a proposal for consultation with the company, must meet with each other. Secondly, there must be two thirds of favourable opinions. Thirdly, a minimum period of 15 days must be observed between the time when the company proposes an agreement and the employees' response. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] With these conditions and the fact that we are going to follow all this through the departmental observatories and the national observatory, all the conditions seem to me to be in place to finally allow a quality social dialogue, more formalised, which develops more and gives more grain to grind in small enterprises, for the benefit of the companies, but also of this half of the employees who would otherwise be excluded from this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u348	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u349	The authors of these amendments regret the low rate of unionisation in small businesses. We can share this regret on every bench. However, it is not necessary to block the system, but to ask what are the reasons for the situation. We must succeed in having a culture in the company that leads employees to trade unions and to negotiation. However, with the amendments that you are tabling, we must not penalize all employees in small businesses on the pretext that they do not have trade unions. We must not reverse the question, which is why they don't have one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u350	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u351	The discussion is biased. Firstly, we are told that trade unions cannot be imposed on companies that do not have trade unions, but that is the case for all companies to which an obligation to represent trade unions applies. In some countries, the rate of unionisation is very high and trade union elections are held for companies from the threshold of two employees. It is not spontaneous generation: it is called incitement. When you ask yourself why it doesn't work, you can also ask yourself how it works, and how it works. In addition, when asked whether their employees could defend their own interests, they answered yes to more than 90%. When employees are asked the same question, they answer yes to 45%, while 55% consider that they are not armed to defend their interests in the company without trade union organisations. It is then observed that 70 per cent of enterprises with trade unions enter into agreements, while this figure falls to 40 per cent for enterprises with no trade unions. The real way to strengthen social dialogue is therefore to increase the trade union presence in companies. From this point of view, and apart from a few small rattles, there is no political ambition in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u352	Mr Vallaud, I give you the floor again to support Amendment No 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u353	Mr. Vallaud's in trouble!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u354	We propose to require the validation by the validation committee of collective agreements concluded by non-appointed elected representatives. This will address your twofold concern: on the one hand, the strengthening of the regulatory role of the branch and, on the other, the effective reporting of field information at the branch level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u356	Unfavorable opinion. You are proposing to introduce excessive formalism – we have already mentioned it on the voting modalities. Agreements must already be submitted to the DIRECCTE for implementation. On the other hand, the branches are more likely to intervene upstream – I know you agree – by drawing up model agreements. Upstream support seems more relevant to me than a posteriori validation of the agreements, especially since not all branches are equipped to exercise legality control. It seems to me better to encourage them to define model agreements, to which the TPEs and SMEs can easily refer, than to force them to exercise a review of legality which, in my opinion, is not their responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u358	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u359	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 143.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u360	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u361	Amendment No 98 was withdrawn by the author.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u362	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u363	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that the vote, which usually takes place by show of hands, may be secret if requested by an employee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u364	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u365	Unfavorable opinion, unrelated to my previous remarks. Your amendment seeks to clarify the way in which employees are to be consulted when they are to be laid down by decree in the Council of State – the minister has just mentioned it. Moreover, what you are proposing does not seem to me to fit all the situations. It seems to me better to leave it to the employer, in consultation with the employees, to decide on the arrangements for consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u366	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u367	The concern for the freedom of choice of the employee and the flexibility in the organisation which supports the amendment seems to me satisfied by the arrangements laid down in the decree which I mentioned and which guarantee both the freedom of the employee and, at the very least, the possibility of discussing outside the presence of the representative of the company. I therefore propose the withdrawal of the amendment since the decree proposes a solution in the same spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u368	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u369	The rapporteur often invites us to refer to the reality of companies. I want to share the example of a large area of my constituency – Auchan, not to mention it. The law now allows, quite easily, the generalization of work on Sundays – a practice that, in addition to the harm it causes for local businesses, is shaking the pace of life of employees. In the company I mentioned, a referendum was held on flexible terms – students and casual employees could vote – to ensure that the vote in favour of generalisation would prevail. The result was a small majority in favour of the generalization of work on Sundays. Since the secret of the vote was not guaranteed, cashiers who dared to vote against work on Sundays – because they want to take care of their kids or simply enjoy their Sundays – saw their hours of work stunned and their schedules changed, their presence being required at the least comfortable times. I want to attest that, in reality, in the absence of the secrecy of the vote, this kind of situation leads to such a situation. This is also the social reality of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u370	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u371	I am sensitive to what has just been said, but, given the clarifications that have been made by the minister, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u372	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u373	We're taking it back.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u374	Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u375	Minister, you anticipate in the Order that employee consultation will take place outside the presence of the company's representative and after a period of fifteen days. How will employees make the decision to work all weekend to honour an exceptional order recorded on a Thursday or Friday? If the decision comes 15 days later, the order will be lost. I do not understand the embarrassment of the secret ballot vote. It is the most democratic modality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u376	On this point, we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u377	[[Smile]] [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, I would like the vote on the strike to take place in secret ballots one day. There would be much less pressure on those who vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u378	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] You don't even applaud by Pavlovian reflex anymore: it's a class reflex!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u379	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u380	This amendment is of some interest. When a vote is organised, the fact that employees are given the opportunity to ask for secret ballots is also to respect them. As a company manager, I observe that, including in a company with thirty employees, staff delegates are elected by secret ballot. That is no problem. It seems to me logical to adopt this amendment, since it is simply a matter of organising secret ballot voting when an employee has requested it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u381	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 145 and 339. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 145.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u382	After discussing the place of bargaining in companies with fewer than 11 employees, we come to companies with 11 to 19 employees. Once again, you encourage employers to bypass trade unions, opening up the possibility of unilaterally proposing an agreement ratified by two thirds of employees. After weakening the voice of employees in very small businesses, you are taking the risk of doing the same in small businesses. We have not been convinced by the few measures intended to strengthen the union presence in small businesses. The ink of the agreements establishing the regional inter-branch joint committees is barely dry that you denigrate them, as well as the trade union mandate which you do not ensure the development and promotion of. We regret that you did not carry out a fair and sincere assessment of certain devices, to give them their chance and make the bet of trust – since that is what you claim. There were other possible paths. I'm sorry you didn't follow them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u383	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 339.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u384	First of all, I would like to reply to Mr Taugordeau about employees who vote by show of hands to pursue a strike or not. You have to strike and participate in general meetings to find out how things are going. For taking part in a number of meetings, I can tell you that the employees present in the general meetings are in favour of the strike. Those who oppose it do not come. At the end of a conflict, as in the company Nidaplast, in which thirty employees held a picket for four weeks, when the employees decide to stop the strike and resume work by voting by show of hands, while some are in favour of continuing the movement, it is difficult. Employees are major and immunized, they do not need to hide; Some raise their hands, others lower them. Humanly, it's very difficult. You have to have lived it to understand it. Let me turn to the withdrawal amendment that we are proposing. It aims to eliminate the possibility of resorting to referendums in enterprises with less than twenty-one employees. Minister, I listened very carefully to you. We share the regrettable finding of the absence of trade unions in these small businesses. The efforts made in the ordinances to develop trade union presence and social dialogue through trade union organisations can be commendable, including the observatories mentioned by the rapporteur. But, as soon as you introduce the possibility of a referendum, you break all the efforts made, because it will always be used by the head of the enterprise to achieve its aims: if he wants to increase the competitiveness of the employees or change the organisation of work, he will resort to the referendum and there will be trade union organisations. The problem is there. That is why the amendment seeks to prohibit referendums in companies with less than twenty-one employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u385	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u386	Unfavorable opinion. Again, union delegates have their place in the company, regardless of its size, but we see that they are not present in the majority of FTEs. We want to give these companies the opportunity to move forward, to adapt to their socio-economic environment by allowing them to enter into agreements with their employees when there is no trade union delegate or elected officials. You have to give a little agility. You are asking us about the modalities of the consultation and its very principle. The option of consultation is based on the idea that employees can express their views – in this respect, a fundamental divergence between us on the left side of the House, which considers that the link of subordination inevitably leads to an imbalance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u387	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u388	That's often the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u389	With my little experience at the company, I don't look the same way. I would add that the context is changing and the problems vary by industry. I think that when an agreement is presented to them, employees will want to take an interest in it and understand the motivations of their employer. Exchanges will take place. Some employees may have to propose changes. I'm sure there will be exchanges. In 95% of cases, the mode of operation is already that. The dialogue will therefore take place. Perhaps the employees will want to be assisted. They're going to the labour exchange, they're going to meet someone with a trade union mandate. The union presence will develop through capillary, calmly, in companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u390	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u391	Article 2 allows for the circumvention of trade union representation in enterprises between 11 and 15 employees. Indeed, it is at the choice of the employer, and without preference for any of these terms, that the negotiation can take place with appointed employees or elected officials. Moreover, there is no obligation to warn trade union organisations of a willingness to negotiate, in violation of the principle of fair participation and negotiation. We therefore propose re-establishing the priority given to trade unions and employees mandated to negotiate. In the absence of an authorised employee, we open the possibility of negotiating for one or more members of the staff delegation of the future Social and Economic Committee, the SSC. We are therefore reinstating the employer's obligation to inform unions that they wish to enter into negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u392	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u393	Unfavorable opinion. I do not want to be redundant, but I would remind you once again that the mandate is maintained. If companies are used to it, they will be able to continue to do so. That's a good formula.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u394	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u395	In our view, the first two paragraphs of section 8 of the Ordinance go far beyond what was permitted by the enabling law. The consultation of employees was recognised as constitutionally compliant in a decision of 7 September 2017, because it was a matter of validating an agreement reached. In other words, the Constitutional Council did not allow the referendum to validate an agreement unilaterally proposed by the employer. I would also like to point out that the CFDT fully shares our analysis. In their appeal to the Council of State on this matter, its representatives indicate that this provision exceeds the limits laid down in the enabling law. Indeed, recourse to a referendum is only possible to validate agreements that have been concluded in good time. The authorization does not in any way allow a unilateral decision – here a draft agreement of the employer – to be validated by referendum in order to produce all the effects of a collective agreement. In other words, the Government was not empowered to provide that a referendum could turn into a valid collective agreement, which was initially only a unilateral decision. That is why we propose to abolish the possibility of resorting to referendums in companies with fewer than 11 employees and in companies with fewer than 50 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u396	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u397	Unfavorable opinion. My colleague, in your view, it is necessary for companies with fewer than 11 employees and companies with fewer than 50 employees without employees to have no other choice – if I understood the amendment correctly – than to turn to mandate, whereas, as I said earlier, this system has not worked satisfactorily when it is generally observed. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment. As far as the point of law that you raise is concerned, we have already explained ourselves in committee, but I would like to go back to it. Your analysis of the compliance of the orders with the framework established by the enabling law with respect to the terms and conditions of negotiations diverges from mine. I consider that the amended articles comply with another provision of the enabling law: (a) the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Labour Code allows the Government to facilitate "in the cases provided for in Articles L. 2232-21 to L. 2232-29 of the Labour Code, in particular in enterprises without a trade union delegate whose staff is below a certain threshold, the terms of negotiation, revision and conclusion of an agreement". The Government therefore had the opportunity to refurbish the rules for negotiating and concluding agreements in small enterprises without trade union representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u398	We'll let the judges decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u399	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 298.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u400	Article 8 of the Ordinance on the Strengthening of Collective Bargaining authorizes the use of a referendum as a means of ratification of an agreement, even if this referendum is not signed by majority trade union organisations. It is very difficult to make us believe that this order, despite its title, actually strengthens collective bargaining, especially since it does not provide for a threshold below which the referendum would not be recognized as valid. Let's imagine that the owner of a company with 1000 employees has a business agreement that is unfavourable to the employees. Of course, trade union delegates oppose this, since they are trained to know the rights of employees and are there to defend them. As he did not like the situation, the boss decided to hold a referendum. Out of 1000 people, suppose there are only three voters: one person votes against the company agreement, the other two vote in favour. With this result, the employer will be able to apply this agreement to all employees. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We believe that this provision is not good, since it does not strengthen social dialogue or negotiation. That is why we propose in this amendment that collective agreements of enterprise or establishment can only apply if they are signed by delegates mandated by the majority trade union organisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u401	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u402	This is a bit of a technical point. The amendment is intended to remove several provisions concerning the arrangements for negotiating agreements in undertakings with at least fifty employees without trade union representatives. First, the amendment seeks to modify the terms of validity of these agreements. While article L. 2232 -24 specifies that, in enterprises with at least fifty employees without trade union representatives, agreements negotiated by elected officials must be approved by a majority of the votes cast in order to be valid, it tends to make the validity of these agreements conditional on their signature by the elected officials appointed themselves. I am not in favour of this because it is a point that the order has not changed and because the majority of votes cast give the agreement dual legitimacy: the agreement is legitimate because it has been negotiated by authorised employees and because it is approved by a majority of employees. The amendment also seeks to delete articles L. 2232-25 and L. 2232-26 of the Labour Code, which allow, in the absence of elected office, members of the social and economic committee or, failing that, an employee appointed to negotiate with the employer. I am very opposed to the deletion of these articles, which would considerably reduce the opportunities for companies to negotiate, which runs counter to the philosophy of our reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u403	You have your philosophy, we have ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u404	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u405	Two words on the debate we have just had: Mr rapporteur, you have indicated that the provisions we have discussed open up opportunities for employees. You talked about agility of law. Unfortunately, I fear that the plasticity of the right to which you call will lead above all – and in more cases than you say – to a reduction in the rights of employees. With this amendment, we are dealing with the mandatory branch negotiations, which the first ordinance provides for to be recast, even though the Rebsamen law of 2015 had already upset them. More specifically, it is a matter of changing the pace of negotiations. To some, the changes made by these provisions will appear anecdotal. They do, however, endorse real setbacks. Here are two examples of possible regressions. In the field of professional equality, in public policy, the obligation to negotiate at the branch level is increasing from a three-year to a four-yearly pace. Such a regression, when we know the extent of wage inequality between women and men, estimated at 10%, seems inexplicable. In committee, Madam Minister, you have told us that it is not the periodicity of negotiations that matters, in order to make up for professional equality. You, Mr rapporteur, have acknowledged that the measure is a relaxation from what previously existed. Given the need to act on this issue, we do not understand why, in the law, we would relax our efforts on such an important subject. For the negotiation of working conditions and tenability, the obligation to negotiate also increases from a three-year to a four-yearly pace. Occupational equality and health at work are the two dead ends of these ordinances, as these striking examples prove.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u406	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u407	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u408	Unfavorable opinion. When I read Mr Dharréville's amendment to prepare for this sitting, I said to myself that I had neither been very explicit nor very convincing in committee. Not convincing, I knew it a little; Not explicit, I'm disappointed! With regard to sectoral bargaining, the Ordinance does provide for an obligation to negotiate every four years on wages and pay differentials, the occupational integration of disabled workers and the vocational training of employees, and every five years on classifications and wage savings. It shall then be referred to the negotiation to determine the timetable, periodicity and content of such negotiations, within the maximum periodicity provided for in public policy. If no agreement is reached or the agreement is not respected, the wage negotiation becomes annual again; that on occupational equality, working conditions, forward-looking management of jobs and skills, disabled workers or vocational training becomes three-year again; that on classifications and wage savings is re-emerging five-yearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u409	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u410	The subject is important. In consultation with the social partners, employers and trade unions, we asked ourselves a great deal about what was to depend on the branch and what was to depend on the company. It was necessary to clarify the law, which was very confused on this point, and to determine the meaning of periodicity. In the opinion of the social partners, we have come to a good balance between the issues that fell within the branch – those that were locked and lockable, and those that were rather supplantive – and those that fell within the scope of the company. This balance is really the result of consultation, as the text has evolved along the way. I want to go back to some of the issues to make sure that we share the same understanding. The durations chosen are maximum: the social partners may at any time, at the level of the branch and the company, fix another periodicity. By default, if they do not agree, we return to annual negotiation. Why are you doing this? To explain this, I will refer to another subject that is of great interest to me: equality between women and men. I reminded the committee that almost all the companies that have finally achieved equality, which the law has imposed for thirty years but which is far from proven – the situation is changing so slowly! – have done so by concluding multi-annual agreements. In fact, it was by leaving the annual negotiations and opting for multi-annual agreements with an imperative annual follow-up meeting that they succeeded. The reason is simple: when we want to establish equal pay for women and men – whereas we generally see a fairly large wage gap, estimated at 9% for equal work, and more than 20% more generally – this cannot be done in a year. Unless men are completely deprived of their salary for a year, this is not the right way to deal with mandatory annual bargaining. This explains why all the agreements concluded are the result of binding commitments made by the parties on a multiannual basis. Typically, the most advanced companies and trade union organisations ask not for an annual negotiation, but for a firm commitment. A default annual negotiation certainly requires an appointment that at least requires a discussion of the subject. It only requires negotiation, not conclusion. Much more often, a multi-year approach is taken. As such, the text seems to me to be balanced. If he's not unanimous,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u411	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u412	...we have at least seen convergence between the social partners on the distribution between the branch and the company, and between what is locked and what is lockable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u413	We come to Amendment No 295. On this amendment, I have received a request from the La France group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u414	The order we are debating changes the obligations of regularity of renegotiation of collective agreements and their scope. Currently, these negotiations take place once a year. We draw your attention to the fact that under the Ordinance, negotiations on professional equality between women and men could take place only every four years. While wage inequalities between women and men remain at an average of 16.1 per cent today, we believe that a very bad signal would be sent by laying down obligations to reduce them. In its opinion of 8 September, the High Council for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men pointed to this danger. I would remind you that between 2016 and 2017, inequalities have deepened further. From now on, a man's average salary is 440 euros higher than that of a woman. Many associations, collectives and trade unions have warned the Government of the danger of this provision. I am sure that many of you, ladies and gentlemen, whatever your group, do not want to hinder the movement towards equality between women and men. I hope that we will end up by voting on the amendment. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u415	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u416	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u417	I have not convinced Mr Ratenon more than Mr Dharréville, or I am still not explicit. I understand your question, dear colleague, but I know from experience that, in companies, the social partners, particularly the trade union organisations, have an interest in negotiating rather multi-annual agreements, which make it possible to change things over time. Inside, believe me, the signatory trade union organizations are planning to set up meeting points to check that the agreement they have signed is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u418	In fact, they have much more grain to grind when they negotiate this type of multi-year agreements. Far from being a step backwards, they draw a perspective. The timing of the negotiations has no negative impact on the weight of the agreement, on the contrary: you can negotiate every three years in an extremely ambitious way, pursuing demanding three-year objectives. An annual negotiation will not make any further progress. What matters is what you're going to negotiate, and how you speed up the negotiation and ensure its follow-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u419	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u420	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u421	I put to the vote Amendment No. 295.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u422	I have before me two amendments, Nos 296 and 84, which can be put to a joint debate. On Amendment No 296, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u423	The Order of 22 September 2017 on strengthening collective bargaining modifies the frequency of compulsory negotiations on collective agreements, as well as the scope of these negotiations, as our colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon has just mentioned. The purpose of this amendment is to return to the previous situation. This order, which has already partly entered into force, allowed Amazon France to announce last week the spacing of collective bargaining on wages, which will now take place every two years, while that on professional equality will take place every three years, whereas, until now, these two negotiations were annual. This example perfectly illustrates the idea that we have been defending since the beginning of our discussions: if you give them the opportunity to choose, the managements will retain the least restrictive solutions for them and the least favourable for their employees. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This leads to a profound deterioration of social dialogue, in accordance with the principles that you advocate. Indeed, the annual nature of the wage and equality negotiations ensured that employees had a voice, which would no longer be the case as a result of this deregulation. I would also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen in particular, for giving a favourable opinion on this amendment, in order to defend equal pay for women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u424	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No 84, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u425	I would simply add to what our colleague has said that your approach seems to us to be particularly contradictory. In fact, we have heard you say on several occasions that you want to give "mill grain" to the negotiations, but, as our colleague Pierre Dharréville pointed out, the spacing of the timetable goes against this objective. By way of illustration, the trade unions at the Renault factory in Cléon have informed us that the management has just postponed the opening of negotiations in the company, waiting a lot, obviously, for the adoption of your law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u426	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u427	The opinion is unfavourable, for reasons similar to those I have previously outlined. I think our colleagues are confused between the pace they expect from the negotiations and the content of the negotiations. I say again that it is not the rhythm that makes the content. Indeed, an agreement implies the signature of the representatives of the trade union organisations. However, when negotiating a multi-annual agreement, they are rightly demanding as to its content and include appointment clauses to accompany it. I am therefore obliged to give an unfavorable opinion on your amendments, because I very sincerely believe that the criterion you are defending does not allow social dialogue to be created. You are confusing, I repeat, between the periodicity and the content of the agreement; a multi-annual agreement is very rich,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u428	An annual agreement can be just as much!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u429	... and can aim for very demanding objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u430	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u431	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u432	Mrs Sira Sylla has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u433	As the rapporteur has explained very well, periodicity has no influence on the content of the agreement – it must be stressed. At most, it makes it possible to customize the schedule of negotiations. My dear colleague Loïc Prud'homme, you were talking about a company which, as part of the El Khomri reform, had moved from annual negotiations to biannual negotiations, but I would like to make it clear that trade unions are always able to return to an annual periodicity. There is therefore no return to negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u434	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u435	I will be delighted to announce tomorrow to Amazon employees that MPs from the running Republic have said that they could return to the annual negotiations. I think they're gonna love you. I encourage them to go to their management to implement this faculty that you describe. On the other hand, you say that periodicity has no impact on the content of the agreement, but when the frequency of wage bargaining increases from one to two years, it creates a white year in which there is no wage increase: therefore, employees suffer a net loss.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u436	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u437	I put to the vote Amendment No. 296.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u438	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u439	Professional equality between men and women seems to be a consensus in this House – I have no doubt about that. Everyone can only note that France is lagging far behind, as it ranks 129th in the world in terms of equal pay. In order to remedy this delay and to take note of the margins of progress available to our country, this amendment aims at penalising, on the basis of the existing penalty – 1% of the wage bill – companies with more than fifty employees, which have an obligation to negotiate an agreement or to draw up an action plan, but which do not provide the information necessary to enable the comparison of the situation of women and men in the company. Since the diagnosis is a consensus, that the delay in our country and the margins of progress are the subject of a shared observation on all the benches of this House, measures to penalise companies which would increase this delay or prevent progress should have the same unanimity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u440	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u441	My colleague, your amendment, which deals with an important subject, has been rejected by the committee; I therefore express an unfavorable opinion. Your initiative aims to punish companies with more than fifty employees who do not produce information and indicators on the situation of women and men in the company. However, the drafting of your amendment poses a technical difficulty. It refers to Article L. 2323-8 of the Labour Code, which was repealed by Order No. 2017-1385. However, the economic and social database has not disappeared, but its content can now be defined by company agreement. In this case, trade union organisations will not be able to force the employer to provide in the economic and social database indicators on the comparative situation between women and men. Article L. 2312-18 of the Labour Code states only that the employer must update the indicators relating to occupational equality between women and men, without specifying that these indicators must necessarily relate to the comparative situation, since this is part of the negotiations which will open with the trade union organisations on the subject. The obligation to inform the indicators relating to the comparative situation applies only in the absence of agreement, i.e. as a proxy. In other words, the adoption of your amendment would create an inapplicable sanction, both in form and substance. For these reasons, I am unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u442	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u443	Mr President, I am against it for the same technical reasons, but I think it is important for us to ask ourselves whether we have the right legal arsenal, the right tools to finally change the balance and succeed in making progress on this subject, which leaves us all very dissatisfied, especially women in companies. What tools do we have? First, the "block 1" of the ordinances – which includes subjects locked at the branch level – includes professional equality between women and men. This means that the social partners must take charge of it; However, there are relatively few agreements on the subject. In other words, this principle of equality is binding on companies, but its effectiveness depends on the existence of an agreement. Secondly, with regard to the economic and social database, the rapporteur explained that a provision which had changed legal form could not be amended as you proposed. I would add that the information on equal pay for men and women must be included in this database, as it remains of public policy. This is the only exception to the rule, because the other subjects are the subject of negotiation. I would point out that, however, by default, the supplementary information will continue to apply if the social partners do not agree on the other information available to them. I would like to return to the issue of financial penalties for companies. Today, the financial penalty that can be imposed on companies with more than fifty employees who are not covered by an agreement or an action plan on occupational equality is maintained. It may be applied, whether or not the social partners have defined their own negotiating rules. The Labour Inspectorate is actively helping to enforce this obligation: since 2013, more than 2,800 notices have been issued to companies, in this regard, to encourage them to comply with the law. Today, therefore, we have a legal arsenal but, as often on the subject of equality between women and men, it is not enough: it also requires the mobilization of everyone. For my part, I very much hope that, in view of the strengthening of the sectoral negotiations, the social partners will take action. In fact, a negotiation undertaken per company would be too slow: the branches must also seize it in the context of the social dialogue if we are to move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u444	I have before me two amendments, Nos 89 and 245, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u445	The profound reform of the place of collective bargaining, initiated by the El Khomri Act, demonstrates a political will to develop a negotiated labour law, to the detriment of a common labour law applicable to all. In order to promote the emergence of this à la carte labour right, the principle of favour and the hierarchy of standards are to be measured on a tailor-made basis. This reform thus enshrines the fall of the common law for all, to the benefit of all negotiable, with a different labour law from one company to another, opening the way to social dumping. It is a bit like having a different code of the road in each department: each company will be able to introduce rules of its own, derogating from ordinary law, without necessarily having to respect a minimum threshold of global guarantees. The objective is clear: to lower the cost of work at all costs. However, far from simplifying the labour code and protecting employees, the development of derogatory bargaining complicates labour law, while returning to essential social achievements. With this amendment, we propose a measure of social progress: to restore, down to your intentions, a real hierarchy of standards, according to which a standard of a lower level cannot derogate from a standard higher than it is. We reaffirm the principle of favour in collective bargaining, a fundamental principle on which labour law has been built.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u446	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 245.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u447	Article 1 of this order, by reversing the hierarchy of norms, poses an obvious problem. Thus, you redefine in the Labour Code the nature of industrial collective agreements, preventing them from choosing subjects other than those defined by law – the latter normally take precedence over company agreements. If we accept Article 1, an enterprise agreement which is less favourable than a branch agreement could still apply. In concrete terms, employees would lose in pay premiums, in the care of sickness breaks above the legal minimum and in exceptional leave for family events such as a child's illness or maternity. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] So, ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken to us about protecting companies or releasing energy over the course of sessions and television sets, but this article allows only one thing: to empty even more the pockets of employees. France is unsubstantiated in the logic of putting everyone against everyone: we believe that this is detrimental to employees and to the French economy in general. We therefore propose to re-establish the hierarchy of standards that existed prior to the entry into force of this Ordinance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u448	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u449	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u450	Mr Dufrègne, your amendment is based on the idea that the order reverses the hierarchy of standards. That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u451	Yes, that's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u452	In fact, it is not I who say it: I refer you to the three social law specialists we auditioned,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u453	They were certainly on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u454	...of which at least one of them was more aligned with your positions than with ours. Well, even he found that there was no reversal of the hierarchy of norms. I will give you my reading: there is no reversal of the hierarchy of norms, because collective agreements continue to be subject to legal provisions and the principle of favour remains applicable – I had read in the Committee on Social Affairs Article L. 2251-1 of the Labour Code, the wording of which is not amended. I therefore do not see how one can intellectually continue to assert that there would be a reversal of the hierarchy of norms or the removal of the principle of favour. That is objectively not the case. One can criticize the ordinances, but it is difficult to say that a provision is not in the code when it is there. The order does not reverse the hierarchy of standards, but it sets up a new conventional architecture, and it may be on this point that you want to question us. The law is not changed, the order of priority of conventional norms is changed, i.e. the manner in which collective agreements apply, by providing that the enterprise agreement takes precedence by default,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u455	The hierarchy of standards is therefore well reversed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u456	There! You say one thing and then the other!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u457	... except when it is more relevant and logical for the branches to grasp the subject. You have the right to be opposed to this primacy of the corporate agreement – and we certainly have a deep disagreement there – but I cannot let you say that there is a reversal of the hierarchy of norms. I express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u458	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u459	I have the same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u460	Mrs Sira Sylla has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u461	[[Rites and exclamations on FI banks]] It is totally wrong to say that the hierarchy of standards is reversed. In social law, there are three blocks. The first is the absolute priority of the branch agreement. What are the subjects concerned? Minimum wages, classifications and pooled funds for vocational training. In the second block, the branch can, using the locking clauses, consider itself to be competent. This concerns, for example, the choice of the number of trade union delegates. Finally, the third block will release energy and adapt the situation according to the company's pace. As you know, there may be companies of two or one hundred employees within a branch, and the organization of work in the former is not the same as in the latter. I am a lawyer in social law and advises very small businesses – TPE – small and medium-sized businesses – SMEs – and groups. In a group that did not have a union delegate or a staff delegate, we wanted to put in place a company agreement to adapt the working hours within the company. If there had been no derogation rules such as the mandate, we would in no way have been able to implement this agreement. We have to stop talking about inversion of the hierarchy of norms, I just proved to you that there were none.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u462	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u463	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] In no case will an employee have a lower salary than the industry provides, so stop saying, please, that there is a reversal of the hierarchy of standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u464	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u465	Assume what you're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u466	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u467	It's good to do a little semantics and explain yourself about words, because behind them there are always oppositions of ideas. Mr rapporteur, you told us in committee that you are changing the 'conventional architecture' by introducing a 'new order of priority'.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u468	There! Changing the "architecture" means changing the hierarchy of standards!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u469	Doing this necessarily means touching on the organization of standards; This implies, from our point of view, that you have changed the hierarchy of standards. We can do semantics, but we are actually discussing the consequences of such a choice. In your report, you affirmed the "predominance of the corporate agreement". By laying this primacy, you are pushing the sequencing of standards in our country. Our colleague Francis Vercamer explained earlier that the law did not call into question the hierarchy of norms, but did so for the principle of favour – which he welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u470	At least he's in charge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u471	I share his sentiment on the question of the principle of favour. Why? Because, until now, rules enshrined in the law could only be derogated from by making more favourable rules; Today, you question the principle of favour, by downgrading certain subjects to lower levels to allow unfavourable standards to prevail.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u472	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u473	You therefore touch on the hierarchy of norms and the principle of favour, two fundamental elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u474	It's a beautiful demonstration, irrefragable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u475	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u476	Mr rapporteur, you have told us that a person close to us has been interviewed. I wasn't at this meeting, but our collaborator was there and he doesn't know which speaker you're referring to. Could you give us his name? In our view, no person close to us has been interviewed. Companies may derogate from public policy and industry agreements. The agreements they make will therefore have priority, so that the hierarchy of standards will be reversed. You are trying to explain to us and we are also trying to do so, but at some point we must follow the logic of the text: the principle of favour is well swept away, since agreements can, for example, remove bonuses and change wages. Yes, business agreements may be less favourable than those of the industry or the law. There is therefore no longer any principle of favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u477	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u478	I have before me two amendments, Nos 248 and 101, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 248, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u479	Article 1 of the Ordinance of 22 September 2017 on strengthening collective bargaining weakens the protections of the law for employees. It thus removes any legal framework for the duration and renewal of fixed-term contracts – CSD – and acting contracts, for the use of construction contracts, and for the duration and renewal of trial periods. All these provisions, 700 different rules in the French territory, will be laid down by the branches. To entrust to the negotiation of such important provisions seems to us in total contradiction with the fundamental principles of the French social order, based on the universal protection of the law. Equality before the law establishes the French social and civic order. This order therefore denies the republican fundamentals. Jaurès said: "The Revolution made the French king in the city and left him serf in the company. That is what you are trying to include in these ordinances. The negotiation of such important provisions is also in contradiction with the expectations of the French population. I remind you that you do not have a political majority and that the French are opposed to the Government's action on these orders, as evidenced by a survey of 18 September showing that 55 per cent of the French feel that labour law does not adequately protect employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u480	The polls take precedence over the assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u481	Since 1982, the share of precarious contracts in employment has tripled. Today, 85% of hirings are on fixed-term contracts. Allowing the branches to increase the number of possible renewals of precarious contracts will only worsen this situation. The precariousness of the job prevents the employees who suffer it from realizing themselves in their personal lives: finding a home and starting a family becomes more difficult when income security is not guaranteed – you have planned everything, since you want to introduce precarious leases for people in CSD. We therefore believe that increasing opportunities for employers to use precarious contracts is contrary to the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u482	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u483	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau, in support of Amendment No 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u484	The purpose of this amendment is to entrust the management of the use of fixed-term employment contracts, temporary employment contracts and open-ended worksite contracts to the negotiation of undertakings, in order to free the organisation of undertakings and thus to help their competitiveness, each undertaking, in particular small undertakings, having its own constraints and hazards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u485	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u486	The committee's opinion is unfavourable on these two amendments, which are not in the same perspective but relate to the same subject. Mr Prud'homme's amendment, first of all, seeks to delete several elements which the Ordinance on the strengthening of collective bargaining entrusted to sectoral bargaining. We will have an opportunity to debate this later on the third order. The provisions on fixed-term and acting contracts were previously of a legal nature, i.e. public policy; the order provides for them to be opened for branch bargaining. This process obviously does not concern all the measures in this field, since the grounds for appeal remain of public policy. The order is only intended to allow the branches to fix at their level, for their sector of activity, the duration and conditions of renewal of these contracts and the period of default between two successive contracts for the same position. It is therefore wrong to say that all the rules relating to fixed-term and acting contracts fall into the field of negotiation. Only certain elements will be able to raise the margin of manoeuvre of the social partners at the branch level and be negotiated. I would point out that the conditions for the renewal of the trial period and its duration were already subject to an extended branch agreement, but the public policy provisions remain unchanged: the maximum duration of this period remains four months for workers and employees, six months for supervisors and technicians and eight months for managers. The order has therefore not changed anything on this point: the maximum legal periods will remain applicable. As for you, Mr Taugurdeau, you also propose in your amendment to delete the reference to the branch, in this case the primacy given to the branch in terms of the use of the CSD, like your colleague, but in order to give primacy to the company agreement. This is not the choice chosen, which is the result of the consultation carried out by the Minister with the social partners. The choice that has been made is to maintain basic provisions of public policy and to entrust to branch bargaining adjustments consistent with the activity of the branch.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u487	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u488	For the sake of clarity of our discussions, I would like to make it clear that this subject is included in block 1 – the one for which the branch has exclusive competence – and falls under the management and quality of employment, a new competence for which the branch has the power to lock: the rules which the social partners will put in place within a branch will apply to all companies in the branch. These principles follow on from the consultation, and respond in particular to a request from several trade union organisations for which it seems interesting to be able to negotiate within the branch not the grounds for appeal, which remain of public policy, but a number of modalities, in order to take account of the operational specificities, specific to the trades, and to negotiate counterparties within a framework which respects the balance between employees and undertakings where these specificities involve the use of CSDs. I think that this is a subject on which many agreements will be taken in the branches, because this is a request from both sides.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u489	All right? Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u490	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u491	[[Laugh. – Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I have read somewhere, but I am not sure if I have read correctly, that a psychological support unit for overworked Members has been set up. At this late hour of the night, Mr. Chairman, in order to ensure that everyone is operational, I will ask you to suspend the meeting to allow this cell to meet.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u492	Mr Jumel, we are not going to suspend the sitting but to lift it after having put these two amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u493	You're wrong! Some of us seem to need it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u494	[[Smile]] I could suspend it for a minute, but I'm told you don't have the delegation to make this request, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u495	It was a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u496	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-21-O1065.u497	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Oath of oath of a judge of the Court of Justice of the Republic; Further to the discussion of the bill ratifying various orders made on the basis of Act No. 2017-1340 of 15 September 2017 authorizing to take by ordinance measures for the strengthening of social dialogue. The meeting is adjourned.
