ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the enabling bill to adopt by order measures to strengthen social dialogue (No.4, 19, 18).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u2	The Minister for Labour has the floor to respond to the speakers in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u3	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to respond point by point to all the substantive issues raised during the general debate – we will do so on the occasion of every amendment or article – but I wanted to draw up a perspective from the outset and to respond to the points that have been most mentioned by Members. First point, the method. As Mr Cherpion, Mr Vercamer, Mr Lurton, Mrs Rabault or Mrs Grandjean have said, the articulation of political democracy and social democracy is an issue on which we must return for a moment. We have complied with Article L. 1 of the Labour Code as provided for in the Larcher Act, which provides for prior consultation with the social partners. However, the extremely intense and unprecedented concertation in its form that we are currently conducting does not make it possible to have all the details of the final texts available today, which is logical since this concertation concerns, not the enabling bill, but the ordinances. Nevertheless, in order to facilitate and inform this debate on the enabling bill and to ensure that it is as rich as possible, I propose that, as the articles are reviewed, you be informed of the outcome of the consultations, and more precisely what the Government has in mind. As far as Article 1 is concerned, the consultation has been completed; So I can do it without hesitation. As far as Article 2 is concerned, it ends tomorrow; So I can do it that easily. With regard to article 3, the Government's intentions were already very specific. The focus of the consultation is on the terms and conditions of application: they are not at the level of the enabling bill, but I will also say a word when the time comes. These are the three main articles, which concern most of the topics you have mentioned. That's the method. Secondly, the hierarchy of standards. I thank Mr Quatennens for asking the question again: this allows me to clarify once again – but it is very important – that there is no total reversal of the hierarchy of norms and that this very expression is not appropriate. According to the Constitution, the law defines rights and duties to which everyone, as citizens and businesses, is in the same situation. This law is obviously superior to other social norms, which may nevertheless specify, supplement or define fields that are not covered by the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u4	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u5	Mr Vercamer summed up the substance of many points, saying that there was a need for a clearer, clearer, more flexible, more predictable social standard for both the employee and the company, and for negotiation. That is exactly the heart of this enabling bill. Third subject, penitibility. I will go into more detail when we look at Article 5 on which this is the subject. However, since the Prime Minister made the Government's position on the matter known on Saturday, I wanted to explain it to you right now to inform the debate we will have on Article 5. What was the question raised by Mr Cherpion, Mrs Bareigts and Mr Vercamer in particular? While several laws have already defined the subject of penitibility, we have found that there is a contrast between intent and execution. The intention, which is of social justice, we fully agree with it: employees who, having worked under physically difficult conditions, find themselves in a situation of partial incapacity must be able to benefit, as planned, from the full pension two years earlier. It is a measure of social justice and we have never wanted to challenge it. On the other hand, the device designed to define the last four risk factors was a kind of gas plant – forgive me for that expression. Asking a craftsman or farmer to measure every day, almost on a chronometer, how many hours the employee carries heavy loads or works in a posture that could lead to musculoskeletal disorders, it is Ubu who turns into Kafka! It wasn't possible. There was an urgent need because these texts were about to enter into force: as of 30 September, the artisans, the farmers, all the companies would have been at fault if they had not made these declarations in the form envisaged. As a result, they were in a situation of legal uncertainty, with no further protection for employees. You see that this is the type of topic that we will have to address when we look at all the articles. We therefore propose, on the one hand, to maintain all the rights of employees and, on the other hand, to free companies from this completely inapplicable reporting obligation, by outsourcing, for the last four risks, the control of the situation of employees – I was going to say the "burden of proof" – by medical examinations. This will have an additional advantage: we will be able to deal with the "stock" – forgive me the term – of employees who are already incapacitated after years of hard work. In the previous scheme, on the other hand, which was a point system, they should have waited 17 or 20 years to benefit from real rights, i.e. a generation of employees. I therefore believe that our system is even better in terms of social justice. We have endeavoured to find a real solution and not just to postpone the resolution of the problem – it is for this reason that the word "penitibility" appears in Article 5. It is in this spirit that we will be discussing the article and next week I will be submitting this proposal for the opinion of the Governing Council on working conditions, the COCT. The fourth issue, that of very small, small and medium-sized enterprises, has been addressed by many of you, such as MM. Mignola, Cherpion or Vercamer. One of the main challenges of this renewal of the social model is its applicability in TPEs and SMEs. Many speakers recalled that in France 55% of employees work in companies with less than fifty employees. If our reform, however magnificent it may be, does not apply or is applied poorly in the TPEs and SMEs, we will have missed our target. This essential subject, which is somehow a red thread, is not the simplest subject if we want a reform that is not only beautiful on paper but that works in real life. There are two strands. The first one is quite clear and has been mentioned by several of you: it is the branch. This is one of the reasons why, at the request of the social partners, both employers and trade unions, we have finally chosen to strengthen not only the company agreement but also the branch agreement. The examination of Article 1 will provide us with an opportunity to detail the fields which we consider essential to deal with at the branch level. In this context, it is clear that industry agreements can both support and ensure coherence for both TPEs and SMEs, on one condition – and this will be one of the proposals that we will make to you – that the branches be asked, with regard to the so-called "locked" subjects that are needed, whether they take into account the question of whether or not to provide specific arrangements for TPEs and SMEs – this could even be a condition for the extension of the agreement. This will depend on the subjects, but at least there is a need for this systematic examination at the branch level. The second part brings together a series of measures contained in various articles, the aim of which is to increase visibility and hence safety and to lift the fear of hiring. The fifth subject, raised by several of you, in particular Mrs Bareigts and Mr Ratenon, is that of the overseas countries. As I recall, the Labour Law of 8 August 2016 and the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas have provided for provisions on the application of the Labour Code and on representation in overseas countries. The implementation of these new provisions is under consideration by the Council of State. I have asked my services to make themselves available to both overseas Members and social partners in order to reflect on how this enabling law could apply in the overseas countries and territories, under what conditions and within what time frame, in line with the law on real equality overseas. The sixth general subject, which may be the heart of this bill, is social dialogue. Mr. Mignola and Mr. Taché discussed this at length. This "decentralization" of social dialogue, some say, is essential. The law is a guardian of fundamental rights, but strengthening contractual capacity as close to the ground as possible to those concerned, employees and companies, at the branch and company level, is a key element. In most cases, employees and enterprises have converging interests. A business that is doing well can share wealth and can hire and a business is doing well if it invests in its human capital and social relations. I would also like to thank you, Mr Quatennens, for clarifying your position, saying, in a rather surprising way, "social dialogue is a mess."
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u6	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u7	I note that you do not believe in social dialogue, which, I admit, surprised me, because it means that you do not believe in the representation of employees provided for in the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u8	And you don't even believe what you're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] That you are "anti-patron" is not a surprise but that you are "anti-union" and therefore "social anti-dialogue" I did not expect. When we know that more than 80% of company agreements are signed by trade unions, which are elected by employees and therefore perfectly legitimate to represent them, this assessment sheds light on all your comments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u10	What a finesse!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] Seventh, the real difficulties encountered by some of our fellow citizens. Mrs Fiat and Mr Dharréville, you rightly recalled, even if your remarks covered a much wider field than the only field of work, the existence of situations of poverty and distress, with their procession of exclusions, scandalous in our eyes as a Frenchman of the 21st century. However, no one should exploit these situations by making an amalgam without any connection to the strengthening of the social dialogue in the company, which we are dealing with here. MM. Mignola and Vercamer referred to the financing of social dialogue and I believe that this is indeed an important key. Social dialogue cannot be claimed to be strengthened by saving people's careers, resources and transparency. A first response was given in 2014 with the creation of a fund for the financing of social dialogue. We are also considering including in the orders the possibility for branch agreements to provide additional funding for a given sector. In our mind, this competence must be reserved for the branch. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] In conclusion, I would like to take a look back at the comments made by Messrs. Taché and Chiche and Mrs Petit and Mrs Grandjean and salute the courage shown on the benches of this assembly to move forward, to the demand of trust. This is nothing blessed-yes-yes, trust because it takes courage to have the confidence to find win-win solutions to renovate our social model, in co-construction with the social partners, for more freedom, more protection, more quality of life at work, more economic efficiency and, ultimately, more jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u12	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u13	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, first speaker on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u14	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if this bill really aims to simplify the lives of our businesses and to break the regulatory, administrative and legislative straitjackets that affect our SMEs, to the point of killing them sometimes, I will rush to vote on it, even if I am not satisfied with the choice of orders. The use of orders, even if it may be justified in certain circumstances, does not seem to me to be the right method in social matters. But the essential thing is not there. I say again: it is imperative to listen to our companies that are stifled by a labour code that has become incomprehensible. Our SMEs, our artisans, our traders are now so corset that they hesitate to recruit. I have met family businesses, particularly in the agricultural or wine sector, which prefer to outsource a particular operation to a company that employs foreign labour for fear of not complying with the law to the letter and therefore being punished. We must therefore approach this construction of the labour law, bearing in mind that it must serve in the first place the smallest of our enterprises, which are also the most numerous and those which, freed from constraints, could create the most jobs. Focusing on agreements as close as possible to the company – Article 1 e is devoted to this issue – and limiting the number of representative bodies are all good ideas, provided they do not distort competition between SMEs and large groups. Let us be careful that the flexibility that is supposed to be introduced does not neglect the interests of employees or those of SMEs, the engines of job creation in France. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] It is precisely because I am concerned about the most fragile of our employees, those whom Emmanuel Macron treats as "nothing" people, that I will strive to facilitate the lives of their employers, in these very small companies where we practice little class struggle but much elbow to elbow to find and honor the orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u15	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u16	You said, Madam Minister, that there was no total reversal of the hierarchy of standards: what I find, at least, when I read this article, is a massive reversal since the law will be supplanted in many areas. The article tends to recognize a "central" place in the corporate agreement, which is a historic break in the social tradition of our country. This situation will promote inequalities of rights between different companies. Small businesses have already started complaining about the consequences in terms of inequalities within each branch. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This article is obviously decisive. It is symptomatic of what is actually a reversal of the hierarchy of norms. It would be better from the point of view of the debate if you clearly assumed it, so that the women and men of our country know what it really is.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u17	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u18	We have repeatedly said that this text, both in form and in substance, constitutes a blank cheque to the detriment of employees, who must not be forgotten that it is in the labour law of subordinates. Article 1 provides in particular that an employee's refusal to modify his employment contract by means of a new collective agreement will be a real and serious cause of dismissal: to tell you how destabilised the contract is. At the same time, the text provides a framework for the conditions for contesting a collective agreement, in particular by giving it a presumption of legality and by closing the appeal within time limits allowing the judge to modulate its effects over time. I have been discovering the National Assembly for a few days and I can see how much you agree on the essentials, whatever the benches of the House, from the right to the right. As proof, I would like to thank Mr Fillon for his diagnosis of the MEDEF programme – forgive me for getting him out of retirement. Analysing Mr Fillon's programme, the MEDEF was decorating his plan for a break in labour law. Of course you have not accepted his proposal to establish freedom of candidature in the first round of professional elections. On the other hand, his proposal to put an end to the monopoly of trade union organisations is at the heart of your project. The same applies to the possibility given to the company agreements to lay down the architecture of the bodies representing the staff and the arrangements for their consultation – I had the opportunity to recall that, without the health, safety and working conditions committees, the CHSCT, the asbestos scandal would never have been denounced. Finally, the text provides for the establishment of a corporate referendum in the event of a blockage of social dialogue. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I can see how the right and the Republic are in phase on this labour law break-up project.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u19	Words full of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u20	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u21	Madam Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in telling you how unbearable and intolerable this bill is: we want to sweep the social gains of high struggle by the employees by a vote. We have submitted many proposals to the Committee on Social Affairs in a constructive spirit. The rapporteur has rejected all of our amendments to delete the articles from the text, but also those aimed at amending or supplementing the scope of the orders, in his view, to "respect the method put in place". As parliamentarians, we should therefore not only accept the government's forceful passage through the ordinances, but also censor and withdraw those of our amendments that deal with matters that are the subject of discussions between the minister and the trade unions! So let us ask this question: what is Parliament's purpose if everything is decided at Elysée or at Matignon? The Macron Presidency is like an authoritarian regime, in which all powers lie with the executive and where all forms of opposition are muzzled. Yet our will is to make known beyond these walls the reality of your ideological project of breaking and murdering the labour code. To recognize, as Article 1e r provides, "a central place" in corporate bargaining is a break in the history of our social relations. France is the first country in the world in terms of conventional or statutory coverage: more than 90% of French employees are covered by a collective agreement, compared with 60% of German employees. The El Khomri law had already disarticulated the hierarchy of norms. With this article, the branch no longer exists: we go directly to the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u22	Please close, Mr. Bruneel.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u23	But not just at the branch level, where trade unions are present, but in companies, where the power relations are so inequitable and the employees are the least represented, it is aggravating inequalities between employees and promoting social dumping.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u24	I thank each speaker for sticking to the two minutes of speaking: more than 20 speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u25	Minister, Mr.President, ladies and gentlemen, in several places in her explanatory memorandum, this bill is intended to simplify labour law. The same objective was put forward to justify the vote on the El Khomri Act. We are constantly legislating on the labour code. Do you think changing labour law every year is a simplification? In the previous legislature, it was sixty-five laws that affected the Labour Code by far. According to the remarks made by Gilles Lécuelle, representative of the CFE-CGC, during his hearing, "regular legislative changes concerning the Labour Code pose many problems for companies. This new law will therefore create additional difficulties. By proposing a new bill that aims to rewrite two thirds of the Labour Code, you are therefore involved in the complexity of the labour law that you claim to be fighting. I would add that if labour law is complex, it is also because of the derogations that have been gradually granted to employers. All you have to do is look at the legislation on CSDs or on working time to find out. This bill repeats the same mistakes: the primacy given to the company agreement, by allowing for derogatory negotiation, will only accentuate the fragmentation of labour law into varying standards across companies. How will the labour inspectorate monitor the application of labour law in such a maquis of norms? How will the judge do it? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] On the other hand, we believe that the so-called simplification serves as a pretext to tackle fundamental guarantees of the Labour Code. We cannot support such an objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u26	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u27	[[Exclaims on the REM and MODEM panels. Laughs and applause on the benches of the LR group]] We are all out of an election campaign, which lasted for some months, even several years, and for others a few days. We met hundreds of workers, managers and even employers. They told us: "Do not create France from the average wage of 700 euros" or "seconded jobs are unfair competition, against which we must act. That's the priority. Still others have asked us to act on purchasing power to revive consumption or to act on public order to revive activity. [[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] What are the working conditions in TPEs? Some of you may not know them. Often, the boss is paternalistic. This may be good, but it is not always the case. In these circumstances, how can we exercise trade union responsibilities? What protections do you intend to strengthen at the level of the labour inspectorate to ensure the follow-up of company agreements? How can union representatives be assured of a normal career? In the TPEs, you know, they don't have a career. Their end-of-year premiums are certainly not equal to zero, because they are prohibited, but at least. How do you intend to act so that this is no longer relevant? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] What about their workload and the quality of the positions they occupy? These are the worst jobs, on the pretext that the hours of delegation they provide would prevent them from being effective in their work for the company. What do you intend to do about it? Your bill does not contain any provisions in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u28	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u29	Article 1 aims to facilitate business agreements. In this way, the Government will weaken employees who are in an unequal balance of power vis-à-vis their employer and who will no longer be able to rely on collective guarantees to defend their rights. This development, desired by the President of the Republic and your majority, is taking place at the same time as the High Council for Equality between Women and Men publishes a report highlighting the increasing precariousness of women and the increased difficulties they face in accessing care. This study recalls that women now constitute the majority of people in precarious situations. They account for 70 per cent of the working poor and occupy 82 per cent of part-time jobs. The trend is alarming: for the past 15 years, occupational diseases, as well as accidents at work and travelling accidents, have increased sharply among women, especially in sectors where there is a high degree of precariousness. Not only is access to the care of women in precarious situations pointed out, but their very state of health is a matter of concern. Premature mortality is, on average, three times higher among female workers than among middle managers and occupations. Indeed, precariousness represents an obstacle to care: according to a study in June 2016 cited by the High Council, women account for 64 per cent of those who have postponed or abandoned care in the previous 12 months. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] To combat these social and gender inequalities, the High Council for Equality between Women and Men issued twenty-one recommendations to the public authorities. I invite you to read them because your project runs counter to all these recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u30	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u31	Minister, you claim that this text is intended to simplify the labour code. The truth is that it will create great instability for our companies and increased precariousness among employees. What you propose is a source of conflict. With this text, the common rules will be different in each company in the same branch. This change will create a real jungle between SMEs in the same sector, each seeking to be the most competitive by making wages, leave and working time as many adjustment variables, instead of guaranteeing the same rights for all. What you are proposing is the adaptation of men to the rules of the market and to the law of the strongest. What progress! Whenever the Labour Code has been detrigued to ease the rules of dismissal, it is the workers who have paid the high price. In my region, Nord-Pas-de-Calais, 60000 industrial jobs were abolished between 2005 and 2015. Sambre and Meuse, La Redoute, Samsonite, Doux à Graincourt, Stora Enso à Corbehem: all these companies have used the rules that facilitate layoffs in the name of international competitiveness. Auchan is doing it right now. This hurts employment, workers, but also our French economy and industry. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] You're wrong: instead of changing the labour code to make businesses safer, you'd better do it to protect employees and allow our companies to complete their order books by re-launching consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u32	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u33	[[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr President, Madam Minister, a small word, because everything is restricted with this majority. A little word about the method, to say again that the legislative process has been literally trampled for two weeks This recourse to ordinances, first of all: what a contempt for national representation! Should this legislature start with a refusal by parliamentarians to exercise their prerogatives? We should, barely elected, rely on the exercise of the rights of the legislator! It is a real stabbing in the back, a questioning of the balance of powers, which signifies your will to wage a real flash war against social law, against democracy and against parliamentary representation! Through us, on whatever side we are, it is of course the people who are targeted by this flash war. Are we therefore unworthy of debating and legislating in accordance with the expectations of our fellow citizens? It is only to see the content of the exchanges in the Committee on Social Affairs. We were ready to debate, project against project, ideas for ideas, philosophy against philosophy – that's why we are here and we will show it during the discussion of the text in this House. However, none of the 30 or so amendments tabled by our group have been adopted. Then see the deadlines for tabling the amendments, which are unworthy of a real debate. At the end of the examination in the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we have only had a little more than 24 hours to table amendments. It's never been seen! In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Government takes care of everything, in partisan conclave if necessary. As it stands, the bill cannot have a broader scope of labour law. The message is really: "Move, there's nothing to see! » [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It is the basic rights of national representation that are violated by this farce. You are, as we have said, a government and a majority of disorder. There is no doubt that the social movement will be able to call you back to order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u34	I don't know who you were referring to when you spoke of a limited speaking time. I would like to point out that the two-minute deadline applies to all Members on the Rule. Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u35	Article 1e draws particular attention to the division of responsibilities between industry agreements and company agreements. As far as industry agreements are concerned, you know the commitment of the members of the Democratic and Related Movement to the fact that a number of major areas continue to be raised in order to allow for the occupational mobility of employees as well as to avoid social dumping between companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u37	From this point of view, it seems to us that the issue of corporate social responsibility – CSR – could be integrated into industry agreements. On the one hand, it would allow us to involve the big companies of our country in this citizens' approach, in the same overall movement. On the other hand, this would allow SMEs, especially smaller ones, to adopt a basic framework for corporate social responsibility, knowing that they do not always have the means or the capacity to engage in this type of approach. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] In general, just as we are fighting against social dumping, this would help to avoid that, tomorrow, agreements that are too differentiated will lead to societal dumping.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u38	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u39	Minister, section 1 completely upsets labour law, with a complete reversal of logic to date. With this article, you want to include in the law the primacy of the corporate agreement in a number of areas much more important than today. The so-called "third block" would no longer be confined to an inventory set out in the texts. On the contrary, the number of exceptions to business agreements will now be limited. In short, it is the generalization of what we had seen with the El Khomri law on working time: the ordinances extend to all areas the scope of the prohibition to lock. The consequences for employees will be measured in terms of legal uncertainty and deterioration of working conditions, while small enterprises may face situations of social dumping because they are not able to refer to a common industry treaty law. In the overseas regions, where monopolies and oligopolies are commonplace, risks will increase, especially when companies, usually small, act as subcontractors. The articulation of the different levels of negotiation is a serious issue, which requires much more than a question of the degree of trust to be given to social dialogue. With these new procedures for the development of social norms, it is all our social protection, patiently constructed, that is at stake. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] However, the principle of reality is in the process of being established, since the consultation with the social partners in recent days has led to an increase in the number of areas covered by the branches from six to twelve. So let me tell you this: one more effort, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u40	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u41	With Article 1, Madam Minister, you are proposing a new link between the branch agreement and the company agreement. The purpose of this article is to extend the primacy of the enterprise agreement while leaving an essential role for the branches in the regulation of competition and in other areas already mentioned. It is, in my opinion, a common sense choice. This articulation gives rise to the desire for greater proximity to the decision-making centres, in contrast to the vertical approach that has prevailed so far. If I acknowledge the validity of this balance, I will remain very attentive to the direction you will take in this regard for smaller companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] From what you have told us, Minister, you have just completed the consultation with the unions on section 1, and will do so tomorrow on sections 2 and 3. In committee, you replied that you could not accept any of our amendments because, precisely, you had not completed this consultation. We have accepted this answer, but we expect the debate to take place in the Chamber and the many amendments we have tabled to be considered in substance and, for some, accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u42	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u43	Article 1 contains the most violent attack on the current social order. Let us not turn around the pot: it enshrines the inversion of the hierarchy of norms and relegates branch agreements to a lower rank. The problem, from the beginning, is that this offensive – forgiveness for this word, but that is what it is – is carried out in camouflage uniform, which weighs heavily on our debates. The camouflage is semantic because I tell you straight away – at this late hour, we can speak frankly – you often use a rather confused novlangue that adds to our remarks. However, let us try to find out from this confusion or ambiguities the reality of your project. In Article 1, you claim to give "a central place to collective bargaining, in particular of undertakings". There is a contradiction between "collective" and "company" bargaining. The entire history of the social movement has consisted precisely in replacing local particularities with a law that expresses the general interest. Whatever you say, Madam Minister, by these terms "companies in particular", you upset the social order by bringing back to local particularism the social legislation we want it to be national. Stop turning around the pot, leave your ideological camouflage outfit and go to the essentials. [["Yes! » on several benches of the REM group]] [[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] What I have heard since the beginning of our debates is, moreover, the result of an ideology that I know by heart. Do not see here any modernity, colleagues of the Republic on the move. It comes from the 19th century, this ideology which aims to make believe that there would be common interests within the enterprise between the boss and the employees and that the consensus should be preserved...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u44	Go on, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u45	... rather than finding an agreement between common social classes; employees should determine themselves within the enterprise in the framework of joint agreements with their employer. This ideology has a name in the history of ideas: it is corporatism, whether you want it or not...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u46	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u47	... and it is contrary to the whole history of emancipation that we have borne. You repeat to us that we must decide as close to the field as possible: I know this ideology. Its motto is: "The land does not lie! »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u48	Please conclude, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u49	It's an ideology of good rand. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We are a national assembly here: we do not want local particularities, local exceptions, but the national law that applies to all. That's the opposite of what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u50	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u51	INSEE's environmental note, What do companies tell us about barriers to hiring? , published on 20 June 2017, is highly instructive and would have deserved more careful consideration by the Government. Indeed, the labour regulation barrier is significantly less important than that linked to economic uncertainty and the lack of availability of a skilled labour force. This observation asks us about the concept of urgency, in the end all relative, which prevails for the examination of this text and justifies the use of the order procedure. In fact, it is also useful to legislate with full knowledge of the facts. It would therefore have been wiser to wait a little to assess the impact of the many reforms already carried out in 2014, 2015 and 2016. You, the minister, justify the urgency by stating that it takes eighteen months for the proposed measures to have their effect. Why, then, did not apply this principle to evaluate and evaluate the previous texts? We would therefore like to provide you with a few comments on this Article 1: yes to the referendum within the company, but under the existing conditions and in no case by leaving it to the free initiative of the employer. With regard to the transition to the majority agreements, scheduled for 2019, if we are in favour of anticipating their implementation, we are opposed to any change in the majority rules. That is why we will introduce an amendment to delete paragraph 14. [[Applause on several benches]] Finally, as regards the acceleration of the procedure for restructuring the branches of industry and the modification of the legal provisions relating to this restructuring, why not wait for the conclusions of the work of the Joint Committee for the Restructuring of Branches, which has worked on the mapping of branches and the consensus definition of the very concept of branch? Why do we want to make a major change to the current provisions, when there is already a fundamental reflection? Isn't that, in the end, wanting to move forward on a forced march?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u52	All right! We must join our ranks, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u53	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am quite surprised, if not shocked, by the Manichean and caricatural vision that some opposition parliamentarians have given of this reform. It is easy to constantly oppose entrepreneurs and employees and to make believe that all French companies are listed at CAC 40 and that a handful of wealthy shareholders have the right to life and death on employees! The bill presented with great clarity and height of view by the Minister of Labour responds in reality to a universal observation: the excess of standards and rigidity leads to inverse results of those targeted, in the labour market as elsewhere, for entrepreneurs as well as for employees. Article 1 of this bill responds precisely to this problem since it is in the direction of social democracy and dialogue within the company itself, giving more power to the unions to dialogue and decide together the best choices for the company – which, it is worth recalling, does not consist of entrepreneurs alone. Ladies and gentlemen of La France, you do not have a monopoly on the people. I, for my part, work in the medical and social sector, specifically in an association that works with disabled and homeless people and in the child protection sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u55	[[Long protests on the benches of the REM group]] Like HRD?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mrs Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] In this association, where, as you may suspect, the pursuit of profit is not the first objective, the complexity and rigidity of the rules hinder the hiring and well-being of employees, because it is often too complicated or too risky to recruit, evolve or advance employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u58	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u59	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some speak of "fucking" to refer to social dialogue. I do not share this view, but rather that of Mr Mailly, of the Workers' Force, who said this morning on France Inter that many positive developments had emerged from the consultation. Thus Article 1 seeks to strengthen the branch by extending six to twelve areas of its scope of negotiation, which will include, for example, professional equality between men and women or negotiations on the quality of employment. Another step forward is the opening up of a space for trade within companies. Who is better placed to decide the future than the stakeholders on the ground, who know their strengths, their constraints, their situation? In a constantly changing economy, where 50% of jobs will be profoundly changed in ten years' time, only social bargaining can provide the agility needed to adapt and thus protect jobs. We believe in collective intelligence; We believe that it can produce win-win agreements and that any agreement does not necessarily make a loser. Our ambition is precisely to try to create an ambitious social dialogue that gives positive results on the ground. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This text therefore seems to me to address the current problems. That is also what our voters think. I would therefore like to meet a little less condescendence in the future on the part of the elected members of the La France group, in particular, because we represent voters who share our vision of things and that deserves respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u60	That's not true! The French do not support this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u61	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us is a project marked by ideology, in the full sense of the word. An inattentive reader might think that this is a text in favour of all companies. In fact, under the guise of simplification, it does not involve any real progress for TPEs and SMEs and the framework is intended only for large groups and large companies, as usual. Two examples among others. The first is the simplification of representation, with an extension of the single delegation of staff. They are justified for small and medium-sized enterprises and already exist on a voluntary basis. In large companies, collective redundancies can be facilitated by reducing mandatory consultations and their deadlines for implementation. The second example is that the baremization of workers' compensation – which is not known about the floor or the ceiling, which is relatively worrying – may be an unacknowledged advantage for large companies if the scale applicable to them is the same as for TPEs and SMEs. Above all, small businesses will not stand up to the race for business agreements, either because they will not have the means to grant the counterparties necessary for their signature or because they will not have the necessary interlocutors. [[Applause on several benches of non-attached Members]] As you have understood, this text does not appear to us to be annoyed. It carries within it a vision of the society that we are fighting: that of a society that will see the notion of disposable wage earners established because of the precariousness of its contract or new facilities of dismissal. It will progressively impose in labour law the relativity of employment contracts, the reversal of legal norms and the erasure of collective norms in favour of individual norms. This will be a regression for employees without being an advantage for small and medium-sized enterprises. This text is therefore wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u63	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u64	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the comments that have been made this evening on this and the others, and particularly on behalf of Members of the La République Group. What drives us is benevolence and respect, which have not perspired much in many of the exchanges we have heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u65	It is the employees who will pay the costs of your benevolence and respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u66	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on a few benches of the LR group]] You have constantly stigmatized the deputies of the Republic on the march with statements that are not acceptable. Let me make it clear that the Members of the group of which I am a member, novices in politics for some – by definition, since we embody the renewal expected by so many citizens (Exclamations on several benches of the LR group.) – have been chosen and elected because of a certain profile of professional and social skills that predispose us to fulfilling this mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u67	There are not many workers among you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u68	We would like that to be respected. It is about the quality of our future debates. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As regards the examination of the text in the Committee on Social Affairs, what has been presented by many of you is not the same as what has happened. For each amendment and each article, our rapporteur has put forward arguments which we have widely accepted together. What you call silence or even incompetence is in fact an expression of fidelity to a program on which we have committed ourselves. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, what we have heard by going very broadly to the meeting of our voters, whatever they are – those who voted for us, those who abstained and those who voted for others – is the hope and the wish to finally see the entrepreneurial energies liberated to increase the job offer. That's what we're wearing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u69	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u70	Minister, the Labour Code is not being amended by order in an expeditious manner. The President of the Republic mentioned in Versailles the upgrading of parliamentary work, but the second text of this new legislature, which we are considering here in the National Assembly, is an enabling bill that authorizes the Government to legislate by ordinances, which means that you are going to overrun Parliament, largely erase it. While this week we have the right to debate the heads of chapters of this enabling bill, it is the Government that, instead of Parliament, will write the precise content of the text in the middle of August, when we will not be sitting, and we will not be able to discuss this content until after it comes into force at the end of September. This is not a technical text or a simplification text; We are talking about the daily lives of twenty million employees. What you call the "rigidities" of the Labour Code are the basic protections, basic guarantees and collective rights associated with the employment contract. What entrepreneurs ask of us is a stable legislative and fiscal environment, predictability, simplification of standards and a skilled and trained workforce; They do not demand any more precariousness and instability for their employees. This is also anti-economic because an employee in a precarious situation is not going to contribute to filling in the company's order books. Since 1986, 17 labour market reforms have aimed to ease the employment contract or to facilitate redundancies: 30 years of failure in terms of employment policy. [[Applause on a few benches of the NG group]] With regard to young people – and I will end with that – you will aggravate the current situation, which is scandalous because, regardless of their level of education, small jobs in internships and in precarious jobs, young people take five to ten years to achieve stable employment. You're going to strengthen this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u71	We wonder who ruled all these years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u72	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are only trying to convince you, even if one word sometimes leads to another, to the detriment of our own objective. I will therefore start from your own reasoning to try to convince you of the validity of our position. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The minister said that this text does not reverse the hierarchy of standards, you have all heard it. It therefore considered that it would not be appropriate to reverse the hierarchy of standards. In your opinion, the purpose of this article is to allow the decision to be taken as close to the ground as possible, in the company, and that this agreement is necessary because it would, by hypothesis, be better for everyone. This is already the case: one can already, in a company or in a branch, sign an agreement different from the text of the law – provided, however, that it is better for employees than the law provides: this is what is called the "principle of favour". If you change this rule, it is therefore good to allow for provisions at company or branch level which are less favourable for employees than those laid down in the law. This is how the hierarchy of norms is reversed: the principle of favour becomes a principle of disfavor. You have settled this point by allowing, in particular, that a company may, if it so wishes, derogate from any branch agreement. What is the value of a branch agreement that does not apply to all companies? It applies only to those to which it applies. That is precisely what we denounce. From our point of view, which is that of the legislator, there may well be a two-way agreement, between employers and trade unions, or a dialogue in a company without a trade union, but there is also a third party: it is society as a whole, which we represent on these benches, and society, it has something to say about working conditions, the wear and tear of the worker at work, the health and safety conditions or the materials used, among other things. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I believe I have shown that there is a complete reversal of the hierarchy of standards and I apologize for taking seven seconds beyond the regulatory time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u74	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u75	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 26 April, Emmanuel Macron went to the parking lot of the Whirlpool plant in Amiens. There were employees who had been in the process of being dismissed, who had accepted everything for many years: the freezing of their working time reduction days, weekend work, adjustments to their holidays, etc. For any reward, they were dismissed, while their company made more than 800 million euros in profits and shareholders saw their dividends increase by 10% at the beginning of the year. That's where Emmanuel Macron went during the campaign! Yet, at the end of this campaign, the urgency for him – and apparently for you, parliamentarians – is not to give employees more power to fight the economic aggression of their American shareholders; The urgency is to make more flexible, not capital, but the rights of employees! We have not stopped talking about adaptation, but in this case it is Darwin backwards: the theory of evolution has become a theory of regression. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] For me the question today is how to get democracy into business. A referendum at the initiative of the employer, why not at the limit, but why not also provide for a referendum at the initiative of the employees, which would allow the comrades of Whirlpool, Amiens – Patrice, Frédéric, Chantal and all the others – to regain control of what is happening in the company?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u76	We come to the amendments. I have before me a number of identical amendments, Nos 13, 183, 323, 341 and 346, to delete Article 1. I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u77	The purpose of this amendment is to delete Article 1e because we consider that it would have been necessary to conduct a thorough parliamentary debate, preceded by a consensual social dialogue, in order to bring about a reversal of the hierarchy of conventional norms in labour law. If the order process goes to its end, we will see in some time the real effects of this extension of the areas where the enterprise agreement will have primacy, i.e. where the reversal of the hierarchy of norms will apply. There is no doubt that the vast majority of SMEs and TPEs will not be able to take advantage of the new opportunities for flexibility because they do not have the human and technical means to conduct often very difficult negotiations. More fundamentally, it is not possible to proceed by order to deconstruct the Matignon Accords of 1936 and to weaken the preamble of the Constitution of 27 October 1946.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u78	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 183.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u79	It is unfortunate to see that this bill, entitled "Proposal for enabling by ordinances measures to strengthen social dialogue", does not address the improvement or strengthening of dialogue in favour of employees. So I invite you, in the future, to call a cat a cat. I propose the following title: "Proposal for an enabling bill to be made by order to allow employers to propose a labour code per company." Article 1e is probably the most dangerous, as it implies questioning the principles of favour and the hierarchy of norms, which are fundamental principles of French law and a cornerstone of social public order. First referred to by the Council of State in an opinion of 22 March 1973, the principle of favour illustrates the protective nature of labour law. The Conseil d'Etat states that the laws or regulations adopted in the field of labour law are of a public nature as guarantees of minimum benefits to workers. It appears as a consubstantial principle of this branch of law, or even its very soul. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We do not need a crystal ball to know that this article implies a convergence of social rights down. Let us not have short memories and not forget why these securitys have been put in place. I invite you to make, beyond your label, a personal and informed judgment on this issue. That is why we propose to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u80	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 323.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u81	You have understood that we strongly dislike this article. For the reasons already mentioned, we propose its deletion. Indeed, it provides for the reversal of the hierarchy of standards and the possibility for companies to derogate in the wrong direction, i.e. to the detriment of employees' rights. I recall that this mechanism had already been challenged at the time of the examination of the El Khomri law, rejected by a very large majority of opinion and by the majority of trade union organisations. It had been adopted in the National Assembly only through the use of 49-3. Without having been bothered to assess the effects of this reform on the world of work and while some provisions are only just beginning to enter into force, we are already back in a new project that will widen the gap by enabling the Government to rewrite entire parts of the Labour Code. Despite the explanations given to us, we continue not to share your diagnosis: for us it is not the labour code that harms employment. In fact, there is no correlation between the two: there is no additional employment where one deregulates, but on the contrary much more precarious. This article does provide for the generalisation of the inversion of the hierarchy of norms by giving precedence to the enterprise agreement to the detriment of the law and the essential role of branch bargaining. The law would only become supplementary and the branch agreement would be lower. On the contrary, we know very well that equal rules must be laid down for all and that it is at company level that the balance of power can be most unfavourable to employees. That is why we must prevent the detricting of the law. From now on, the principle of the primacy of the enterprise agreement would become the principle in many areas of law, apart from those where, by way of exception, derogation would be prohibited. For these reasons we propose the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u82	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 341.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u83	This amendment is intended to delete Article 1. In French labour law, the law has always been the common basis for protecting employees. With this bill, you are launching, Madam Minister, a large-scale dismantling of the Labour Code. While labour law has always been thought of as a protection of employees, or as an improvement in their working conditions, in accordance with the principle of favour, you now have the ambition to make it a tool in the service of the law of the strongest. You argue that the bill you are defending would be a clarification, a security or a simplification of the labour code when it is actually a real deregulation. The current labour code can be supplemented, improved and adapted by collective bargaining, with a view to applying the rule most favourable to employees. It is in this sense that the Labour Code should be rewritten. On the contrary, your text makes employee protection an option that the company can give up. It is the door open to all abuses in the name of a labour liberalisation which you have no proof that it will create employment. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Yet other battles would have deserved you to devote the same energy to reforming the labour code. I am thinking of the fight against tax evasion and optimisation, which create so many inequalities between small and large companies. You prefer to tackle the protections of the weak: we regret it and, for these reasons, we call for the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u84	I call Mr Lecoq to support Amendment No. 346.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u85	A few words to convey my misunderstanding of the Government's willingness to legislate on labour law. The El Khomri-Macron law was passed just a year ago – we remember under what conditions. Today we are being asked to legislate on the same subject, on the same subjects, when no concrete evaluation has been carried out. No assessment has been made of the consequences of the reversal of the hierarchy of standards that you are proposing to us today. No assessment has been made of the consequences of the redefinition of the grounds for economic dismissal, which you are now proposing to us to relax again. No assessment has been made of the social consequences of the reform of corporate referendums, which you are proposing to recast. Why so eagerly when social emergencies are quite different? Why don't you tackle social inequalities? Why don't you tackle the grabbing by some of the wealth created by companies? Our country is once again Europe's champion in the distribution of dividends: more than €45 billion last year, at a time when our country's finances are being massively solicited to support companies with the CICE – tax credit for competitiveness and employment. There is therefore the means for concerted development in our country; There is the means to enable everyone to find their place in our society and the activity to develop. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We will propose amendments in this direction, first of all by asking for the evaluation of the El Khomri law, which we have fought against; Then, by proposing a framework for remuneration in companies, strengthening the prerogatives of staff representatives on the use of the CICE and the tax practices of large companies; Finally, by creating new rights, such as the right of preemption allowing employees to take over their work tools. That would be truly innovative, ladies and gentlemen; This is what would "take up the challenge of the changing world" to take up your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u86	Mr Pietraszewski, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u87	The committee rejected these amendments. Even if the Members who were present in committee will not discover any great new developments in my argument, it seems to me important to communicate some substantive elements to the national representation. First of all, and even if you do not agree, I would like to stress one point: the bill is not intended to reverse the hierarchy of standards!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u88	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u89	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The law will continue to exist and to lay down the fundamental principles of labour law, which are valid everywhere, in all enterprises in France. We must be very relaxed on this point: this will continue! It's nothing to be afraid of!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u90	What changes then?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u91	Thus, the law lays down the basis of the fundamental principles to which it will not be possible to derogate by agreement. Moreover, and we will come back to it more precisely when we consider certain paragraphs of Article 1, it is no longer a question of having collective agreement over the contract of employment taken precedence than of reversing the hierarchy of norms. However, certain types of agreements will have consequences for the contract of employment: it is therefore essential to clarify their effects on contractual relations between the employee and the employer. That is the objective of our debate this evening, not the reversal of the hierarchy of norms. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] There is a second fundamental point. Beyond the deletion of the article, you have made many proposals – I will not quote them all because they are very numerous. You are proposing to include certain provisions in the bill when it is an enabling bill, which seeks to set a framework. Forgive me for repeating what I have already said in committee, but these elements obviously cannot be retained as they run counter to what can be done in an enabling bill. For all these reasons, these amendments were rejected by the committee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u92	The Minister for Labour has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u93	The same opinion as the rapporteur of the committee. I will simply clarify the substance. First of all, from the point of view of political democracy, I would like to point out that the enabling law is a law and 340 amendments are going to be discussed. At the end of their examination, you will not give a blank cheque to the Government, ladies and gentlemen, but a warrant to proceed by order, following a democratic vote. You will also ratify by law the ordinances that we have promulgated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u94	You sign and the government fills out the check!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u95	I shall return for a moment, in the same spirit as in committee and in line with the rapporteur's remarks, to the hierarchy of standards. No, there is no reversal of the hierarchy of norms. At last, we distinguish clearly what falls within the scope of the law – the fundamental rights and principles – from what does not have to be defined extremely precisely by the law, or even by the branch. I would like to mention a few examples of the distinction between industry and business. Do you know that some branches define the annual evaluation form: do you think it is the work of the branch?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u96	Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u97	You're not explaining anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u98	Some branches determine the level of travel costs for workers and managers of all French companies in this branch: do you honestly think that this is the level of the branch? It is for this reason that we want to distinguish clearly what is a matter of law – what is above all, the fundamental principles that are necessary for everyone – from what is at the level of the industry and what is at the level of the company. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We must not allow this anti-woman, who claims, out of all reality, that company agreements would necessarily be unfavourable to employees. It's a decoy! Ask trade union delegates who sign 36,000 agreements a year in companies if they feel they are betraying their paid voters! I would add – as has been said by many of you – that the role of the industry will also be very important in regulating the situation between large and small businesses, ensuring fair competition and avoiding social dumping. You may not all believe in social dialogue in the company, but many examples show that it has a virtue. He is present throughout our country, especially in your constituency, Mr. Mélenchon. Recently, the Wulfran Puget and Bouchard clinics merged. An agreement signed on 28 March by all trade union organisations, following a high-quality social dialogue, helped to maintain employment and establish accompanying measures for the teams. Examples like this, there are 36000 per year! So trust unions and business leaders: they know how to negotiate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u99	Then don't touch anything! We don't need you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u100	Let the minister speak, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u101	I listened to you: I thank you for listening to me in your turn. As I have committed myself to doing so, I would like to clarify what we have agreed to date on the first block, the relationship between the industry and the company. We believe that clarifying and securing the whole requires defining three levels. At the first level, branch agreements take precedence over company agreements. This is the case for conventional minima, classifications, the pooling of joint funding – financing funds for paritarianism, vocational training funds, contingency funds, supplementary health care and daily allowance supplements. In addition, and this is new, we propose to add to the branch agreements the management of the quality of employment: minimum duration of part-time and hour supplements, regulation of short contracts, conditions of use of contracts of indefinite duration of work site. Of course, in the absence of sectoral agreements, the current law will continue to apply. Our system remains suppletive: in the absence of a company agreement, it is the branch agreement that applies; In the absence of a branch agreement, it is the law – in some areas, it can only be the law or the branch agreement. Another very important point which must be included in all sectoral agreements is the equality between women and men in the profession. While the principle is clearly contained in the law, the way in which it is implemented is still not effective, although the law in question is about 15 years old. It's a priority for the branches. The second block would consist of the areas in which the branch may decide to take precedence over the company agreements, without being obliged to do so. Either a branch agreement is concluded, to which companies who wish to refer, or it "locks" it, as is said in the jargon of the social partners, i.e. it imposes it on companies. It is in any case the branch which decides, the situations being very different from one sector to another. Could be part of this second block the prevention of occupational risks, the prevention of penitibility, disability and – this is a new element – the conditions and means of exercising a trade union mandate, the recognition of acquired skills and career developments. Since we believe that enhanced social dialogue will be both an element of competitiveness and social justice, we must ensure that trade union organisations and trade union delegates have the means to do so. The recognition of career paths and careers in particular is a decisive element of this success. The third block, the one at the heart of our debate, consists of the areas that do not appear in the previous two blocks. Here, and this is a novelty, we say that the business agreement is a priority – subject of course to compliance with the provisions, which I have already mentioned. How does this differ from the current situation? In the field of application, first of all, since if neither the law nor the branch seizes it, it is ultimately because it can be quite adapted to the closest to the field. Above all, it makes it possible to combine several themes in order to achieve real social and economic progress. I'll give you an example. A few days ago, I went to an industrial carpentry company in Chollet that employs four hundred people, is growing and needs to recruit eighty people. Unable to find employees on the local labour market. The trade unions have therefore proposed that women be recruited for this occupation, which is considered to be a profession of men. Therefore, the workstations had to be adapted. An agreement on the quality of life at work has therefore been reached, which has also become an agreement on equality between men and women. Contracts were won and agreement was reached on working time, including the use of weekend work. No fewer than five subjects have been dealt with in this way. A single very detailed theme since the branch would not have allowed such progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u102	So you can see it's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Today, we need to secure social innovation and social and economic dialogue so that companies, together with the elected representatives of employees, can make, not less of a right but "better of a right", a right more adapted to the field, by combining all economic and social issues
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u104	Thank you. ...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u105	[[Same movements]] Finally, I think that we need to think with the social partners about ways and means to encourage trade unionisation, to ensure the development of careers, and also to combat trade union discrimination, all of which are essential to the strengthening of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u106	On identical amendments Nos 13, 183, 323, 341 and 346, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 13, 183, 323, 341 and 346.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u107	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 131 and 207. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 131.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u108	This amendment aims at a serene and comprehensive review of this enabling law and of this far-reaching reform proposed to us today. It is not by means of ordinances and a text voted in record time, in the middle of summer, that it will be possible to have this national debate. How can we believe that such a law will respond to the urgent need to combat unemployment on the understanding that it is a continuation of the policies that have been carried out for years, which have led us into the wall with nine million people living below the poverty line and six million unemployed? Minister, you have spoken on several occasions about social justice, to which we too are deeply committed. I work myself in a neighbourhood where the youth unemployment rate is 50%. How will the worsening of the precariousness of jobs and contracts change the situation of these young people, while three quarters of the job creation comes from CSDs, temporary employment, internships, vacations, assisted jobs or uberisation? We'll never agree! We don't forget Emmanuel Macron's comments on young people in working-class neighbourhoods, who would have the choice of becoming a shit dealer or Uber driver. It's not a choice worthy of that name! I would add that, since 1982, nine points of GDP have gone from wages to capital income, which corresponds to a shortage of three thousand euros a year for employees. So let us be told how not to tackle this loss of money for employees will allow these young people to have jobs! I would like to be explained, too, how the employment of young people will be promoted when they are removed from employment after having refused two jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u109	Conclude, Mrs. Panot!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u110	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Nor will we achieve this by abolishing 125,000 posts of civil servants!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u111	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u112	This amendment is indeed the same, but its philosophy is different. Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteurs, the very small enterprises, particularly in the craft and trade sectors, especially where they have fewer than five employees, are not always adapted to the company agreement, the branch being the most relevant when companies do not have the capacity to negotiate. Your project, Madam Minister, gives rise to a lot of concern among the TPEs, whether they are entrepreneurs or employees, as the Union of Proximity Enterprises has told you. Drawing lessons from the field, we propose this amendment, which will ensure the appropriate and necessary balances for local businesses, because of the lack of precision, at this time, on the specific clauses for small businesses, which are fundamental to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u113	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u115	The committee rejected these two amendments. I shall dwell on it for a few moments, Mr President, because their motivations are not identical. I understand that the amendment supported by Mrs Panot shows a global political position, as we have already seen on other occasions. Don't see any bad will on my part, but I'm not going to repeat the same argument. I hear your position, but I stand by the rejection of the committee. The argument made by Mr Bazin in Amendment No 207 is a little more detailed, but, reading it, I think it is a bit surprising to be wary of corporate bargaining. Of which act. For my part, I have some confidence in corporate bargaining but I don't want to be angelic and I want to believe that things aren't always that simple. I would admit that corporate negotiations can sometimes be more unbalanced than negotiations at the branch level. However, I would like to make it clear that there is no question in this reform that corporate bargaining sets out all the rules applicable to employees. Not only will the definition of certain collective guarantees remain at the branch level and will even be extended, but some areas may even be locked by the branch. The Commission will therefore continue to exercise its role of economic and social regulation. All these elements should be such as to reassure you. Finally, with regard to the provisions of public policy – I turn to our colleagues in France who are unsubstantiated because that is an important point – they constitute a basis for which there is no question of derogation. These principles will continue to prevail over collective agreements at all levels. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u117	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u118	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u119	You are wondering, ladies and gentlemen, about the urgency of legislation and the opportunity to legislate this summer. The urgency to legislate seems to us to be sufficiently justified by the fact that our country has 6.6 million unemployed. You are wondering about the urgency of legislation, but also about the issue of equality between women and men. You should know that it is women who are today the hardest hit by unemployment in our country. You are wondering about the urgency of legislating, when you are well aware that structural unemployment is a French exception. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] For our part, in the majority, we refuse to be condemned to choose between two options: to undergo economic change or to be placed under house arrest. You referred to an intervention by candidate Emmanuel Macron, which you have more than slightly caricatured. He said one very simple thing, however: young people in our neighbourhoods should not be forced to choose between being a dealer or a Uber driver. We want them to be masters of their destiny, we want them no longer under house arrest. That is why we are legislating, and we are legislating urgently.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u120	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, we have said strong things to ourselves. You answered us and I want to take you to the word. Under the good old formula that "it goes better by saying it", and since you have all told us that there is no question of going towards a reversal of the hierarchy of standards, we propose an amendment that clearly says so. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Honestly, if you don't vote for our amendment, all your answers will collapse. It is about the sincerity of our exchanges. You told us all that it was out of the question of going towards an inversion of the hierarchy of norms and that we were making you a false trial. It's time to write it black and white! If you do not, you will remain in this almost Orwellian novlan that characterizes our debates. I have a few formulas to offer to enrich it. Your next slogan could be: "Easy to dismiss the struggle against unemployment. I also propose: "insecureness makes security", "the interest of some is the general interest", or "particularisms are the rule". Stop making speeches that go back to what you want to do. If it is true that you do not want to reverse the hierarchy of standards, then you must vote for this amendment. I ask you, and I am sure that many of you are convinced that it should be written black and white, to reassure employees and to ensure that the social dialogue within the company will be favourable to them. For it is true, and I would like to finish on this, that we do not trust the social dialogue as it is today. We know how things happen in reality: often, in the company, employees are not in a position of strength vis-à-vis their employer. Who can say otherwise? Who, among those who know the world of business, can say that there is equality between employees and the employer? Is the principle of the employee's subordination to the employer not enshrined in the law itself? Who can believe an equal dialogue between two individuals who have a hierarchical relationship? This is proof that the law is necessary to help employees. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] We are at the heart of the matter: if you really think what you said earlier, if you think I'm exaggerating or misunderstood your project, and if it's true that you won't touch the hierarchy of standards, then you have to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u123	The committee has rejected this amendment, and I would like to explain it to Mr Corbière because he has put a lot of energy into defending his amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u124	An untiring energy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u125	This amendment proposes to reintroduce the hierarchy of standards and the principle of favour. You were not there when I spoke on this point in committee and I will therefore repeat my argument because it is important that we make a clear exchange of views on this point. First of all, we should clarify what this reintroduction of the hierarchy of standards means. Are we talking about the one that applied before the 2008 Act, before the 2004 Act, or before the 2016 Act? That's a real question. I will then remind you that the derogations from the principle of favour have existed since 1982 – some of you were already sitting in this House at the time. An ordinance on working hours had already provided for the possibility, by collective agreement, of derogating from the legal provisions for the establishment of an overtime quota. So it's not a novelty. In other words, the strict establishment of a hierarchy of norms, in which the lower source must strictly respect the higher source, coupled with the principle of favour, according to which a lower source can only be more favourable, refers to a totally theoretical order. I would also like to reiterate that there is no question of escaping from the legal rules and the principle of favour. In this respect, public policy provisions are a basis for which no derogation is to be made by agreement, whether by branch or by undertaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u126	Then write it down!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u127	The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u128	Same opinion as the rapporteur. In order to shed light on everyone, I would like to reiterate once again the way in which we design these company agreements. The aim is to retain a wider scope, allowing for quality agreements, which are not just a declination, but a combination of agreements, more interesting for economic performance, but also for social justice in the company. In such a case, where several agreements are concluded at the same time, as in the case of the industrial carpentry company I mentioned earlier, the hierarchical and vertical vision is no longer relevant. We're going to give grain to grind, which will be extremely positive and will allow for social innovation. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, I would like to dispel confusion. If it is true that the employment contract introduces a link of subordination, as I know, a trade union organization is not subordinate to its employer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u129	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u130	You did not answer the question of the principle of favour! Do we not all agree in this House that if an enterprise agreement is better than the law, we are in favour of an enterprise agreement? Madam Minister, the example you have given is in our view, since you have shown us that, in its current state, the Labour Code already allows for agreements that are favourable to employees, in the direction of innovation. Forgive me for telling you, but the example you gave is a counter-example. Why touch the labour code, except to introduce the danger that we point to? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, Mr rapporteur, since you want to go into detail, let's go. You talked about gold: let's put in writing what you told us. Why don't you do it? What we hate you is to keep a lot of blur. We are 100% parliamentarians and we want to do our work as parliamentarians. If we draw the alarm signal, it is because, knowing your plans, we do not want to vote for a vague text. The ambiguities you have maintained since the beginning of our debates show that you speak a language that is not sincere, and I really regret that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u131	Mr Frédéric Descrozaille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u132	I wanted to speak on an issue that we have been talking about since we defended the deletion amendments. I can hear clear points of sincerity in our colleagues, and I thank our colleague Jean-Luc Mélenchon for having had a few words of apology about the excesses that may have been directed at Members of the House of Representatives of the Republic on the move. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We're touching on a subject of substance. You consider that an employee, because he is subordinate and, moreover, he is seeking in a situation of shortage, is too alienated to defend himself. But the reality of the company, which I have known personally, like many of us, is not what you describe. Executives and business leaders who act as bosses and have no respect for their employees, there are many everywhere, not only in large companies. They are found in small businesses, cooperatives, public limited companies, and even in the administration. But leaders and managers, remarkable men and women, who grow people who are under their responsibility and who manage to combine the personal and professional development of their employees with the interests of their company, there are also people everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u133	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u134	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] [[Same movements]] What we want is to allow them to agree with employees who will be responsible, and not defended, "without knowing of their own free will" so to speak, by a law that they do not even know, as complicated as it is. We want to allow them to agree on what applies to the company, its market, its customers, while respecting their interests. Because we cannot assume that we can think of everything, of all sectors, of all the trades in France and Navarre, we will let them agree to settle the particular situations that we have not foreseen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u135	So what do we serve?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u136	On an exceptional basis, I give the floor to a third speaker, who had requested it at the same time. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u137	Thank you, my colleague, for your clarification. Despite appearances, we are not discussing details, but comparing political philosophies. I respect your point of view: you are convinced that the dialogue takes place under normal conditions, as soon as two people talk to each other. Yet, even in love, the situation is not equal if one dominates the other. The same applies to labour relations: in one case of domination of one another, the report is not free. Let's get to the bottom. What is a social public order? That is why we are the guarantors as Members. I will say a word about this when we come to the explanations of vote on the article, but from this moment on I want to tell you that the disruption that will be introduced into our law will be worse than ever. In all other European countries, to benefit from a company agreement or a branch agreement, one must be a member of the trade union which has signed and have in front of it a boss who has signed with the trade union. That's how it goes! That is why we are so unionized in the rest of Europe. But in France, where the level of unionisation is lower, when a branch agreement is signed, and it is necessarily on the basis of the principle of favour, which means that it must be better – and forgive me to tell you, rapporteur, that this is not theoretical – it extends to the whole branch. In other words, 90% of French workers are covered by collective agreement agreements, which is not the case in countries where employers' unions and workers' unions are voluntarily negotiated. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] The Republic is larger to put social order than the contract. That is what separates me from the President of the Republic and political philosophy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u138	The rapporteur, Laurent Pietraszewski, has the floor to support Amendment No. 287.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u139	This is a precise amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u140	I have before me two amendments, Nos 253 and 426, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Vercamer to support Amendment No. 253.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u141	Of course, our group is not opposed to social dialogue in the company, on the contrary. I had tabled an amendment to that effect when I considered the Macron bill for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities. Unfortunately, the then Minister of Economy, who is now President of the Republic, had not retained him. We therefore agree on the principle, provided that competition between companies is not distorted. If competition is distorted, there is no longer a market possible and it is the door open to social dumping and other abuses that are likely to plunge companies into serious economic difficulties. The aim of this amendment is therefore to ensure that negotiations at company level will not distort competition between undertakings within the same industry. This gives the industry a regulatory role which it has always assumed. Madam Minister, you mentioned a number of different circumstances in which the industry would dominate, while the company agreement would take precedence in other cases. It is true that certain subjects have no effect on the conditions of competition: in this case, the primacy given to the enterprise agreement will not distort competition between firms in the same sector. I therefore conclude that the adoption of my amendment will not disrupt the orders that you have already negotiated with the unions, as you yourself pointed out earlier, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u142	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 426.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u143	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u145	The committee was not very inventive: after having rejected similar amendments during the examination of the text, it is against those tabled by our colleagues Francis Vercamer and Gilles Lurton in the sitting. We understand the purpose of these amendments, and the guarantee that you are proposing, based on the idea that the branch should be strengthened in its role of economic and social regulation, does not seem to contradict the guidelines adopted by the Government. If I am not opposed to this idea on the merits, it does not necessarily seem useful to me to provide this clarification at the empowerment stage. As I said, I am not very comfortable with the proposed terminology. Fair and undistorted competition is a very economic concept; Traditionally, its control is rather the responsibility of the Autorité de la concurrence. So these words would find their place in our bill rather poorly. You have in mind the idea of regulation in the branch: of which act, but regulation is already the role of the branch. Therefore, in my view, this clarification is superfate and we have no interest in adding it to the bill. The minister may wish to supplement my explanation, but the committee has rejected both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u147	Mr Vercamer, I am not opposed to the spirit of your amendment, but I note a small legal difficulty with its wording. Indeed, the Autorité de la concurrence is the only one that can guarantee economic regulation. However, the wording of your amendment is so broad that it is felt that the company agreement must respect all the elements of competition in the industry, which, of course, cannot fall exclusively within the scope of the industry agreement. I understand the spirit in which you drafted your amendment: you want to avoid any social dumping, any distortion of competition through social channels. However, the law already provides that the branch agreement plays a regulatory role, and the wording of your amendment poses a real problem as we would conflict with the powers of the Autorité de la concurrence. This is more a problem of form than of philosophy. For these reasons, I am sorry to agree with the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u148	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u149	In fact, the rapporteur, the minister, you agree with my amendment, but you find it ill-written. There is a very simple way to remedy this: sub-amend my amendment! I trust what you tell me, but the devil always hides in the details. It is not of interest to clarify in the draft law that business agreements can be concluded provided that they do not create unfair competition between companies in the sector: this constitutes a safeguard for the future and helps to prevent these companies from experiencing economic difficulties following a social agreement. I understand that my amendment is not well drafted, but I will accept your sub-amendment with pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u150	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 189 and 337. Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 189, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u151	This amendment is intended to delete paragraph 3. Since pedagogy also involves repetition, I would like to repeat that, despite repeated denials by the Minister of Labour, Article 1 does indeed invert the hierarchy of norms. Contrary to what you say, Madam Minister, this inversion denies the role of unions in the company, as you get used to social dialogue. This may not have escaped you, but to establish a dialogue, it is necessary to be two! Instead of this dialogue, you are advocating the use of a corporate referendum. You will not make anyone believe that such a consultation will not take place under the compulsion of blackmail to employment. As for TPEs and SMEs, which you brandish as a shield to make forget that the MEDEF holds your pen, it is quite obvious that they will be carried away, with their employees, by the widespread social dumping that you organise. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If you claim to fight mass unemployment through this reform, you are wrong in your fight. Six million job seekers are waiting for the recovery through an ecological transition and the sharing of working time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u152	I call Mr Bruneel to support Amendment No. 337.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u153	The purpose of this amendment is to limit the scope of orders relating to the primacy given to business agreements. The proposed new articulation, which is in line with the El Khomri Act, aims to generalize the primacy given to business agreements in violation of public order norms and industry agreements. Such provisions, which turn their backs on the principle of favour on which labour law has been built, pave the way for a regression negotiation in the service of flexibility, which is detrimental to both employees and small businesses. I note, moreover, that employers' organisations representing small businesses are largely against the idea of making the enterprise agreement the centrepiece of labour law. In an interview published by Les Échos on 14 June 2017, Alain Griset, President of the Union des Entreprises de Proximité and representative of artisans, said: "For companies with less than twenty employees, the company agreement cannot be the rule. » All the reforms undertaken over the last 20 years in the field of labour law have consistently promoted derogatory negotiation at company level. We know the consequences for workers: increasing the workload without increasing wages, developing pay schedules, increasing flexibility, weakening the protections so far guaranteed by law. What we need, on the contrary, is a re-establishment of the hierarchy of standards and a strengthening of branch negotiations to avoid practices of social optimisation or "social dumping". [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Despite these findings, you now propose that we go even further in challenging the labour code. We cannot subscribe to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u154	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u155	The commission rejected them. I understand Mr Prud'homme's argument, but his amendment is very similar to the one that was presented earlier. We remain in principle positions. As you have understood, the committee wants this text to live its life: that is why it has rejected this amendment. As for the argument put forward by Mr Bruneel, I shall take up only one element. I understand that I didn't necessarily reassure you about everything, but I'm also trying to be a little pedagogue. I would remind you, therefore, that the provisions of public policy will remain so: they will remain unchanged. We shall perhaps be discussing this later on when we consider other amendments. Neither tomorrow nor today, it will be possible to derogate from these public policy provisions by means of a branch or company agreement. On the other hand, I have already mentioned subsidiarity, recalling that local actors and the company will have the opportunity to lay down certain rules as close as possible to those concerned. Of course, this will not deprive the industry of a legal monopoly, and it will not prevent it from imposing rules on companies in its sector on many issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u156	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u157	In my view, it is necessary to repeat, repeat... may arrive at the moment when our explanations will be understood. Article 1 seeks to empower the Government to rewrite all the provisions of the Labour Code in order to establish the primacy of enterprise agreements over agreements and branch agreements, national professional and interprofessional, to the detriment of employees. The reversal of the hierarchy of norms that the Government could operate on the basis of this article, which empowers it to make the company the centre of social bargaining, plunges the employees into a legal uncertainty that is harmful to them. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The purpose of this amendment is to restore the principle of the hierarchy of social norms according to the principle of favour within the framework of the different levels of collective bargaining, in order to maintain the existence of a social public order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u158	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u159	Mr Ratenon, the presentation of your amendment shows that I was not convincing. Of which act. Your amendment aims to return to the situation applicable before the 2004 law – this is clearer than in the previous amendments – since it would be a matter of re-establishing a strict principle of favour at the level of business agreements. It has been recalled earlier that the laws of 2004, 2008 and 2016 allow for derogation by company agreement from the rules laid down by branch agreement – moreover, this does not mean that it is possible to negotiate everything and anything at company level. Your reasoning does not fully take into account the fact that there is a legal basis of public policy: I repeat that the latter will not move and that it is absolutely not possible to derogate from it. It is in this foundation that all the principles that guarantee the rights and protections of employees are included. To take a different example from the one mentioned earlier, I will refer to the maximum working hours. Since the 2016 law, it is possible to derogate by way of an enterprise agreement from the maximum working hours, if any, provided for by the branch, but in any event, maximum legal periods of public policy apply. For example, the maximum weekly duration is 48 hours: this provision was of public policy before 2016 and has remained so since then. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u160	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 409.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u161	This is a withdrawal amendment, to which you referred a few moments ago. We propose that the new articulation of the social standards that you intend to implement comply with the public policy provisions, i.e. the mandatory rules from which it is not possible to derogate such as the SMIC, the legal working time or the rules on dismissal. Article 1 is intended to give primacy to the enterprise agreement, but it is never specified what will happen to public policy provisions. As it stands, the writing used leaves all doors open. If the Minister of Labour has suggested that the SMIC or 35 hours will remain of public policy, then all other topics, including those related to health and safety, could be referred to corporate bargaining or, failing that, to branch bargaining. [[Laugh. – Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] In order to guarantee the essential legal protections enjoyed by employees, we propose the addition of the words "in accordance with the provisions of public policy" to article 1, paragraph 3. As my grandmother said, "it goes without saying it, you say, but it goes better by saying it, let's say."
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u163	[[Smile]] We have a thought for our colleague's grandmother.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u164	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u165	This is a positive thought, because the committee accepted Amendment No 409, which I personally support. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the REM group]] It is clear, both in my mind and in the minister's, that the provisions of public policy will be respected. You are giving us an opportunity to demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u167	[[Applause on various benches]] Like the rapporteur, I am in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u168	Mr. Wulfranc can say thank you to his grandmother!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u169	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u170	The law in force lists six areas in which the primacy of the branch agreement is exercised – minimum wages, classifications, collective guarantees of foresight, pooling of vocational training funds, occupational equality, prevention of penitibility. On the other hand, it is up to the negotiators of the branch agreement to define the areas in which the branch may object to any company-wide adaptation. At the risk of appearing redundant – this provision is already included in the texts – it seems important to clarify that, in the future, the order, and then, after ratification, the law will expressly define, in a closed list, the areas in which the branch can now lock up the business agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u172	Favourable opinion. It is understandable and useful that the law should provide for a precise list of areas within the exclusive competence of the branch and those in which the branch retains the possibility of locking. In areas not defined by law, business agreements would take precedence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u174	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Favourable opinion. This welcome clarification, which is in line with my introductory remarks, in which I called for a clear definition of the various blocks of areas, will enhance the clarity of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u175	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 435.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u176	As a result of our discussions and exchanges in committee, we believe that it is useful to supplement the concept of business with that of establishment. In law, the law covers in principle this one, but, for clarity, it may be appropriate to state this. In the continuity of the amendments relating to the scope of the establishment agreements made in certain areas by the Act of 8 August 2016 on labour, the modernisation of social dialogue and the securing of professional paths, the aim of this amendment is to clarify the scope of the establishment agreement. Implicitly targeted, the settlement agreement will now be explicit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u178	I am in favour of this coherent amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u179	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 357.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u180	As we move forward, perhaps this House is proposing to clarify the bill. Since the committees have met, we repeat that the text distinguishes three areas: the one where it cannot legally be derogated from the branch agreement; the one in which the branch may prohibit any derogation therefrom; the one where the company agreement takes precedence. As an illustrious minister of labour would say, "when it's blurred, it's because there's a wolf." The law contains several areas of blur, which we propose to remedy by this precision amendment. It aims to specify the areas in which the branch agreement will have to take precedence, adding to the measures of public policy that Hubert Wulfranc's grandmother has allowed us to specify the following areas: minimum wages, classifications, collective guarantees of foresight, pooling of funds for vocational training, occupational equality, prevention of penitibility. The list, which is not exhaustive, can be expanded during the evening. In this way, Minister, you are measuring our willingness to help correct the imprecision about the reversal of standards, which no one seems to want today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u181	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u182	Unfavorable opinion. The fields mentioned in the amendment do not cover the elements that the Government wishes to include in this legal monopoly of the branch. It is also intended to have exclusive competence in the management and quality of employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u184	Unfavorable opinion. As I have indicated, we have conducted an in-depth consultation on this subject, at the end of which we have gone from six to twelve areas, into two different blocks. In the spirit of the previous amendment, we intend to include these areas in a very precise and clear way, not to return to the state of thought before the conciliation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u185	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u186	Here we encounter the problem of method that we have been denouncing for several days. Indeed, the minister says that we have to wait for the agreement to clarify, while we insist that there was no urgency to legislate that way. We propose that this text be enriched by the wisdom and knowledge that parliamentarians have of business realities. Pierre Dharréville noted that the Government was not asking for a blank cheque, but for a bank card and its code. In clarifying the text, we do not allow the executive to do what it wants in terms of employee protection. It is Parliament's role, it is the role of the law to provide for the unpredictable and to protect the weakest, if social dialogue is not there, which still happens from time to time. Remember Palace Parfums, a company described by François Fillon as a "goal", a company that moves between Christmas and New Year's Day, which exploits its employees as modern slaves – this is also the reality of work, for example in the Bresle Valley. By specifying in the text the measures of protection of employees by branch, we avoid exaggerations, which amount to giving a bank card and its code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u187	I call Mr Mignola to support Amendment No. 266.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u188	Having recalled our group's position on Article 1, and its commitment to insert the concept of corporate social responsibility – CSR – into the elements of the blocks, whether they are of a limiting branch or of a specifying branch, if it is permitted to call them so. This is an important choice, which would be a first step towards inclusion in the labour code and in the law of our country, so that companies take a general approach to this effort of corporate social responsibility and support for the smallest of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u190	Unfavorable opinion. Madam Minister, if you agree, I will leave it to you to complete this opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u191	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u192	The promotion of corporate social and environmental responsibility, which seems to be the subject of general agreement, has two advantages: on the one hand, it gives a more comprehensive view of the company's stakeholders; On the other hand, it leads to questions of long-term strategy, which ultimately benefit employees, the company and its environment. Legally, in a definition adopted in 2011, the European Commission considers CSR as "the responsibility of companies for their effects on society". "Companies, in close collaboration with their stakeholders, should have engaged in a process to integrate social, environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer concerns into their business activities and core strategy. » With this in mind, it is up to companies to assume their responsibilities, which are now defined by European law and directives, and which are soon to be implemented in a decree, in order to disseminate more non-financial information. That is why this concept has not been incorporated into the locked devices of the branch agreements, which, moreover, answer an earlier question. Such provisions depend on companies, although, I would point out, sectoral agreements may relate to other sectors, without them being locked in. They will be able to lead the way for certain recommendations for businesses. The branch can therefore be an incentive. Strengthening corporate responsibility in this area is, in the short and long term, very valuable, to move towards a business logic and vision that truly takes into account internal and external stakeholders. The Government, while in favour of the overall momentum involved in CSR, is therefore opposed to including CSR in an article of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u193	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 289.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u194	Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u195	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 405.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u196	Article 1 seeks to define strictly the areas in which industry agreements or professional agreements will take precedence, and to give primacy to enterprise agreements in all other fields. The Government thus makes business agreements the rule and the agreement or branch agreement, the exception. It is not only a fragmentation of employee law, but also an increase in competition between enterprises through social dumping that is expected. The idea is to free up legal constraints currently protecting employees and to allow the free play of the market to organize the reduction of wages. As economist David Cayla rightly stated, "the bet is that, under the present conditions of a high unemployment rate, the more free the market will be, the more employees will be forced to reduce their demands and therefore the lower the cost of labour." The primacy of the enterprise agreement over the employment contract is therefore consistent with the lack of a boost to the SMIC and the freezing of the official index point, to follow up the absurd race for competitiveness against the interests of employees and against the interests of our small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as our SMEs are concerned, sectoral negotiations do not only protect employees, but also companies. By negotiating at the industry level, companies in the same sector suspend competition and ensure that good practices are respected everywhere. They thus prohibit dumping, i.e. unfair competition. Allowing companies to derogate from these agreements is tantamount to allowing them to exit from the common framework, which leads to an exacerbation of competition and leads them to face performance criteria rather than the disloyalty of practices. The primacy of branch agreements is therefore an essential element of economic regulation. That is also the meaning of this withdrawal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u198	The committee rejected this amendment. The substance of the amendment seems to me to contradict the objectives of the bill, and even the demands of the trade union organizations that we heard in committee last Wednesday.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u200	Same unfavorable opinion. I would point out, in order for everyone to be enlightened, that a locked branch agreement, which is binding on all, cannot be derogated from in the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u201	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 364.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u202	With this amendment, we propose that the most protective provisions of employees' rights should be enshrined in professional agreements and industry agreements. Your project, Madam Minister, risks reducing the most basic rights in unprecedented proportions: the right to health, which cannot be dissociated from the maximum weekly working time or from the framework of night work; the right to a family life, which is combined with respect for paid leave and Sunday rest; the right to security and premiums related to certain activities; the right to overtime and to a compulsory allowance on rest. The freedom you want to defend, which you claim to be, risks being nothing but the freedom to exploit even more the work of those who are "nothing", to take up a recent and unfortunate expression. In this sense, this project is contrary to the general interest and cohesion guaranteed by our republican pact. Labour law does not only concern businesses or work life. It affects everyone's entire social life and development. By this amendment, we defend what we should no longer have to defend for a long time: the right to dignity, the right of everyone to a dignified life, to dignified remuneration, to dignified working conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u203	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 290.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u204	This amendment is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u205	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 113 and 342. I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u206	This is to allow the Government to allow "less restrictive provisions for small businesses", which means, if I translate your novlangue, at least the so-called social provisions for employees. As far as it is not at least so-called, the common law makes it possible to deal with a whole series of subjects which you have mentioned earlier and which can be dealt with in the context of labour law. The fact that 36,000 company agreements are signed each year shows that it is possible to make adjustments according to the specific characteristics of the company. Madam Minister, I have been asking you a question that I have wanted to ask you for a while, because it concerns your entire system of reversing the hierarchy of standards: in what areas are you going to reduce the rights of employees in TPEs and SMEs? Hours of work? This has already been done by the El Khomri Law. The other areas in which the branch agreement takes precedence? They include penitibility, vocational training and equality between men and women. In which areas do you want this so-called "less" to apply? We will be told that we are not on the side of SMEs. But if we want to help them, there is a lever: business taxation. The CICE has favoured large companies, certainly not TPEs or SMEs. The taxation in force today in France is deeply unfair: the CAC 40 business tax rate is close to zero and, even for large companies, it is about 18%, while, if my memory is good, it is approaching 40% for TPEs and SMEs. To help them, it is necessary to ensure that their order books are completed, so that an investment policy can be carried out that allows them to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Autain.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u208	Let me make one final point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u209	You have already far exceeded your speaking time, ma'am.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u210	Madam Minister, if we favour large companies at the expense of small ones in terms of working conditions, a good mason will go to Bouygues and not to a craftsman...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Autain.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u212	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Is that the model you want?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u213	I call Mr Lecoq to support Amendment No. 342.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u214	This amendment is intended to delete paragraph 4, which deals with the possibility for small businesses to derogate from branch agreements. Through this provision, the Government wants to allow for the adaptation in small enterprises of certain clauses of the branch agreement. Some undertakings could therefore derogate from the provisions of the sectoral agreement which apply to all those in the same sector of activity. But the Government does not define what is meant by "small business": does it have five, ten, fifty employees? In Germany – since your references are often European – it seems to me that the company agreements are concluded on the basis of a minimum of five employees and that the Germans are fighting today for this workforce to be reduced to three employees. That is to say, there is still a way to go. In any event, it would be useful to clarify that point. Similarly, no derogation criteria are set out, leaving room for the executive to make the application of branch agreements optional. Beyond this risky drafting, we believe that such a measure is dangerous, because it would involve a right of work à la carte, according to companies, which, as my colleagues have said, would encourage social dumping within the same sector of activity. This is the door open to a scattering of labour law, to the detriment of the rights enjoyed by employees in small enterprises. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR group]] It is in order to avoid the race at least so-called social that we propose the deletion of this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u216	The committee rejected these two amendments. Their arguments underline the fragility of small businesses; This paragraph allows for the protection of the specificities of the latter by allowing the adjustment of the rules applicable to TPEs and SMEs in the framework of the sectoral agreements and agreements. This method of differentiation makes it possible to take into account the particular problems of small businesses. It would be a shame to abandon this trail before we explored it. Let's let the negotiations go!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u217	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u218	Same unfavorable opinion. I have already answered about the sectors in which branch agreements take precedence and whose number is increasing from six to twelve, in particular to take into account small enterprises, precisely: it is absolutely necessary to ask the branches – in your opinion – to take an interest in small enterprises to ensure that the social norm is adapted. In reality, this approach seems to be the subject of general agreement; We differ on the method, but perhaps not so much on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u219	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u220	Among the objectives of the draft law is the definition of the conditions for adapting certain provisions of the sectoral agreement to TPEs and SMEs, in order to bring them into line with the specificities of the company and the expectations of the employees. You have insisted on this, Madam Minister, which is of great interest to us too. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The aim of this amendment is to clarify the balance point of the order, which must both simplify the lives of companies and guarantee the protection of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u221	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u222	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u223	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u224	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Same opinion. The measure will help small businesses: on the one hand, the branch agreement will provide for the adaptation of certain provisions to small businesses and, on the other, it will provide them with a frame of reference by the counterparties. This will encourage the development of social dialogue within small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u226	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 132, 349 and 437. On these identical amendments, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. None of its signatories taking the floor, I believe that Amendment No 132 is being defended. I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 349.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u227	This is again the primacy of the collective agreement over the employment contract. The text here provides for changes to the legal regime governing the termination of the employment contract in the event of the employee refusing to accept amendments to his contract resulting from a collective agreement, in particular a working time arrangement, an employment retention agreement or an employment development agreement, known as competitiveness agreements. At present, if the employee refuses his new working conditions, he often enjoys the right to economic dismissal, accompanied by the employer's obligations in this area: the obligation to reclassify, the right to a contract of occupational security which allows for better compensation for unemployment. It means, when you get fired, being justly and legitimately compensated! What about tomorrow? Under the pretext of harmonisation and simplification – but we know that simplification always goes in the same direction – the adopted wording suggests that any refusal by the employee to allow himself to be imposed a modification of his employment contract, often at a discount – a reduction in pay, an increase in working time – will suffice to justify dismissal for real and serious reasons. It is clear that the aim of the measure is not to secure employment or the employee, but to secure employers while discouraging employees by reducing their legal protections. That is why we are calling for the deletion of these provisions. Our amendment is clear; Perhaps we have not insisted enough, but, in law, the contract counts. However, the way in which you see what is like a break in labour law calls into question the fundamentals of the law, with regard to the contract between an employee and his employer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u228	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 437.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u229	Paragraph 5, which we too propose to delete, revives an old debate, which is well-known in the previous Committee on Social Affairs and in the previous House: it is a question of examining again the reason for dismissal in the case of an employee who refuses to be covered by the provisions of an employment agreement. In 2016, our assembly's position had been clear and argued – I asked for a public vote on these amendments so that we could compare the votes of those who voted for one thing in 2016 and now ask for its opposite. In our view, this must be a dismissal on economic grounds and not a dismissal on personal grounds. In this case, the ground for dismissal is external to the person of the employee. The question arises as to whether the position is balanced. Abandonment of the economic grounds would enable the employer to waive its obligation to reclassify, deprive the employee of any contract of occupational security or reclassification leave and reduce his unemployment benefit by 75 % of his gross monthly remuneration, which is applicable in the event of dismissal on economic grounds, to only 57 %. This is unacceptable to us, because it does not reflect a balanced agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u231	The committee rejected these amendments. As I explain amply in my report, there are several types of agreements which have consequences for the duration of work and the remuneration of the employee: the RTT agreements, the working time modulation agreements, the employment retention agreements, which have been mentioned, or the agreements on the preservation and development of employment. We have laid down specific provisions applicable to the cases of the employee refusing to apply this agreement. Today, however, there are almost as many schemes as there are types of agreements. This situation is not satisfactory for both employers and employees, who receive different treatment and support depending on the types of agreements that apply. Harmonisation is therefore more than welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u234	Unfavorable, too. These agreements have come from different texts produced over the last seventeen years. Of course, this was not the intention of the legislator, but this multiplication of very similar norms complicates access to the real right, because all this seems unclear, both for employees and for employers. I challenge anyone, including me, either employer or responsible for a union of employees, to explain the four cases in detail without resorting to legal advice. In keeping with the spirit of these measures, which are good in substance, harmonization must be achieved. Greater clarity of the law will enable it to be exercised under better conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u235	The clarity of the law is less legal for employees!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u236	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u237	This is a serious and important subject. I am not sure that all employees, as we speak, are aware of the seriousness of what we are talking about. Much sleep at this hour; others, those who can, are on the road to the holidays; Still others are at work, because there are night workers, and they cannot watch television. The text provides that an employee's refusal to modify his employment contract may be dismissed without real and serious cause. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR Group and the FI Group]] It also provides that, even if the collective agreement is illegal, even if it has not been appealed within time and under conditions not specified in your text, and while the prerogatives of the judge are diminished, it will still be able to apply and put the employment contract to a crumble. It's purely scandalous! It is the very negation of the foundations of law. That the Assembly and the Government crumble the law in this way is, even at this hour, something unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u238	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 132, 349 and 437.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u239	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 438.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u240	The purpose of this amendment is to delete, after the word "recourse", the end of paragraph 5. The reference to "if any" is not acceptable, as it casts doubt on the Government's intentions. Does he intend to go back to the rules governing the modification and termination of the employment contract? It is essential that its intentions in this area be clarified, as required by the Constitution. This paragraph refers to the question of the legal regime for breach of contract in case of refusal of amendments resulting from a collective agreement, which is one of the most debated. The question of compliance with International Labour Organization Convention No. 158 is regularly raised, as it was also raised by the Council of State in its opinion to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u241	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u242	I confess that I did not understand the wording of this amendment. I assume that it would be intended to rewrite paragraph 5 as follows: "Harmonize and simplify the conditions of appeal", without further clarification, since the amendment would remove several elements. I would like to reassure you: it is not a question of completely reviewing the content of the agreements, but only to the extent that they have to be taken into account in the light of the harmonisation and simplification adopted. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u243	You have the floor, Mr Vallaud, to support Amendment No 458.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u244	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u245	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u246	This amendment seems to us to be drafted in a coherent manner. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u247	On Amendment No 440, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 440.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u248	There are four different schemes, which follow four different procedures, which lead to four different grounds for dismissal and give rise to four different forms of support for employees. Paragraph 5 proposes to harmonize and simplify – terms that cannot be more vague and that do not allow for alignment from the top – these regimes. By this amendment, we wish to reiterate our commitment to the economic motive or sui generis motive with the consequences of an economic motive. It is not necessary, in our view, to go back to these different regimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u249	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u250	The question is: what happens when the employee does not accept changes to his contract resulting from a collective agreement? I would like to point out that the only case in which the refusal of the employee remains a non-economic ground is that of the RTT agreements implemented under the Aubry II Act. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u252	Also unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u253	I put to the vote Amendment No. 440.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u254	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 291.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u255	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u256	On Amendment No 441, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u257	I will not go back to the reasons for this amendment, because I have already had the opportunity to present them. However, the answers we received did not reassure us of the alignment from the top of the four existing regimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u259	Unfavorable. For fear of not being much more persuasive than in my previous replies to Mr Vallaud, I shall stick to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u260	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u261	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u262	I put to the vote Amendment No 441.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u263	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 354.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u264	In many of the territories – forgotten and humiliated territories of the Republic – courts have been abolished: courts of full exercise, councils of prud'hommes, commercial courts. Thus, many of our fellow citizens see the decision of justice moving away from them. Let us not forget that, in the anger expressed in the elections, this humiliation played a major role. Not content with abolishing the advice of prud'hommes, not content with distorting even the mode of election to these councils, the article provides for limiting the judge's control over collective agreements, by reversing the burden of proof and reducing the time limits for contesting an agreement, as if one did not trust the prud'homal judge. While this bill intends to refer to corporate bargaining the enactment of essential rules of social norms, this provision is intended solely to secure employers, making it increasingly difficult to challenge agreements that would be contrary to the law. The aim of this amendment is to restore the order of things in this area, by again making it easier to refer, in time more compatible with social reality, to the judges working in the same area. The purpose of this withdrawal amendment is to remove the provisions that limit these possibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u265	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u266	The committee rejected the amendment to delete paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. Paragraph 6 seeks to take account of developments in case law, which now tends to give the parties involved in collective bargaining legitimacy in principle, as to the legality of the norm which they enact through collective agreements. Paragraph 7 is to secure the application of collective agreements, with regard to the possibilities of denunciation by trade unions and professional organizations, with a five-year limitation, without rebutting the possibility that an employee may at any time lodge an appeal against a treaty provision which he considers to be a complaint to him. Paragraph 8 does not introduce anything new, since the judge can already modify the effects of his decisions over time. It is simply planned to codify this possibility in order to secure it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u267	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u268	As I pointed out earlier, once the principle of favour is no longer established, it is the law itself that is relativized. Under the new provisions, the fate of workers can only be changed in a less restrictive or less favourable way. If the principle of favour no longer applies, it is a principle of disadvantage that replaces it; Above all, the scope of the law recedes and is lost in the clouds of the general norm. Here's a new clue. I know that the starting point of your thinking is the idea expressed by the President of the Republic, whose logical and philosophical framework I know well. He summarized it by referring to the girondina Republic, and for those who would not have understood it correctly, he said that it was a contractual Republic. But the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be contractual: it knows only the law, the same for all. With the principle of disfavor, the law evaporates, and here is one of the most precise clues: the judge no longer has the power to deal with a situation himself. What is the judge? The judge is the law; he is the guarantor and the applicator. If you prevent him from intervening in his own motion and you ask for the reversal of the burden of proof, then you ask everyone to take care of their contract. And here you are to the substance of the contractual republic: not only is there no more a common rule, but the one who protects and executes it the most severe and rigorous, the judge, has no longer the right to intervene on his own initiative in the dispute. That is why Amendment No 125 is at the heart of the principles that we are defending before you, although it does not seem so. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr President, I would ask you to re-establish the chronometer so that we can better control our speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u269	There has never been a chronometer for the amendments. The speaking time is limited to two minutes, and I believe that I am applying this rule with some flexibility. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 125?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u270	The amendment was rejected by the committee for the same reasons as before. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u272	Unfavorable, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u273	Mr Frédéric Descrozaille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u274	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and the MODEM group]] We find the same arguments as before, and we have to repeat ours. It is not true that the law evaporates. It is reduced to the essential: it will therefore be better known. Protection that takes place despite protected persons does not respect them. It's about making them feel responsible. The law will be known to the persons to whom it applies. It is simply a matter of giving more space and room for manoeuvre to contractual negotiations. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and the MODEM group]] In Mr Mélenchon's view of the contract, the employee's signature is virtually useless. It would suffice for the employer to say: this is the law that applies and, if you do not know how to sign, put a cross. It is about empowering people and making them able to negotiate for themselves what will apply to their own working conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u275	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u276	The sooner the time goes by, the clearer the positions and the clearer things become.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u277	With you, it's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u278	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We are told, at La République en marche, that the objective is to limit the law; on the pretext that a number of rights have difficulty in existence, we are told that it is better to remove them in order to take this reality into account; We are analysing the differences between formal freedoms and real freedoms by proposing to abolish all rights, in order to clarify the situation. Well, you are right to say that you have an ideological project: it is the world of Yes-Yes applied to the company and especially the laissez-faire, the laissez-passer and the laissez-licencier that the employees will discover as your bad law will apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u279	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 292.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u280	It is an amendment of precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u282	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u283	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u284	This amendment is intended to delete paragraph 7, which proposes, in vague terms, an amendment to the rules of appeal. It is not a question of considering that colleagues in the majority or the Constructive Group are in bad faith; But, in the face of imprecise formulations, we should trust a government whose members have also been members of governments that have applied laws – the El Khomri law or the Macron law – which, as we know today, do not have the effect of protecting employees more, nor do they have the effect of reviving the economy, which is the clear objective of all these deregulations, but which, on the contrary, have restricted the rights of employees, including in judicial matters. We call for the deletion of this paragraph because we do not have the means to clarify in the text what it is – even though it should be our role. Is it a question of giving more tools to employees and their representatives to be able to challenge company agreements that would be unfavourable to them? Is it a question of giving more means to this dialogue which you call so much of your wishes? Is it a matter of putting the law on the side of citizens and employees? We fear that this is not the opposite, not by ideology, but because that is what we have been observing in the day-to-day since the implementation of the Macron, Rebsamen and El Khomri laws. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We should do a work of clarification, but all we are asked to do is sign a blank cheque with general words that actually go against rights and the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u285	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u286	Paragraph 7 has been dealt with twice; the argument remains the same. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u287	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u288	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u289	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u290	Cicero said: "We are all the slaves of the laws so that we may be free. With this law, which provides for the reversal of the hierarchy of norms, as our colleague has just pointed out, it is the law that is limited, and with it freedom. This paragraph gives us a new example. As has been said, this bill provides for the creation of a schedule for compensation for the employment of workers, which would make it possible to make known exactly the cost of a dismissal. So what security would the CDI offer? No more! It is once again the reign of precariousness that settles. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] But with this paragraph, we go even further: the precarisation of the employee is not enough, we must precarise the licensee. In fact, time-modulation of the effects of decisions would necessarily be at the disadvantage of employees, since at present this possibility does not exist for the judge and employees are the main beneficiaries of decisions taken by the courts. This provision, Madam Minister, once again calls into question the principle of favour; That is why we propose to delete this paragraph.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u291	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u292	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u293	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u294	Unfavorable opinion. Modulation of the effects of a court decision over time is now possible and recognized by the Council of State. However, it is rarely applied, whereas the cancellation of a collective agreement at the end of an action may have very significant or even unbearable consequences for an enterprise. In fact, the annulment of the agreement by the court places all the employees concerned in the situation where they would have been in before the conclusion of an agreement. This creates a high degree of uncertainty and confusion for everyone. A codification of this principle, recommended by the Council of State, seems useful in order to understand the norm and the margin of discretion left to the judge whose responsibility remains, of course, complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u295	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 133 and 358. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 133.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u296	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u297	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 358.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u298	Mr President, just two years after the Rebsamen law on social dialogue, the Government intends to recast the rules for corporate bargaining and consultation of staff representatives, with a view to making them more flexible. Each undertaking would be allowed to adapt by agreement the periodicity and content of the mandatory annual negotiations and consultations beyond the limits that currently exist. This is a new example of what this enabling law promises: to violate rights now contained in the law. For example, the periodicity of compulsory negotiations, such as those on wages or occupational equality, can already be adjusted by agreement, the only restriction being that negotiations must take place at least every three years, against each year before the Rebsamen law. In recent years, regressions have already been included in the law. If further flexibilities were to come into force, it would mean that compulsory negotiations would become almost optional, at the expense of employees' rights, which would have to wait several years to see their remuneration improved or their working conditions improved. This provision therefore illustrates, once again, the twofold discourse that this debate has revealed. On the contrary, it seems urgent to strengthen the prerogatives of trade unions and staff representatives to acquire new social rights in companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u299	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u300	Unfavorable. This amendment proposes the deletion of the subparagraph which provides for the authorisation, by collective agreement, to adapt the periodicity of mandatory consultations and negotiations in undertakings, their content and the operating procedures of the economic and social database which represents the support for collective bargaining and the information and consultation of staff representative bodies. As indicated in your presentation, the Rebsamen Act of 2015 has already opened the possibility of making adjustments in this area, by way of a corporate agreement. The aim is to go further, in order to improve the quality of collective bargaining and the consultation of staff representative bodies, and no doubt to deepen them, since the topics chosen will be better adapted to the specificities of companies. Furthermore, I do not understand the argument raised in the summary statement of Amendment No 459 concerning the risk of incompatibility of these provisions with the International Labour Organisation Convention C135, in so far as it is not intended to withdraw anything from elected staff representatives or trade union delegates of competence. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u302	Opinions were also unfavourable. The whole logic of the text is to trust the social partners. It is not a question of allowing unilateral decisions by the employer, but of allowing the partners, by agreement, to decide on their social agenda, i.e. to abandon formal negotiations for substantive negotiations. Many union delegates point to this problem: the very formal dialogue in which they are locked up does not always allow them to get the progress and the debates they want. One example is that companies that have succeeded in achieving equal pay for men and women have all needed a three-year agreement. Indeed, only three successive mandatory annual negotiations resolve the problem. Often, the formal side of the year prevents it, because the annuality of the debate allows the problem to always be put back to the next day. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and the MODEM group. – Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] Of course, the measure presupposes that there is a corporate agreement because it is not a matter of doing fewer negotiations, but of better negotiations. For some subjects, a two- or three-year periodicity, which represents an action plan, can be a social step forward. Again, the only thing that separates us all is that some trust the social partners, and others do not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u303	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u304	Although this project is vague, it is coherent in its entirety, at least from an ideological point of view, since, thanks to the blind confidence that you place in collective agreements, it will allow the Director of Human Resources, when unions are too combative or offensive, to designate a more complacent one, through which he will be able to pass the agreement by referendum and often by exerting some pressure, in order to remove rights to employees. The Macron 1 law allows large areas like Auchan to dispense with the mayor's permission to open on Sundays, if they show that they have less than 50% of the food surface. In general, they arrange to compact the rays and achieve a result of 49%! If this is not enough, they form a "home" union, which validates the agreement, which then allows them to assign employees to the caisse every Sunday. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It is this reality that you want to generalize. We therefore propose that the law should provide for the periodicity of compulsory annual negotiations in collective agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u305	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u306	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u307	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u308	The meeting was resumed. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u309	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u310	I call Mr Pietraszewski to support Amendment No. 293.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u311	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u312	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 443.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u313	Paragraph 9 makes it possible to review, by agreement, the periodicity and content of the compulsory negotiations and to adapt the content and operating procedures of the economic and social database – BDES. The Social Dialogue and Employment Act of August 2015 had made it possible to reform consultation and negotiation times, while reaffirming the importance of professional equality between women and men. In fact, the legislator had incorporated into the BDES all the information which had to be transmitted to the works council on the basis of the comparative situation of women and men in the enterprise. Under this paragraph, as drafted today, the place of professional equality in compulsory negotiations is threatened as long as the company agreement can determine the content of the mandatory annual negotiations. Therefore, financial penalties for lack of agreement or action plan may disappear. That is why we wish to clarify the paragraph.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u315	Opinion in favour of this amendment which has the merit of looking at the penalty applicable to companies not covered by an agreement or action plan for occupational equality between women and men, where an agreement provides for a change in the periodicity of negotiations on this subject, which is by default annual. As far as I am aware, there is no intention of revisiting this rule, but the minister may be able to reassure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u316	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u317	We had no intention of going back to that rule at all, but I am in favour of this amendment, which removes any ambiguity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u318	Before giving the floor to Mrs Sabine Rubin, in support of Amendment No 121, I would like to point out that the sitting will be adjourned at one o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u319	This amendment is intended to delete paragraph 10 which authorizes the Government to define the conditions for the entry into force of the provisions adopted on the basis of points (a) to (f) of Article 1, in particular with regard to collective agreements in force. Throughout this session, the minister argued that the hierarchy of standards was not called into question. On the contrary, my colleagues have tried to prove to you that this project shows contrary intentions. I want a certain article to prove it. Article 45 of the Act of 4 May 2004 provides that "the hierarchical value accorded by their signatories to agreements and agreements concluded before the entry into force of this Act shall remain effective against agreements at lower levels". The purpose of article 1 (h) is to empower the Government to remove guarantees of non-retroactivity from the legislative provisions contained in the 2004 Act. We therefore ask you to adopt this amendment, which aims to maintain non-retroactivity as a guarantee of the hierarchy of standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u321	Unfavorable opinion. We have already mentioned the various laws of 2004, 2008, 2016, relating to the hierarchy of standards, and there is no need to develop new arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u322	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 294.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u323	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u324	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 188.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u325	I would like once again to address the most enduring Members of the House of Representatives of the Republic on the move. It is a question of deleting paragraphs 11 to 15, because we do not see what justifies the urgency, the urgency, to introduce such a device in this way. We were all elected, no doubt, thinking that we would be able to improve the well-being of the disabled, that of the social auxiliaries, that of the pensioners, making the planet more liveable for our children. But how can we believe that the priority, in order to make our planet more viable, to make our country better, is to make the labour market more flexible, to go through project contracts, to come to the reversal of the hierarchy of norms? Was that really what you wore in your hearts when you campaigned? Perhaps there is one who believes him: your leader, the President of the Republic, Mr. Macron. He also made it a form of orthodoxy. Aquilino Morelle made fun of it when he was an advisor to the Elysée, explaining that it was impossible to criticize the MEDEF in front of Mr Macron. Similarly, the reform of the prud'hommes had become such an obsession with him that his entourage kept mocking him about it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So you should know that Mr. Macron is an ideologist, a dogmatic. I am sure that many Members of the majority are not. No doubt you will follow the presidential will during the first weeks, perhaps the first months, but if you then persist in supporting such dogmatism, we risk going into the wall. I hope you will react soon. You can do this today by voting on this amendment, and then by not following this will to break the labour code, but rather by reflecting on the best way to break finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u326	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u327	The committee rejected this amendment, without dogmatism, because this bill aims to restore spaces for collective bargaining and social dialogue. I understand that we do not necessarily agree. For our part, we hope that collective bargaining will produce results within the company. In order to achieve this, it is imperative that the agreements reached have full legitimacy through the presence of the relevant actors around the negotiating table. This is why it is proposed to facilitate the modalities and conclusions of an agreement in companies without trade union representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u328	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 120, 365 and 444. On these amendments, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 120.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u329	The aim is to delete paragraph 12, which, in order to encourage negotiation in the undertaking with elected officials or employees to the detriment of the trade union delegate, is in contradiction with article 2, which provides for "promoting conditions for the establishment of trade unions and the exercise of trade union responsibilities". This provision therefore poses a problem of consistency. The trade union delegate, representing his organization in the company, is now the default negotiator; In his absence, it is possible to negotiate with elected officials, whether or not appointed by a trade union organisation, if not with employees appointed by a trade union organisation. But these possibilities are limited to certain subjects and are regulated by union validations or by referendum in the company. With this enabling bill, the Government could open as much as it wishes the possibility of using non-unionized or even elected negotiators. They could be elected officials or employees close to the employer. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The concept of facilitation is blurred enough that the path that the Government wishes to take cannot be deduced. To facilitate the possibility of negotiating for other actors that the trade union delegate would have the effect of inducing the employer not to favour the establishment of a trade union organisation in his company since he could usefully replace the trade union delegate with another negotiator. The elected representatives have less protection, less support and less training than the union delegate. This would necessarily reduce the quality of negotiations and the protection of workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u330	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u331	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 365.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u332	In keeping with the El Khomri Act, the Government intends to facilitate business negotiations in the absence of a trade union delegate by allowing elected staff without a trade union mandate to sign agreements. What is the rule of law today? To ensure fair negotiation, only trade unions can negotiate and sign agreements. They have collective rights of expression and action that protect them from pressure from the employer. But this provision has been considerably weakened by the Labour Act, which allows unlabelled elected officials to negotiate under certain conditions. Of course, in companies with less than fifty employees, they must be elected and empowered by a representative trade union organisation in the industry, and if they have not been mandated, they can only negotiate from a limited list of subjects – on an interest agreement for example. The purpose of this bill is to blow up these last safeguards, and would result in unlabelled elected officials signing agreements on matters as important as working time, health and safety or job preservation. How can we imagine that such a measure will strengthen social dialogue? Far from encouraging the development of the presence of trade unions in the company, the aim is once again to allow the circumvention of trade unions and the weakening of their power to defend employees. For this reason, members of the GDR group are requesting the withdrawal of this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u333	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 444.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u334	In the absence of a trade union delegate or a staff delegate designated as a trade union delegate in companies with less than fifty employees, all may negotiate collective agreements with elected officials appointed by a trade union organisation. In the absence of elected office, staff delegates may negotiate, conclude and revise certain collective agreements. Paragraph 12 may call into question the trade union monopoly and the legitimacy of trade union organisations to negotiate in the company by opening up the possibility of negotiating with other actors. As a result, field information may no longer go back to the level of the branch, which plays an essential role in the development of social dialogue and is an indispensable lever for its quality. That is why the members of the New Left are calling for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u335	What is the opinion of the committee on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u336	I would point out that the purpose of the authorization provided for in paragraph 12 is to go further in order to allow small businesses without trade union representatives to negotiate more collective agreements, which goes hand in hand with the upgrading of the business agreement proposed in the same article. This will not alter the current competencies of union delegates and is therefore not intended at all to circumvent or reduce their powers. That is why the committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u337	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u338	Unfavorable. This is not a problem of principle or logic, but an operational problem. I would remind you that 55% of employees work in companies with less than fifty employees. However, the law has long provided, with the agreement of all the actors concerned, that, under the primacy of trade unions, only the trade union delegate can negotiate on behalf of the employees, either directly or by mandate. This provision has existed since 1982. Almost forty years later, it must be noted that only 4% of small businesses have union delegates. The system doesn't work. Everyone can blame the other, but one must nevertheless find a way out. It is therefore necessary to give priority as far as possible, without any doubt, to the presence of trade unions in the enterprise, but we cannot be content with a situation in which almost half of the employees cannot benefit from an enterprise agreement because the system that has been imagined, in another context and in another time, does not work. It is not easy to find a good solution, and this is one of the subjects of consultation. This week I will have the opportunity to inform you of its results, and we will also need to discuss it here, because your views will be valuable: the Government is looking for a pragmatic solution that really works without remaining on principle positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u339	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u340	The minister has just said that she will tell us in the next few days how these amendments will or will not be the subject of clarification on her part. This is once again the denial of Parliament's prerogatives. Moreover, there is no question in this House of the reality of the low rate of unionisation. So far, however, a trade union delegate had been protected, including when he had established a dialogue with his company to defend the rights of employees. But you are extending, Madam Minister, the possible scope for negotiating company agreements to unprotected employees. This means that subordinate employees will be in a position to supplant trade union organisations on substantial clauses of collective agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u341	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u342	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] In doing so, you weaken the legitimacy of trade union organizations. Your project is already sufficiently specific in this regard. And the rapporteur tells us, at an hour minus five, that it is a matter of restoring the primacy of the enterprise agreement, when you said the opposite a few hours ago by saying that the hierarchy of standards would not be reversed. The more the debate progresses, the more you reveal yourself about the reality of this ideological project.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u343	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u344	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u345	A small reminder of the law: the elected staff are protected employees. There will be no change. I wouldn't want to hear things that are wrong. I would add that the principle of enabling legislation is that the clarifications are contained in the ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u346	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u347	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This is certainly the problem for you from the beginning, but it is free for Parliament to ratify or not the law that it has given us to draft. We must also trust social democracy and the fact that we are working together on a solution. I said, if you have any proposals on the subject, I will be ready to study them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u348	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 120, 365 and 444.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u349	[["Ah! » on many benches of the REM group]] The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 283. It'll be the last exam tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u350	It's accurate, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that we have examined 50 amendments at the average speed of 15 amendments per hour, and that there are still 291. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-10-E1006.u352	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Follow-up to the enabling bill to take measures to strengthen social dialogue by order. The meeting is adjourned.
