ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u2	We are dealing with the examination of the overseas appropriations (No 273, Annex 31 ; No 264 rectified, Volume XIII; No 278, Volume VI). The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u3	Madam President, the Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, the draftswoman for opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic, the draftsman for opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, this draft budget for 2018 demonstrates the Government's willingness to make overseas a priority. Overseas Mission appropriations are up 4% in 2018, and multi-annual programming forecasts an increase of approximately 5% between 2017 and 2020. The overall increase will be about 10% by 2022. I know that you will all ensure that the multi-year projection is not called into question in future fiscal years, so that the Overseas Ministry remains a priority department. As the President of the Republic stated during his visit to Guyana last week, we will not make unfulfilled promises. The Head of State has also pledged that all the consequences of the Overseas Assises will be drawn from the autumn 2018 fiscal year. So we do not lock up the Assisi by prior budgetary considerations, and that is very good. If a specific bill appears necessary at the end of these Assemblies, it will be tabled. This budget for 2018 will allow us to build a coherent and proactive policy on territorial development, support for youth and employment. With regard to territorial development, I stress the importance of planning and development contracts signed between the State and local and regional authorities. For 2018, commitments for this contractualised policy amount to 152 million euros, an increase of 12% compared to 2017. As you know, these credits relate to roads, wharves, drinking water systems and resource management channels to the territories. These commitments will also be complemented by the maintenance of the exceptional investment fund, at a minimum, at EUR 40 million over the duration of the quinquennium. As far as youth is concerned, you are all familiar with the appropriate military service – SMA – and the success it has achieved in terms of the job integration of young people who are far from the labour market. I would like to point out here that the planned increase in the number of troops on the quinquennium will result in the arrival, as early as 2018, of twenty additional military personnel. Over the period, 127 additional staff are planned and will make it possible to increase the reception of trainees and the effectiveness of their training. With a job integration rate of almost 78%, which is quite unique, strengthening the SMA is a real opportunity for overseas workers. In the area of employment, more than 50 per cent of the overseas mission's appropriations relate to mechanisms for reducing contributions and social contributions to ultramarine enterprises. These measures, which are essential to the reduction of production costs, combined with the maintenance in 2018 of the rate of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – increased to 9% for the overseas countries and territories, will help to strengthen the economic development of the territories. In 2018, no reform will affect these exemption mechanisms. Since the budget does not exhaust, far from it, the Government's policy towards the overseas countries, allow me to mention the major projects that we need to open now with boldness: the recasting of aid to enterprises, the improvement of our housing policy and the support of the territories in the face of climate change. Reforming business aid is a necessity. The accumulation of tax systems undermines the coherence and readability of public policies. We must change our model, break with conservatism, help territories face their future and bring innovation. We must avoid reasoning device by device, at the expense of a global vision allowing the transformation of our model. Resolute action will be taken in two specific areas: tourism and economic creation. The Overseas Assises are the privileged framework for shaping this policy of tomorrow, with all the political and socio-economic actors of the territories. In housing policy, again, we have to think global. Our new construction target has been increased by 400 housing units compared to 2017, and payment appropriations are up by €28 million on this line. Aid for the renovation of unsanitary housing is also maintained, and I have obtained an extension of funding from the Barnier Fund for the demolition of informal housing in the overseas departments. For the future, however, the issue is the rehabilitation of the existing park and the assistance to the owner-occupiers. The stock of unhealthy housing is ten times higher in the overseas region than in the Hexagon region. Beyond the single budget line – LBU – it is the capacity to produce and renovate that needs to be sanctified and increased. Together with my colleagues Jacques Mézard and Julien Denormandie, we are fully mobilized to increase our objectives in this area. By the end of the year, we will be able to propose a project aimed at simplifying urban planning documents, adapting standards and promoting land release. These levers will be mobilised to increase our capacity and that of social donors. Beyond a full-time ministry, overseasers need a course, a method, a long-term vision to promote their economic and social development. As I said in the enlarged committee, we need sincerity, justice and audacity. The 2018 Finance Bill provides us with the tools that are essential to the development of the territories. In the coming months, within the framework of the Assisi, we will work together to build a coherent and effective public policy for the territories that request it, that await it and, above all, that deserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u4	I should like to remind all speakers that their time is five minutes. Mr Olivier Serva, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u5	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations allocated to the Overseas Mission in 2018 amount to EUR 2,104 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 2,068 billion in payment appropriations. At constant scope, the budget increases by 3.6% in commitment authorities and 4.3% in payment appropriations. I welcome this because it is a strong signal in a very particular context. I am thinking first of all of the natural disasters which have caused absolutely considerable damage to Saint-Martin, Saint-Barthélemy, but also to Guadeloupe and Martinique. I am also thinking of the social movements that took place in 2017, reflecting the uneasiness of some populations that may sometimes feel abandoned, especially in Guyana and Mayotte. Finally, and above all, I am thinking of the adoption of the law on programming on real equality overseas and laying down other provisions on social and economic matters, known as the EROM law, which provided for the establishment of convergence plans between the ultramarine territories and Hexagon. This law cannot be a new list of good intentions never followed with effect: it is the responsibility of the State to make it effective. The ambition of convergence is absolutely nothing without the means of convergence. I would like to point out here that the support for the overseas budget, when it comes to the number of inhabitants, is less intense than the support for the Hexagon: in fact, spending on the overseas countries represents 3.9% of the gross expenditure on the general budget, whereas the ultramarine population accounts for 4.3% of the national population. Minister, as I have had the opportunity to tell you in an enlarged committee, this budget for 2018 is in the right direction. But let me mention a few issues that call for our vigilance. I know how burdensome the budgetary constraint is for the Overseas Ministry, but I do not understand why the necessary recovery in public finances would have a greater impact on the Overseas Mission than on the appropriations of other departments. The Mission's volume growth planned for 2019 and 2020 is below the growth targets for all departmental appropriations. This development astonishes with the hopes raised by the planning law on real equality overseas and the objectives of convergence. Similarly, in 2018, funding for the Housing Action of Programme 123 decreased by €20 million. I'm not telling you that this is a cause for concern. However, budgetary appropriations are not the only lever to support our territories. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to a number of proposals of a fiscal nature that I submit to you. At this very moment, the Finance Committee is meeting to consider amendments to the non-attached articles of the Finance Bill. I have tabled several of them, which I cannot defend myself: they concern tax aid to our territories. Tax incentives for productive investment and housing are of crucial importance to our territories. The Overseas Assises will also be an opportunity to embark on a reshaping of these mechanisms. In the meantime, I would like to see a freeze on the planned tightening of these devices. Thus, the CICE would disappear. I would not understand that the overseas countries are the collateral victim of this abolition. The application of an increased rate in these territories is justified. I propose that the principle of maintaining the CICE overseas be established before the conclusion of the Assises; If the discussions lead to a better solution, then it will be deleted. With regard to tax reduction schemes for productive investment, the gradual reduction of the turnover threshold below which companies are only eligible for the tax credit poses a pre-financing problem. I propose to keep this threshold at EUR 20 million. The scheme would also be extended for five years, so as to give investors visibility. I will also defend an amendment establishing a guarantee fund to pre-finance the tax credit. We will discuss this issue when we consider the amendments. Finally, I propose to extend and extend the challenges in the housing sector when it relates to certain anti-seismic or paracyclonic rehabilitation and reinforcement work. A special scheme now allows low-income people occupying their homes to finance their renovation thanks to the intervention of a third-party investor. I also propose to maintain this mechanism. Minister, I would like to assure you of my support for the policy that you are pursuing in favour of the overseas countries and territories. The real and sincere increase in credits in 2018 is an encouraging first sign. It is now necessary for the ambitions formalized by the law of programming on real equality overseas and the prospects of the Assisis to be realized. Our territories need concrete.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u6	Mr Serge Letchimy, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a central issue, which I would like to address in my own way, which will not be very orthodox. Minister, first of all, I want to express my personal support for you. Your fight may be ours. But understand that I must point out in this draft budget some shortcomings which we consider quite serious. It is very clear that we are changing paradigms. In my view, the development of the overseas countries is at the end of the cycle: the current systems are being wiped out, the inequalities are growing, the unemployment rate is reaching 20 per cent – 30 per cent in Réunion – and the indifference to the disasters that we are suffering is incredible. I shall mention just a few examples. How, Madam Minister, can we justify before Martinique, Guadeloupe, French Guiana and the other overseas departments and regions, a fall in the funding of the Overseas Agency for Mobility – LADOM – while the President of the Republic has made mobility a priority? How can we accept that housing policy is being undermined, with a sharp reduction of EUR 24 million in aid for housing improvement? It is a tool to combat inequality and, as a result of this decline in funding, people in extremely difficult situations will no longer be able to rehabilitate their housing. How can we explain that the appropriations for social accession fall by almost 13 million euros, while the operations of resorption of unhealthy housing require the rehousing of many families? With the removal of the personalized assistance for housing – APL – accession, in line with the philosophy of the Government, we are suffering a double penalty. How can we explain that, on the exceptional investment fund, we received only EUR 40 million, whereas the financial estimates were much higher under the previous government? Where did the funds linked to the global investment plan of EUR 1 billion go over the entire overseas? No doubt you will answer me that we are waiting for the conclusions of the Assises... How is it that regional cooperation is not further encouraged, which would allow us, in the overseas world, to reconcile with what I call our cordial geography? I'm Serge Letchimy, Martinique. But I am also a Caribbean, as the inhabitants of La Réunion have, with their cross-border maritime basin, a particular intimacy. I consider myself to be part of the Republic, but the area of expansion and development of my territory lies above all in the Caribbean. Territorial diplomacy must therefore be put on the agenda. How can we explain that the appropriations allocated to LADOM are in decline? How can we explain that the relief fund created after the disaster of Hurricane Irma amounts to only 10 million euros and that the plan "Seisme" has been cut darkly, while we are not immune to this danger? Finally, how can we explain that no sign is given of the application of the law on substantive equality? This law was debated here and approved unanimously. I told your predecessor, Mr. Victorin Lurel, that there could be no real equality without real emancipation. By this I mean that it is absolutely necessary to re-establish in our countries the responsibility for endogenous economic development – I am not afraid of this term – so as to get us out of the triple dependency that we find ourselves in, starting with this budgetary dependence, which you do not want either. The signal that has been sent with the abolition of aided contracts shows that state solidarity will not suffice and that we need this form of emancipation that allows us to fight inequalities, to invest locally, to regain contact with our biodiversity, to reconstitute development policies that make us more self-sufficient locally, even in food, to regain the path of energy production that is not strictly dependent on oil and to get out of the counter economy. To do this, we need to free minds, liberate energies, structure and empower governance. That's what we're asking. We do not want to remain in a form of mechanical dependence. You cannot refer us to the conclusions of the Assisi when we ask you about the application of the law on real equality, because it is before them. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on some benches of the LC and LR groups]] Minister, some things are acceptable and others are not. I share the view of Mr Olivier Serva, who is calling for a moratorium on the challenges of globalization, pending further progress. If we can help the fundamental sector of tourism, if we can implement a programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity – POSEI – for fisheries or diversification, we will emerge from the mechanisms we no longer want, we will cease to be in permanent humiliation and especially in dependence, of which we do not want.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u8	Mrs Huguette Bello, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u9	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite their delays, their lower standards of living, their massive unemployment, the overseas countries and territories have never been exempted from efforts to redress public accounts. The year 2018 will not derogate from this rule, nor will the following, according to the programming for the years 2018 to 2020. The overseas budget represents only a small part of the appropriations allocated to our territories. However, its examination remains important, since it is in some way the guardian of the political orientation adopted. Between the law for real equality, whose implementation is marked by great timidity, and the overseas Assises that have just begun, the budget we are considering seems to be pending. It is also marked by an increased use of common law and a logic of self-compensation. The appropriations for housing – programme 123 – are a perfect example of this dual logic. They decrease by EUR 20 million in payment authorisation, even though no reduction in demand is in sight. We are directed to the National Habitat Agency – ANAH –, towards the common law, therefore, to compensate for the sharp decrease – 80% – in aid for the improvement of private housing. But the ANAH budget does not increase more than ours, and nothing is specifically included in its guidelines, which support these petitions in principle. Similarly, you rely on the divestiture of overseas real estate companies to compensate for this decrease and to abound the single budget line of €20 million in the course of the year. However, the State had constantly committed itself to supporting social housing policy overseas and not, according to a self-compensation logic, to carrying out a zero operation for the single budget line. In this regard, I would like to go back to the divestment to the National Real Estate Company – SNI – of these overseas real estate companies – SIDOM – which concerns 700,000 housing units. I am all the more happy to do so because in recent days I have heard the Secretary of State for Social Cohesion retain in each of his interventions 100,000 euros as a reference price for social housing. Madam Minister, you have provided us with figures in an enlarged committee, which I thank you for. Indeed, thanks to your information, we know that the 70000 housing units involved in the transaction have been valued for a total amount of 190 million euros. This global prize deserves to be refined and this exercise of precision teaches us for example: that the 24,000 housing units of the Real Estate Company of the Department of Réunion – SIDR – are valued at 47.7 million – that is an average price of housing to 1968 euros; that the 11,000 housing units of the Société immobilier de la Martinique – SIMAR – are at the level of 52.7 million – i.e. an average housing price of 4757 euros. For the Société immobilier de la Guadeloupe – SIG – there are 18900 housing units for 27.8 million – i.e. an average housing price of 1468 euros. Finally, the 1779 housing units of the Société immobilier de Mayotte – SIM – are valued at 5.4 million, or an average price of 3035 euros. I would point out that most of these companies are in good financial health and that a recapitalisation of 20 million has taken place for one of them. Minister, how do we interpret these figures? Is our social park so dilapidated? Have seismic risks been generalized? Unless it's a very good deal? In programme 138, vocational training in mobility is amputated by 8 million euros, in contradiction both with the presidential ambition and the new challenges posed by the law for real equality. This is the second major decline for LADOM, since aid for territorial continuity has lost 20 million in three years and is almost no longer requested by the Réunions – four applications in 2016, some 20 this year. This downward spiral is obviously disturbing. In this context, we can only join our colleague Sébastien Jumel, whose mobilisation has been decisive, in stressing the inclusion of the budgetary means for the Institute for Training in Administrative, Health and Social Careers – IFCASS –, this institute located in Dieppe, which, for forty years, has been offering quality training to young ultramarines. Compensation for social exemptions is experiencing the largest increase in this mission, with almost 50 million euros, so as to better coincide with reality. Can you, Madam Minister, clarify whether it already takes into account the demands of communities hard hit by Irma to counteract a foreseeable increase in unemployment? I am pleased to conclude on New Caledonia's considerable stake. Like all stakeholders, we appreciated the commitment of the Government in general, and of the Prime Minister in particular, to ensure that the committee of signatories held last week reached agreement on the thorny issue of electoral lists. This consensus will have to be translated into the organic law as soon as possible. Could you, Madam Minister, tell us already about the timetable for the parliamentary debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u10	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Thierry Robert has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u11	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we met to review the appropriations allocated to the Overseas Mission of the Finance Act for 2018. I want to note here that these appropriations are up compared to last year. The time of transformation, which has begun in other missions, will also come for our territories, at the time of the conclusion of the Overseas Assises. And that is proof that the Government has chosen a method: to transform, before making it more efficient and less expensive. I will of course mention with you the two programmes "Employment overseas" and "Life conditions overseas". But before that, I want to point out that the policies that affect our territories come from all the central administrations. In this respect, it is gratifying to see in the policy document that the State's budgetary commitments are on the rise substantially within programmes which are not dependent on the Overseas Ministry, but whose appropriations will benefit our ultramarine fellow citizens. I shall mention, for example, a €5 million increase in appropriations for the competitiveness and sustainability of agriculture, an increase of more than €100 million for first- and second-degree school education, an effort of more than €6 million in the Judicial Justice programme, and a supplement of more than €21 million for support for electric renewable energy. We are also pleased to see the commitment authorisations increase by EUR 10 million in the "National Police" programme and by more than EUR 24 million in support of economic change and employment development. In these choices, I see foresight, since it is a question of supporting the sovereign missions of the State in our ultramarine territories, on the one hand, and of investing in an economic change geared towards sustainable development, based on our geographical and biodiversity assets, on the other. This path towards a reaffirmation of the presence of the State, combined with a stimulation of endogenous innovation, is the right choice for the overseas. We believe in it and we will work together, minister. An increase of 4.25% is foreseen in the payment appropriations dedicated to the 138 "Employment Overseas" programme, which is 54 million euros more than in the Finance Act for 2017. The focus of the effort is on "Support for enterprises", which accounts for more than 80 % of the programme's appropriations and ensures the sustainability of the relief and exemption schemes for ultramarine companies. These, as you know, are evolving in economic environments that are very unfavourable to economies of scale. This is one of the subjects to be dealt with within the framework of the Overseas Assises: how to organize lower local costs for job creators and to ensure lower prices for the consumer? The programme also allows for the financing of a freight aid which is expanding its scope of intervention. It can now be granted to lower the import price of products coming from countries outside the European Union and being processed in our territories. We also welcome the stabilization of commitments on adapted military service, to which we are very committed. It has proved its worth and I would like to reiterate with you, Madam Minister, its valuable role in the integration of young citizens in search of a compass in their lives. The 123 "Overseas Living Conditions" programme covers nine actions, including the single budget line, territorial continuity and the funds allocated to the communities. The single budget line is declining. Housing, especially social housing, is a critical issue in overseas countries and territories. We are therefore waiting, Madam Minister, for your explanations on this sensitive subject. We also look forward to the fall in the LADOM budget and the sharp decrease in the number of aided contracts, which are unfortunately vital for some of our fellow citizens. Because we prefer to see the glass half full than the glass half empty, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote the credits of the Overseas Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u12	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u13	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, Madam rapporteurs for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, almost a year ago we voted unanimously in favour of the Overseas Territories. It carried an ambition, set a course, brought a vision, a method to allow our territories to converge towards more correct figures in terms of human development index, GDP, and more generally development. A year later, we have to vote on the 2018 budget. In view of the objectives we have set ourselves, I do not hide from you that there is some disappointment. It is, however, relative, because we are aware of the national context and the efforts to which we can contribute to redressing France and improving the situation at national and European level. It should also be stressed that, on the whole, this budget is preserved. These are the positive points noted by the Constructive. In particular, the appropriations are preserved for the overseas communities. In this regard, I associate myself with the words of our Special Rapporteur on the special attention that has been given to New Caledonia and Wallis and Futuna. In Polynesia, the overall allocation of autonomy – DGA – has been maintained. It was a long-term struggle, and I would like to pay tribute to the entire national representation, which has been very supportive in recent years to maintain this exceptional endowment linked to our nuclear history. The territorial solidarity regime, or RST, the solidarity regime of French Polynesia, is also renewed. If these findings are positive, minister, I will also bring some nuances and provide some reasons for dissatisfaction. I will join forces to start with the overseas departments, out of solidarity. In particular, we note the very sharp decline in the LBU and in support for vocational training in mobility. We also see credit movements from the Overseas Mission to the School Education Mission. These are worrying elements. Although the overall budget envelope is stable, we therefore note significant shortcomings. Our concern is even greater about the state's support for the events that have affected the West Indies, because it does not seem to us to be at the right level. A €10 million relief fund seems to us to be clearly insufficient in terms of the scale of the task and the scale of the project. I insist, because we are familiar with these situations in the Pacific. We know what reconstruction involves after a cyclone. For example, after Cyclone Oli in 2010, we released €40 million for housing only. Out of 118 islands, only one archipelago of 3 or 4 islands had been hit, and some islands of the Tuamotu. I therefore wanted to associate myself in solidarity with my colleagues in the West Indies, and to ask you to release larger, exceptional envelopes for the reconstruction of these territories. I would also like to raise the issue of climate. Last September, the President of the Republic declared to the UN General Assembly: "By bringing together in Paris on 12 December all those who are determined to move forward [...] I confirm here that France will take its part in this by allocating €5 billion a year to climate action by 2020. [...] When some want to stop we must continue to move forward, to go further because global warming does not stop. » I would add to this quote that climate change has no borders; Don't forget that, colleagues. France must help these developing territories, which are our neighbours in most of our regions; It must not stop at its own borders. Our territories need just as much support. I therefore regret the removal of the appropriations from the "green fund equivalent"; I shall come back to that by way of amendment. In my view, it is essential to continue this approach, which has taken some development. I urge you, Minister, not to hinder this positive action to mitigate and adapt to the effects of climate change. [[Applause on a few benches]] On the whole, we are in favour of this mission, but wait for your clarifications to take a position.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u14	The next speaker is Mrs Ericka Bareigts, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u15	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Overseas Delegation, Madam President, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, the budget presented to us raises serious concerns for our nearly 3 million ultramarine citizens. There are indeed some points of concern. In the area of housing, funding for the renovation of private housing is increasing from EUR 29 million to only EUR 4 million, while the housing target is increasing from EUR 893 million to EUR 187 million. Home ownership is only €7 million, compared to €20 million in 2017, and the appropriations for the West Indies Earthquake Plan are declining. This is a non-response to the housing demands of our families and a weakening of the BTP. In terms of mobility, ambitions also seem to be reduced. Indeed, the EUR 8 million reduction in the appropriations for vocational training in mobility is in contradiction with the desire to promote the mobility of the Ultramarines. More generally, the 13 per cent reduction in the LADOM budget does not fail to worry, while the law on programming for real equality overseas has expanded the operator's missions and the President of the Republic has promised to increase the number of air tickets aided each year to 200000. The deployment of return mobility is a fight that we have all led together here in the National Assembly, because we are convinced that, by offering our young people, rich in their experience and diplomas, the opportunity to return to our territories, we will allow a new force to irrigate our ultramarine territories to better build them. The emergency plan for Guyana, which had been drawn up in a serious and responsible manner under the leadership of Bernard Cazeneuve and co-built with the territory, appears only partially in this mission, as in the others. The removal of the "green fund equivalent" for New Caledonia, French Polynesia and Wallis-et-Futuna, in the middle of COP 23, and while global warming is an undeniable reality, is a worrying signal for the safety of our brothers and sisters in the face of rising waters. The challenge to the City of Overseas Territories, whose first stone had been laid by President Holland last March, will limit the coverage of these territories. The artists and actors of the community world who are in the forums of this assembly will carefully follow our choice in this regard. Finally, what we are concerned about is that the Overseas Mission will see its appropriations stagnate at the same amounts as this year in 2019 and 2020 despite the Overseas Assises, which were to see an increase in the budget for our territories. However, beyond these budgetary considerations, we have the unpleasant impression of a lack of vision and ambition for the overseas countries and territories. However, I believe that we are all aware of the heavy responsibilities that weigh on our shoulders: the overseas countries are faced with historical choices. I am not just talking about the important challenges specific to certain territories; New Caledonia, Guyana, Mayotte or, of course, Saint Martin, for which we all have a particular thought. No, I talk more generally about the economic, social, environmental and human issues specific to all ultramarine territories. New perspectives are offered to our territories by the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas. And this law is not my law, nor that of the Socialist Group. Co-built with parliamentarians from all political sides and voted unanimously, it is the one of our 3 million ultramarine compatriots. However, its implementation does not seem to be a priority. This law is the first stone of a change of vision and method; It carries the expression, the ambition of each and affirms France one, indivisible and diverse. Yes, today we want to change our development model by taking into account our singularities in our public policies. We are convinced that with all the actors, on the ground, we can build convergence plans. We want to go further in integrating our territories into their regional basins. Finally, we can complete the long movement towards social equality for all our fellow citizens. Our territories demand nothing; They simply want the means of their ambition, to better build their emancipation. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Today's appointment is a missed one, minister. For these reasons, the New Left Group will vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u16	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u17	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, France is a great country, the fifth largest economic power in the world, the second largest maritime power, with an exclusive economic zone of nearly 12 million square kilometres, just behind the United States. Our united and indivisible France is full of wealth and potential. But this strong and powerful France of which we are talking also consists of territories with multiple realities and specificities: Saint-Barthélemy, Mayotte, Wallis-et-Futuna, Saint-Martin, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guyana, New Caledonia, Polynesia, La Réunion, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, territories almost all gangred by poverty. For, from government to government, from president to president, there is a new carrysou of rice – we always get screwed. From year to year, for more than half a century, we have been breaking record on inequality. Do I have to remind you that between 20 and 45 per cent of French overseas live below the poverty line? How long are we going to accept this situation? Our ultramarine companies are on the brink of explosion or implosion. In exceptional situations, exceptional responses: sufficient means must be put in place, innovative means must be put in place and in line with our realities, our needs and our objectives. Is the place of the world's second largest maritime power not due to the overseas, a full-fledged component of France? Don't forget it. So why don't we want, don't we happen or dare to develop these territories based on the enormous potential of the economy of the sea, to name but this one? Would there be a real will not to take into account the ultramarine, economic, social and cultural reality? Would it be out of ignorance or contempt? In this budget, are we embarking on a policy capable of meeting our challenges; employment, ill-being, poor housing, poverty, poverty? No: Your budget does not lay the foundations for a better future for our compatriots, Madam Minister. It is presented by some as increasing, but we could at best talk about stability, continuity. In other words, these guidelines reject any exit from the economic and structural crisis. This budget says to the elderly: "Pride yourself, or continue to live in difficulty"; to the young: "Continue to struggle"; people deprived of jobs: "Don't rely on a small contract to survive"; Planters: "Fight with European rules"; to those who are waiting for housing: "Walk over and over." Yet, Madam Minister, as you know, we have assets. Then why don't we see any trace of it in this budget? Yes, the ultramarine populations want ambitious and innovative directions. The time has come to give our territories the tools of development to eradicate social apartheid, which is getting worse every day. We want ecological and peasant agriculture, which is a source of jobs and health; reasonable and reasoned management of the sea and its resources; valorisation of ancestral and unique know-how, for example in the field of medicinal plants; a convergence of policies to make overseas areas of positive energy. Let us make overseas experimental and adaptation lands, laboratories of political evolution. Institutional tools exist to regulate and enable all this: Articles 37-1, 72, 73 and 74 of the Constitution, among others, and Article 349 of the European Treaty. What are you waiting for to grant the means necessary for the economic development of our territories, in a spirit of trust and fraternity? I say to the representatives of the French State: do not be afraid; Be sure that overseas people want to emancipate themselves to work for the spread of France throughout the world, for nou le kapab – we are able to do so. But your budgetary orientations are all attacks at the heart of the social and solidarity economy. They call into question the fragile social balance, and do not reduce economic inequalities in any way. "For a policy, the worst thing is irresponsibility. It is late, but not too late to take meaningful action," said Paul Vergès in the Senate, and his words remain more current than ever. Madam Minister, it is with a firm and motivated "no" that my group and I will refuse to vote on this fallback budget, against the background of the progress process. Nou pa z'enfants batards – we are not bastard children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u19	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u20	[[Smile]] Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have travelled 8000 kilometres to deliver this speech. If it exceeds the allowed time by eight seconds, a ratio of 1000 kilometers per second would not seem to me excessive! Today we arrived at the fateful time of the discussions on the funding allocated in 2018 to the Overseas Mission. For a first budget, we could have dreamed bigger and I know, Madam Minister, that you could have dreamed bigger. However, it is appropriate to recall here that the funding of public policies applied in our territories does not depend exclusively on this overseas mission. Thus, the decline in the endowments of many budgets of this 2018 finance bill is already affecting us. This is the case for our hospitals and patients, who depend on the infusion of the Ministry of Health. Inadaptation of the economic model of hospital financing penalizes our institutions by putting them in a sustainable and irreparable position in the crisis. This is also the case for our prisons, who are prisoners of overcrowding and underfunding, and who depend on the handcuffs – or guillotine – of the Ministry of Justice. As I recall, in Martinique, we have been confronted with three suicides in three weeks, as a result of the degraded and degrading conditions of detention and work of detainees and agents, for whom France was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights in September 2016. Returning to the Overseas Mission, a 4.3 per cent increase in payment appropriations is presented. In the current context of budget shortages, why does this increase not give us a sense of satisfaction, gratitude and total gratitude? In fact, we have understood that this increase is only virtual and is the result of a budgetary scheme consisting of a transfer of EUR 85 million from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Overseas Affairs. In addition, Martinique that I am well aware that, following the promises of the presidential campaign made to certain territories – Guyana and Mayotte – a large part of this budget is already almost affected. Thus, at constant budgetary limits, the aid allocated to the other territories will decrease mathematically. You have to have the courage to tell us and assume it. Consequently, the reductions in the resources provided for in this budget for housing, business aid, vocational integration and mobility training managed by LADOM will be felt even more acutely in the non-priority areas. We are far from the paradigm shift announced! I am not just denouncing a situation: I am also putting forward concrete proposals, on which I hope we will have the opportunity to take a decision when we consider the amendments. Our amendments are real opportunities to enrich this text, but many have been confronted with the guillotine of Article 40 of the Constitution. The proliferation of asbestos, particularly in Martinique, represents a real danger for our populations: 70% of constructions present a potential risk of asbestos; whole subdivisions financed by the State are loaded with asbestos, and the rate of public financing is capped at 80%, when the only asbestos removal works reach lightly 45,000 euros. Hundreds of cases are currently blocked due to lack of funding, even though they concern unhealthy housing for which the asbestos in question is active, thus harmful. In the context of a decline in housing subsidies of 20 million for this single mission, the continuation of social and solidarity-based challenges is more than desirable. It would ensure a minimum number of orders for the building and public works sector – BTP. At the economic level, we are in favour of a well-known strengthening of the CICE in certain priority sectors. Finally, the end of discrimination regarding postal tariffs is an example of a fight to be waged in the fight against expensive living. It is not permissible for our populations to be over-tariffd.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u21	Thank you for concluding, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u22	We will also make every effort to ensure the effective implementation of a major cyclone plan for the overseas countries and territories, which must be a priority of this Government. It will be necessary to increase vigilance during the next cyclonic season, as the huge fires in July, August and September 2017 in the United States, Portugal, Australia and Corsica risk further aggravating the current disturbances. [[Smile]] Contrary to what government political marketing suggests, this 2018 budget is no better than the previous ones, but the worst part is that it is not even worse. It simply forms part of a too long line of budgets without boldness, without ambition, without the new, deciduous look that our territories deserve. I invite you, Madam Minister, to meditate on this word of your homonym – perhaps a distant ancestor? –, Émile de Girardin, pronounced in 1867: "A will whose strength serves to prevent nothing, to contain nothing, is a will without strength", a vain will.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u23	Mr. Member, your speech began six minutes ago, forty minutes ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We consider the word of the ancestors sacred. So I urge you to listen to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u25	You have travelled a very large number of kilometres, and got two more minutes of speaking time! The next speaker is Mrs Naïma Moutchou, for the Group of the European People's Party on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we meet to discuss the first budget for the overseas legislature, when the past year has been marked by major social and environmental events. Climate, unemployment, security, living conditions, illegal immigration, overseas challenges are great. Too long neglected, and misunderstood in their diversity, these territories are not just a budget line. In addition to crisis management and our emergency response to the overseas environment, we must also have a strong, ambitious policy that will bring long-term change, because, as the Prime Minister said in his general policy speech: "France is all over the world thanks to its overseas environment. On all continents and in all the world's oceans. Here's a wealth. Here's a chance. This is also a challenge."
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u27	It must be taken into account in public policies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u28	France is the second largest maritime power in the world, with 11 million square kilometres of exclusive economic zone. In the area of military cooperation and regional integration, it is also a major asset. In cultural and human matters, of course, the overseas territories enrich us. I therefore take this rostrum as a reminder of the deep commitment of parliamentarians, and of France, to these twelve departments, regions and communities. With appropriations rising, with a constant structure, by more than 4% compared to 2017, we have a considerable and sincere budget, of which I congratulate you, minister. Over the quinquennium as a whole, the increase is expected to be close to 10%. Of course, there are difficulties that have been stressed by previous speakers and, Madam Minister, you will be able to reassure them. But the mission foresees a lot of strong actions in areas where the overseas countries and territories need them. Particular attention was being paid to employment, to reduce the cost of work and to make ultramarine enterprises more attractive and competitive, since the Government's priority challenge was to combat a far too high unemployment rate, particularly among the younger populations. This is why the draft budget covers, for more than 50 per cent of its appropriations, mechanisms for reducing contributions and social contributions to enterprises. These key levers for reducing production costs, coupled with the maintenance in 2018 of the CICE rate increased to 9%, will strengthen the economic development of all territories. As regards support for youth policies, it is clear that adapted military service has some success in the integration of those who are furthest from the labour market. The Government has noted this: an increase of 127 staff is planned, which will make it possible to increase the reception of trainees and the effectiveness of their training. In the area of territorial development, planning and development contracts signed between the State and the communities are essential: improvement of roads, wharves, drinking water or waste water systems and urban development. For 2018, the commitments dedicated to this contract policy amount to 152 million euros, or 12% increase compared to last year. Finally, the stakes of this budget are particular: it will have to accompany overseas in a pivotal year 2018 in more than one way: deployment of all the devices of the EROM law; Assises des otre-mer, which you gave, Madam Minister, the kick-off on 16 October; Agreement of Guyana; "Framework for the Future" project in Mayotte; Elysée agreement for French Polynesia; Finally, the referendum on the self-determination of New Caledonia, twenty years after the Nouméa Accord, is a major challenge, for it is nothing less than the institutional future of that community that must be played out. France will accompany this great democratic moment for New Caledonia politically, but also budgetaryly. Programme 123 of the budget incurs operating expenditure of EUR 1.6 million for an observation mission entrusted to the United Nations Office. Parliamentarians are also involved: a fact-finding mission, of which I am a member, was set up to prepare for the referendum and, above all, the day after. As you will have understood, budgetary support for overseas is targeted, demanding and pragmatic. I welcome this and, once the budget has been closed, I pledge to keep a watchful and attentive eye on the declination of ultramarine policy. That is why the La République on the move group will vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u29	Mr David Lorion has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u30	Madam Minister, you are a child from overseas: you must have fought hard for this budget, but obviously you are far from winning all the battles. You have also given us false joy by announcing an increase in the budget. While this has been pleasant to hear, this is not the reality, because the fact of deflating the 2017 budget amount of money invested by the Ministry of Education only artificially increases the budget for 2018! In your budget, it is the companies that are most spared, since you have programmed the additional expenses that will result from the increase in the expense exemptions and the CICE related to the economic beautification of 2017 and 2018. However, we are in a mechanical increase in payment appropriations: nothing more. Madam Minister, it is on the second part of your budget that I will certainly be the most critical. The mission's mission is to improve the living and training conditions of the Ultramarines, which now accounts for only 35.5 per cent of the Mission's total budget, with a net decrease of 6.7 per cent. In September – you remember – in our streets, the banners and parade of artisans as well as BTP companies asked you for a budgetary effort. What is your ministry's answer? A reduction in the housing budget by more than 8 per cent. Beyond companies, families will be affected, as intervention expenditure is almost divided by five. For home ownership, the budget is almost divided by three. For the improvement of private habitat, it is divided by seven! Not only does it not allow communities to meet their commitments in development operations, but the dream of many families hoping to access private housing is collapsing. This is unacceptable and incomprehensible. No doubt you will tell us about the ANAH: beautiful promises, for the moment without budget or negotiations. You will also tell us that the reduction in the appropriations for the single budget line will be offset, in particular, by the sale of real estate companies: we do not know how much it will take or how long it will take. All of this, far from reassuring us, is more likely to be worrying, because not all of this funding is sustainable. Minister, after families are disappointed with their housing, it is the young people who are asking questions and looking at us. There is good news: you have increased the ADM's budget. It is proof of the support for this military structure that has radiated in the overseas and that gives a new horizon to more than 6,000 young people who are looking for a future. But why, at the same time, waste this great momentum by lowering the appropriations of LADOM, which is responsible for the complementary mission of opening up to the world of young people from overseas? In such a difficult context of distance for training, the choice to reduce LADOM's credits is incomprehensible. Nor can Members understand without a valid explanation the disappearance of the Green Fund in the Pacific, that of the Cité des Overseas, dear to our colleague Pau Langevin and to the other ministers who accompanied him, or the abandonment of sports equipment for the benefit of the Paris Olympic Games. Claire Guion-Firmin and I are very concerned about the delay in aid to Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy. What budgetary measures do you intend to take? Mansour Kamardine, like me, feels very concerned about the situation in Mayotte, which should require a much stronger reaction from the State so that it does not have to blush from its one hundred and first department. As for the jobs helped, their disappearance will naturally set the powders on fire in the overseas unless they are quickly replaced by another device. No doubt you will answer that these problems will be raised during the Overseas Assemblies, that all the subjects will be discussed, from the price of rice to the status of the overseas departments. The field is wide. We will hear good promises. However, I would like to remind you that elected representatives of the Overseas Territories – for example Serge Letchimy and Ericka Bareigts here – have worked, thought about and drafted bills, which these elected representatives represent the population and exchange with the economic world. However, I still do not see the place of Members in the Overseas Assemblies. Your budget, Minister, is of great concern to us because it does not meet our expectations or the hopes of families, young people and businesses. We do not see it as the beginning of the writing of an ambitious policy for France overseas, which at the same time responds to a social demand for justice and equity in relation to the Nation and sets new horizons for a France that is more oceanic, richer in its biodiversity and more open to the world and its ultramarine territories. Minister, despite the pleasure we have to meet with you, we will not accompany you on this budget for the Overseas Mission, because we consider it very disappointing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u31	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. The next speaker is Mr Max Mathiasin, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u32	Madam Minister, the President of the Republic has targeted the three main areas of development for the ultramarine territories: simplification of procedures, particularly in the construction and renewable energy sectors, reduction of food dependence through the industrialization of agriculture and tourism. The Assises will have to make concrete and costed projects emerge. We remain vigilant and mobilized more than ever. I have every confidence in our communities, small businesses and fellow citizens to present innovative projects. The major investment plan already provides EUR 1 billion. In view of the territorial divide, this amount seems to us to be insufficient. Can you guarantee us that the funds will be able to support and implement all the projects that would emerge? Finally, I want to come back to a great issue of concern for our compatriots: you assured us that the envelope for assisted jobs in 2017 and 2018 would be the same as in 2016. You also informed us that the prefects were instructed to receive elected officials to find solutions. However, like many of my colleagues, we have not been contacted: our letters have remained unanswered and no prefectural order has been issued. The consequence, at least in Guadeloupe, is the cessation of the renewal of assisted contracts and the impossibility of hiring for communities and associations. Minister, how can the envelope be maintained as the year ends in a few weeks? How can we maintain the number of assisted contracts, the coverage rate, the weekly duration and duration of these assisted contracts that have been so useful to many of us?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u33	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u34	Mr President, first of all I would like to point out that this budget is neither marketing nor virtual, and that it is not in retrospect. Since, for lack of time, I cannot answer you now, I will reply to each of you, because transparency is of the utmost importance and some words have been marked by exaggeration. I agree with you that it is necessary for the overseas countries and territories to change their methods and course. However, this change is foreseen in the framework of the convergence contracts, which, I would remind you, are negotiable until July 2018. It is therefore normal that you do not have the figures today. I thank you for referring to the Overseas Assises: they will be implemented not only at the legislative level, but also at the budgetary level. As the President of the Republic has announced, the reduction in aided contracts is a political choice, because they are not sustainable jobs. But we know that the reality of the overseas territories requires that, particularly with regard to schools, the voluntary and hospital sectors or green jobs, we can find a suitable response to the gradual decline and the subsequent disappearance of the aided contracts. Sustainable solutions must be found for the training and support of young people, as well as for local and regional authorities and associations. Our ultramarine youth deserve long-term jobs. A training plan of more than EUR 15 billion will be announced. It is necessary to be fully part of the reflection that will be carried out so that the overseas countries can find their place there. I urge you all to take advantage of the mission of Jean-Marc Borello to discuss the specificities of the ultramarine territories, even if, of course, I will do so. I told you: with regard to aided contracts, as soon as we have the total result of the 2017 fiscal year – I will send it to you – I will support the 2018 fiscal year as announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u35	We turn to Mr Philippe Dunoyer's first question, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u36	My first question, Madam Minister, is about adapted military service, something that we all welcome in terms of employment success, particularly for young people who have failed school. Whether in Martinique, Guadeloupe, French Guiana, La Réunion, French Polynesia or New Caledonia, in all the territories where it exists, everyone recognizes the excellence of the scheme. The objective of an average integration rate of 78% of SMA volunteers at the end of the contract is achieved on all overseas, and even exceeded in Mayotte, Guadeloupe and French Polynesia. I would also like to remind you of the equally important rates of success in the examinations of an audience, a third of whom are illiterate in these centres. The fact that the success rates for citizen training certificates and first aid training or licence B exceed 90% illustrates the tremendous success of this system. For New Caledonia, a record rate of female recruitment of 42 per cent is an additional reason for satisfaction. It is therefore quite naturally, Madam Minister, that we have alerted you to a twofold request concerning New Caledonia: an increase of eighty places in the two centres located in the North Province and the establishment, in the South Province, of a new centre on the site of the Nandai military camp, which now accommodates only one unit of the Pacific Navy infantry regiment. In 2016, Prefect Pierre N'Gahane, who had been assigned a mission on the evaluation of crime prevention measures, also stressed this dual need. What assurances, Madam Minister, can you give us as to whether these two requests are being considered?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u37	[[At 10.40 a.m., Mr. François de Rugy replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u38	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u39	Mr. Member, you know my commitment to the ADM and, more broadly, to youth policies. I would like to thank you and all the elected representatives of New Caledonia for accepting that the Overseas Assisi are also taking place in your territory, despite the important 2018 referendum on self-determination. You chose to organize these foundations on the theme of youth: it was important that we could mention it, and the development of the ADM, especially in New Caledonia, is one of the answers that can be given. I have noted your request: it is currently being studied. Arbitration is under way. I will not fail to answer you very quickly. As you know, the Prime Minister will visit New Caledonia at the beginning of December. This may be an opportunity for him to provide answers to questions about youth in your territory, including the ADM. We are all proud of this tool, which for many years has provided a real response to the young ultramarines who have experienced difficulties in their lives and who need a new impetus and a new chance. That's what the ADM is offering them. I would also like to stress the importance of the issue of mobility. I know that many of you are worried about LADOM's credits: but those registered for 2018 are at the euro near those of 2017. It will always be time, as you know, to give a more in-depth answer within the framework of the Assisi. I have undertaken to ensure that additional funding can be channelled to LADOM if necessary, depending on the pace of implementation of the new measures provided for in the Overseas Equality Programming Act. I would like to reiterate how important the issue of youth is and, more generally, the question of mobility between New Caledonia and the metropolis, of course, but also of internal mobility in the region, because I believe much in interregional cooperation. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u40	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u41	Minister, you know that territorial continuity is a particularly sensitive issue for ultramarine populations and, in particular, those that are the furthest from Hexagon. A fairer mobility policy is essential to enable our populations to leave their geographical isolation, not only by travelling to Hexagon, but also by integrating into their regional environment. The EROM Act of February 2017 strongly recalled that "the establishment and maintenance of continuous territorial links between the various components of the territory of the Republic is a matter of sovereignty". The Act also provides that "territorial continuity means... the establishment or maintenance of a transport offer... within those territories". Lastly, with regard to New Caledonia, it provided that a convergence plan could be drawn up to revise the arrangements. You know – as we have seen in the budget – that the appropriations allocated to territorial continuity are falling slightly. I would add that this mechanism does not take into account the economic and social reality of our territories. My colleagues from Polynesia and Wallis-et-Futuna present at my side could bear witness to this, Madam Minister: we are the most expensive territories of the Republic, those where the cost of living is the highest, which naturally affects our compatriots – when they have to move not only to the metropolis, but also and above all to the interior. The best illustration of this economic and social reality has just been given by the Committee of Signatories, which has provided for the establishment of decentralized polling stations to allow voters of the islands residing on Greater Earth not to have to pay the price of a ticket. Since the last revision of the continuity scheme, the number of beneficiaries has been divided by five. There is, for the population, a blatant injustice. What is the status of the convergence plan for New Caledonia?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u42	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u43	Territorial continuity, including internal continuity, is indeed extremely important in some extended territories, because they have archipelagos or because they are large – Guyana, within a few square kilometres, has the same area as Portugal. Those working on overseas issues in metropolitan France are not always aware of this. That is why, since taking responsibility, I have placed great emphasis on the notion of "reflex overseas": when one thinks of a tool, a law, one must immediately think of the peculiarities of the ultramarine territories – some might consider that one should speak of "isolated territories", the metropolis also knowing with the rural or mountain territories. This is, moreover, an important European fact. If I speak of Europe, there is also progress in this area. We discussed with President Juncker the European funds devoted to this mobility. You know that the challenge of internal mobility in our overseas territories is important given the financial needs. We will discuss these issues again in the framework of the EROM Act, but also in the Overseas and Mobility Assemblies organised by the Minister responsible for transport. I would like to repeat this here: we must co-build this internal mobility. If, as in French Guiana or Polynesia, taking into account the distances, it goes mainly through air travel, we will have to find collective answers, because, as you said, it has a cost. You mentioned the installation of polling stations in Nouméa to meet the desire, which we all share, for as much participation as possible in the 2018 referendum on self-determination. We will discuss this question again in the framework of the Assisi, and I hope that we will then be able to provide you with the expected answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u44	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u45	Minister, the Government is in favour of the development of territories whose tourism, in French Polynesia, is a pillar. The responsibility for tourism lies with Polynesia, as provided for in article 14 of the Constitution and the organic law adopted on 17 February 2004. That same year, the Decentralization Act on Local Liberties and Responsibilities was adopted, which provided for the transfer of 150 state airfields to local authorities in 2007. While this law excludes in its 2005 implementing decree certain ultramarine airports, notably in Martinique, Guadeloupe, Réunion and Guyana, it is notable that the airport of Tahiti Faa'a is not included in this list. However, in 2010, contrary to this decree and without any real explanation, the State signed with Egis a 30-year concession agreement in which it is stated that the State is indeed the granting authority of the airport of Tahiti Faa'a. The consolidated reading, on the one hand, of the statute, the decentralization law and the implementing decree of 2005, and, on the other hand, of the concession agreement is thus paradoxical, especially since two overseas communities, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy, have since 2007 owned the management of an airport. Madam Minister, in view of your recent political experience, you are aware that President François Hollande has committed himself to remedying this paradox by finally returning Tahiti Faa'a airport to French Polynesia. From 2007 to the present, the position of all governments in the community has been consistent, in favour of this surrender. We are aware that it involves budgetary changes that could be included in the 2018 Finance Amendment Bill or in the 2019 Finance Bill. Polynesia is in the middle of the Pacific, and Faa'a International Airport, the only airport that connects us to the rest of the world, is one of the key levers of our development. In the interests of continuity of the State's commitments, is the Government now prepared to implement and accompany the surrender of Tahiti airport to Polynesia, in partnership with the municipality of Faa'a, which is now suffering most of the inconveniences associated with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u46	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u47	Mr President, the renewal procedure is in progress and follows the usual legal procedures. The call for tenders will therefore be launched very soon. This issue was also discussed this week at the meeting between the President of French Polynesia and the President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron. You are talking about a transfer of ownership: it is not on the agenda and we are not currently working on this issue. It is certainly not usual to transfer this type of structure to a municipality, but it is in Polynesia, as part of your exchanges, that you must raise the issue. In any event, this is a management matter, not a transfer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u48	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u49	Minister, the tourist attraction of France is well known. It is clear that the policy in this area is adapted to the ideal situation of Hexagon in Europe and in the world, of which it can be proud. However, it is a reality that is not felt in the same way in all territories. It can even be said that Polynesia does not live in the same situation at all and suffers from it. We are not in Europe, nor on the same continent, nor in the same ocean. We are, literally, at the antipodes... While the tourism development of Polynesia is within its own competence, the granting of visas is the responsibility of the sovereign missions of the State. Outside the Schengen area, the vast majority of countries that are potentially attractive in terms of tourism therefore see their nationals subject to a prior process of obtaining the visa which is often laborious, sometimes repudiatory. This is in addition, for Polynesia, to the structural obstacles of distance, air transport tariffs and the cost of living on the spot. This is a real weakness in a market by definition competitive, with, in our geographical area or outside the Pacific, but in the same market segment, destinations that do not suffer from this handicap. My point is, of course, not today to call for the transfer of the regal jurisdiction of immigration, which requires a genuine constitutional and statutory review. Organizational solutions exist, which are widely used by our competitors. One of them seems to me to be able to be put in place in French Polynesia: of course I want to talk about the "additional visa". Without a statutory change, by simply changing the organisation of immigration, the state could effectively accompany the tourism development, which is essential for us. I am well aware that this question, like the previous one on the airport of Tahiti Faa'a, is not strictly within the scope of the "Overseas" mission. I also know that we have no reason to doubt your commitment to overseas, and you can count on us to help you. Nevertheless, Madam Minister, a few days away from the announcements made by the President of the Polynesian government on the opening of the Polynesian sky, I would like to know whether the State would be willing to take measures to facilitate the tourist stay in Polynesia, including the granting of visas upon arrival? Mauruuru, te aroha ia rahi – thank you, warm greetings.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u50	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u51	We are all aware here that tourism is a real opportunity for the development of all the overseas territories, and I know its importance for the economy of Polynesia. We therefore share the objective of developing tourism and, from this point of view, you are right, the question of visa is essential. So you'll find me by your side to defend this case. However, the Minister for Overseas Affairs is not the only one concerned with the issue: the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs also have a say. I will try to persuade my colleagues that we need to go further than the "Vanilla visa" that exists for La Réunion or other arrangements that we have already put in place for Polynesia, especially for Chinese tourists. First of all, we need to think about how to encourage the granting of visas for economic actors, for scientists and for academics. In this respect, it is necessary to reach a conclusion very quickly. Secondly, consideration must also be given to the possibility of issuing visas upon arrival in Polynesia. Personally, I am in favour of it and will stand by your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u52	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u53	Madam Minister, the State has decided to withdraw from the real estate company of Kourou, SIMKO, of which it is currently the majority shareholder through the national center for space studies, the CNES, by selling its shares, at a discount, to the Société nationale immobilier which, becoming also majority shareholder of SIMKO, will take control of the policy of social housing in Guyana. One thousand euros: this is the derisory sum that the SNI is actually preparing to pay to the State for each of the 6000 housing units currently in the park managed by SIMKO. Madam Minister, as you know, employees as well as the entire political class of Guyana are opposed to this divestment putting in the hands of a private operator the keys to social housing policy in Guyana while still moving away from the decision-making centre, which will now be located in Paris, far from the realities of our territory. As a reminder, the SIMKO has so far been managed equally by the Municipality of Kourou and the CNES, as close as possible to the needs of the territory. However, the territorial community of Guyana and the municipality of Kourou wanted to join forces in order to hold the majority of the capital by acquiring the 3% necessary to become the majority shareholders. This request, which is in the interest of Guyanans, has for the time being remained a dead letter. However, on reading the recently published notification by the competition authority, it would appear that the 6000 SIMKO housing units no longer appear alongside the parks of the other five overseas real estate companies – SIDOM – involved in the proposed transaction. It must therefore be inferred that the Guyanans' requests had been heard and that a solution could be found, as was done for the New Caledonian real estate company. Madam Minister, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u54	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u55	Mr President, the transfer of State shares within the SIDOM was decided by the vote on the law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life, more simply designated – and that is so much better – as the law "Sapin 2" of December 2016. So I inherit this file. When I arrived at the overseas ministry, I asked for all the explanations on the merits of this operation. I wanted to step up the work of listening and negotiating with the various stakeholders, which I felt was not satisfactory, in order to properly measure the issues and respond to the concerns expressed. Since then, at my request, fundamental guarantees have been given to employees: no dismissal and maintenance of social gains – this was important. I also wanted the NIS to have a real governance contract and a better understanding of local and regional authorities. The State's financial interest has been preserved. I therefore invite you to refer to the public opinion of the Participation Committee, referred to earlier by Mrs Bello: this opinion, delivered last February, is clear and detailed. I am now convinced that this project is in the right direction – that of the general interest – and I am not aware of the elements that you are referring to in the last part of your speech, where you suggest that Guyana would be out of plan today. This does not correspond to the information that I have and I am sorry if you were happy to do the opposite. The process must now proceed to the end, with the improvements that have been made to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u56	The next question is by Mr Gabriel Serville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u57	As the report for the opinion of Mrs Huguette Bello points out, the programming law on real equality overseas of 28 February 2017 requires the Government to submit to Parliament eight reports, three of which were to be produced within six months, i.e. no later than 28 August 2017. One of these reports, provided for in Article 145 of the Law, provides for the presentation of the various scenarios allowing an increase in the financial impact of space activity in Guyana for the territorial authorities of the territory, while preserving the competitiveness of the Kourou site. However, unless I am mistaken to date and the legal deadline is well exceeded, this report has not yet been submitted to national representation. You are, however, aware, Madam Minister, that just after the entry into force of the EROM law, the largest social movement in the history of Guyana took place, which quickly focused, in part at least, on this precise question of the fair remuneration of the communities and, through them, of the population, in respect of the profits of the exploitation of Guyana's resources, first and foremost of which space activity. This is proof of this: the large demonstration of April 4, 2017, which brought together in Kourou – which has only 26,000 inhabitants – more than 10,000 people who walked to the Guiana space centre to protest the fact that Ariane takes off, while Guyana remains desperately nailed to the ground. Without in any way calling into question the contribution of space activity to the Guyanan economy, it should be recalled, however, that the European Space Agency, the owner of basic infrastructure and launcher programmes, is exempt from direct or indirect taxes and taxes, since it enjoys tax immunity status. This represents an annual shortfall of €330 million for the communities on the one hand for the granting of the sea. The CNES does not pay a territorial economic contribution. Finally, Arianespace is also not subject to the granting of the sea for the importation of launchers and satellites launched from Guyana. While Guyana must find funding channels for its development and give itself the means to cope with the many challenges it faces, action is urgently needed. I would therefore like to thank you, Madam Minister, for telling me the status of this report and, more broadly, what follow-up you intend to give to this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u58	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u59	Mr President, I had the opportunity to remind the delegation overseas that the monitoring of the law was in place, that it was accompanied by twenty-two implementing decrees, that the response or implementation rate was still only 18% today, that the four authorizations were all under way and that we are moving forward – even though it is, I admit, still unsatisfactory. The report on CNES, which you mentioned, has just been submitted to the ministers concerned. It will, of course, be passed on to parliamentarians, and I hope that we will have an exchange on this. This report will therefore be debated, but last week the President of the Republic, during his visit to Guyana, particularly to the CNES, has already insisted that we can put in place a "new PHEDRE plan" – Hermès Partnership for Regional Development – which will have to be discussed with the local authorities and elected representatives. Clearly, in this new plan, the interests of the community – or communities – and, more generally, those of Guyanans must be defended. We must provide answers to Guyana's problems, which were widely mentioned in the context of last year's demonstrations and the crisis that Guyana experienced, in which the State was at its side by providing answers both to the needs of the emergency plan and to the future development projects of Guyana, in which the CNES will have to take its full part.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u60	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Claireaux, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u61	Minister, you have, for years now, carried a very strong maritime ambition for our ultramarine territories, and you are right. Overseas countries must further affirm their maritime vocation. This is also the whole meaning of the symposium entitled "France, giant of the seas: the overseas to the challenge of blue growth", organized on 23 November in the Assembly by the delegation to the overseas countries, the French Maritime Cluster and the Federation of Overseas Enterprises – FEDOM. We must not stop repeating that, thanks to its overseas operations, France has the second-largest exclusive economic zone in the world. Ultramarine territories alone account for 97% of the French maritime space: this is considerable. The Interministerial Committee on the Sea – CIMer – which will meet next week must act on France's maritime policy for the next few years. The Overseas must therefore be fully mobilized on this issue. The challenges are significant in the areas of fisheries structuring, aquaculture development, support for innovation and research, in particular on marine renewable energies, training adapted for the overseas sector, strengthening of State action at sea and development of recreational and cruise tourism activities. In Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, this great challenge of the blue economy was launched thanks to the support of the State, and your ministry in particular, with the establishment of a fund to modernise the fisheries sector to compensate for the local absence of the European Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Fund – FEAMP – with the funding, in 2018 and 2019, of the renovation of the deep water wharf in Saint-Pierre to allow the development of the cruise and with the oceanographic research campaign that took place last August. As in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, this priority given to maritime development must concern the whole overseas. This obviously requires resources, whether budgetary or human, or engineering resources. I know that the Government has become fully aware of all these issues. Prime Minister Édouard Philippe reminded the House last Tuesday of his government's attention and ambition for our ultramarine territories. Can you therefore tell us, Madam Minister, without anticipating the announcements that will be made next week at the CIMer, what will be the main axes of maritime policy specific to the overseas countries and territories for the coming years and, above all, what means are you planning to implement it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u62	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u63	Mr President, you are aware of my commitment to maritime matters and I know that some here have fought with me in the Chamber. The blue economy is very important to me. This is the future of the overseas countries – without neglecting, of course, the other sectors, which must also be supported. It is first of all the traditional blue economy, with fisheries and transport, but also a more innovative blue economy, with biotechnology and marine energies. These sectors are still too little developed overseas, and this is paradoxical, because the overseas territories have almost all island environments and Guyana is probably the most important coastal linear. During this quinquennium, I would like to make ambitious proposals for this blue development, this blue economy. That is also what I want for the next interdepartmental committee on the sea. The measures which will be examined there are still subject to arbitration at the moment when I am talking to you, but the CIMer will form the framework of France's maritime policy for the next few years and the overseas must take its place there, much more strongly than it has been until today, where this movement is, to say the least, still timid. I therefore hope that a development of marine renewable energies will be included in this IMC, as well as the strengthening of the supply of maritime training, which will not only have to be the subject of a report, but will give rise to the opening of schools in the overseas territories in order to enable them to receive training adapted to these possible developments. I would also like to see a strengthening of the action or a renewal of the equipment of our various ports, because these tools must absolutely be up to the economic development that they can carry, each in its maritime basin. These tools, whether they be airports or ports, will allow the Overseas Territories to open up their regional cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u64	I call the "Overseas" mission's credits, listed in statement B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. I call Mr Serge Letchimy, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 948.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u65	Madam Minister, I would like to take advantage of Mrs Valérie Rabault's amendment to urge you to be very cautious about the plan to sell the state's heritage to the NIS at a price of EUR 1000 per dwelling. The idea of selling between 1000 and 3000 euros really calls for reflection, because 1000 euros is about the price per square metre. So be careful, because this case could take a scandalous turn, especially since if these houses are sold to tenants, it will not be at this price of 1000 euros. At the same time as the sale was under way, Saint-Martin suffered a 360-kilometre-per-hour hurricane, which affected 95% of the habitat and virtually destroyed 50% of the habitat. In addition, 60% of these dwellings were uninsured and were on land belonging to others – often in the state. The families concerned are very poor, very modest, and have no means. However, the relief fund is provided with only EUR 10 million, whereas, for having lived and suffered the hurricanes, we are many elected here to know what the consequences are for the heritage of people, especially modest households, who do not have insurance. At the same time, aid for habitat improvement is generally reduced by almost EUR 24 million and the zero-rate loan – PTZ – accession is abolished. Madam Minister, you cannot accept it. The proposal by Mrs Rabault and the co-signatories of this amendment is therefore to increase the amount of the relief fund to EUR 500 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u66	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u67	Mr Letchimy, it is clear that the emergency fund is under-funded. However, it is not possible to take, as you propose, EUR 490 million from the exemption of business expenses. In addition, it is a relief fund: reconstruction funds will take place elsewhere. The Government further indicated that the fund would be re-established and that emergencies would be addressed. I therefore suggest that you withdraw your amendment, failing which I will issue an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u68	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u69	The amendment is based on a finding that we all agree with: EUR 10 million is clearly insufficient when the cameras show us the devastation that can be caused by climate phenomena in the overseas regions. In Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy, the damage amounts to billions of euros, as has been said enough. Our colleagues are right to ask for an increase in the amount of the relief fund. As drafted, the amendment bothers me because it suggests that the solidarity of the overseas countries and territories, not national solidarity, meets the needs of the overseas countries and territories. But I also understand that it was a condition of admissibility of the amendment to regularly request the Government to lift the pledge. In these circumstances, I join the sponsors of the amendment: Madam Minister, if you agree to raise the pledge, we will all be able to adopt this amendment in consensus. Personally, I am in favour of this amendment, but I appeal to the wisdom of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u70	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would point out, however, that it is not possible to raise the pledge on these amendments. The Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u71	The reconstruction of Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy is a priority for the Government, you have no doubt; the presence of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister on the ground, as well as mine twenty-four hours after the cyclone, have demonstrated this. Accompanying the reconstruction of Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy has a cost. I share your view: it would be regrettable if this reconstruction were the task of the Overseas Ministry; We could not then speak of national solidarity. It is important that it is, as it is today, programmed over all the budgets of the interministerial group which is working on this reconstruction. The report by Mr Philippe Gustin, interdepartmental delegate for the reconstruction of the islands of Saint-Barthélemy and Saint-Martin, will allow us to quickly know the amount involved. We have already acted with the community. The Prime Minister has just signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the President of the Territorial Council for €62 million in 2017. Of course, we will go even further with the community, as well as with each individual, to meet the needs. The damage is enormous, the needs are enormous; we must help companies, we must help Saint-Martinois and Saint-Martinois: we do so through emergency aid. We took up the idea of the president of the community to hand over a prepaid card to all the residents of Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy next week. I also want to tell you that this EUR 10 million fund is the usual fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u72	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u73	This fund of 10 million is usual in the Overseas Ministry for all the disasters which, unfortunately, affect the overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u74	But the situation is exceptional!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u75	It will of course be completely outdated, as we know today: you have mentioned sums, which I will not do since the report will be submitted to me next week. But, of course, this emergency fund will be abounded as much as necessary, beyond what will be provided by all other departments. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u76	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u77	I would like to say to Mrs Bello that she has understood well: to make this amendment admissible, it was absolutely necessary to go through this artifice; I had no other choice. Madam Minister, I have experienced cyclones blowing at 250 kilometres an hour; We saved our lives by hiding under a bed. However, for almost a year and a half, for lack of money, we could not put sheets of sheet metal on the house: we stayed a year and a half to two years with what is called a " wax" in Creole, that is, a precarious cover. We got up, slept, slept with the moisture and water that fell on our heads. I don't know how the people of Saint-Martin will do it for a year or two, waiting for the repair work to be completed. We had a cyclone in Martinique: it took four to five years for people to get help! So I ask you to think about it. Perhaps we could imagine some kind of traveling vehicle going everywhere to mount the folders? In order to obtain assistance, it is essential to have all the approvals because there is co-financing with the participation of local authorities. A contribution is requested from families because the law, despite the amendments we have proposed, prohibits 100% funding. So it takes two years to build a file and get funding, and for two years people live under water. That is why I ask you to match the sums with the realities. Bring a contest to Saint-Martin. It's not Christic, it's not acting like Santa Claus! Give people immediate dignity! I mentioned a sum of 500 million: give 100 of it, from whatever funds it comes, but make a gesture! Make a commitment! You can't just say, "The Saint-Martinois just have to get out of their way! Even though Saint-Barthélemy said to you, "We're on our way! »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u78	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u79	We're supporting you! We're with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u80	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u81	I would like to hear everything, Mr. Member, but not the word "demerder"! I have a huge respect for the Saint-Martinois and Saint-Martinois: I saw them fighting on the ground, a few hours after the cyclone, I heard them talking with me about their needs – I was not the only one to hear them. As a first step, we provided the first support through the community's funds. We have, as a matter of urgency, proposed the solution of tarpaulins: it is not satisfactory, but when we are on the ground, we realize that an immediate response is needed. Tarpaulins are a one-off solution. Secondly, with regard to the aid we are putting in place, a prepaid card will be issued next week, up to a maximum of 900 euros per household. Beyond that, the quantified report will be submitted next week: it will mainly make it possible to draw on European funds. We need this European emergency fund: the communities of Saint-Martin and Guadeloupe are waiting for it. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I accept all the criticisms; you know how much I am for transparency and how important everyone's opinion is to me; But I will never accept the terms you used because I have too much respect and friendship for my friends in Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u82	Mr Yves Jégo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u83	I would like to associate myself with the question raised about this fund. You are right, Minister: the same amount is renewed from year to year. But I would like to draw your attention to the operational dimension: to refer to the European appropriations and those of the other ministries, it takes a crazy time, we know that! This fund has one virtue: being in the hands of the Minister of Overseas Affairs, it allows us to find ways very quickly. I can only agree with what has been said by Mr Letchimy on the need to act quickly in these circumstances. I was myself, a few days ago, in the West Indies: the gendarmerie of the Saintes no longer has a car or a boat, and two gendarmes travel on foot!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u84	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u85	If we have to wait for the time to obtain the funds from the Ministry of the Interior that will be directed towards this specific mission, we have to wait for months and months, while the relief fund would be able to meet these needs immediately. This fund is underfunded: in the name of efficiency, you should find a solution to mobilize more resources and to provide even faster, much more tangible answers. This does not, of course, prevent the more important structural answers, but you have a tool that you are depriving yourself of: it seems to me very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u87	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u88	Minister, I have no doubt about the state's commitment to the urgent reconstruction of the devastation caused by cyclones Irma and Maria. I also have no doubt about your personal commitment: I had the opportunity to tell you this when I saw you at work with us in Guadeloupe. I would, however, like to go back to this amendment, which I support even if it should not be managed on business support; We need to find another solution. We'll get emergency help, that's right. However, I am referring to the funds that will have to be allocated for reconstruction. I am sceptical when I hear the Prime Minister say last week, during his visit to Guadeloupe, that the State cannot be required to be the insurer of those who are not insured. Minister, I would like to know if you confirm, as the Prime Minister seems to say, that there will be no funding for reconstruction in addition to the insurance scheme. Will that be the case?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u89	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u90	I am speaking in support of this amendment. I believe that the State must play its full role in national solidarity. It is clear that the state is not limited to the overseas ministry and that all components of this government and budget must take an active part in this solidarity. I would also like to draw your attention to the length of the proceedings, as Serge Letchimy pointed out. Imagine people who end up with a torn roof; Imagine, full of bad luck, that this roof is loaded with asbestos: it is not only the discomfort that threatens, but the poisoning of the residents. This issue must be approached with maximum humility, but we have the opportunity to reconcile political will and discourse with action. A report is due next week: why don't we have one today? As part of this discussion, he could have informed us and assured us that things would be done in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u91	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u92	I would like to say to Mr.Jégo that he is right: the emergency fund will be abounded as much as necessary. It is the fastest, or at least the easiest, tool to master with regard to our overseas actions. It will meet the needs in the context of compensation for agricultural disasters and even support for fisheries. He will also pay for the public damage and, to answer another question, will take care of the support of the uninsured victims, whom we will help. Honestly, while some cases, during previous cyclones overseas, have not gone to the end, this has never been for financial reasons. We also decided that we would deal as urgently as possible with all of these cases; That's what we wanted in Saint-Martin. There will of course be a levy from the appropriations of all the ministries to abound this emergency fund; There will also be direct support from the various ministries.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u93	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 886.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u94	The overseas budget has seen only €1.4 million change between 2017 and 2018, less than inflation. So we cannot say that our budget is on the increase. The change in scope of payment appropriations allocated to overseas schools allowed only one thing: to show the indigence of state investment on programmes 138 and 123. To get into the details, in programme 123, the Government reduced the appropriations by €54 million for local and regional authorities, €3 million for housing, €2 million for health, social, cultural, youth and sports. On the other hand, it increased appropriations for access to bank financing by EUR 4 million and, under programme 138, EUR 48 million for business support. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We therefore propose to redeploy the EUR 50 million allocated to businesses from the budgets for housing, culture, youth and sports, which have been reduced. This amendment is complementary to the request for an information report on the effectiveness of aid to enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u95	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u96	The committee did not speak on this amendment. As you know, overseas companies are usually small, fragile businesses with fewer than five employees. It would therefore not be reasonable to withdraw these 55 million aid, since it is often zero-rate loans that allow them to co-finance their investments and create activity and employment, particularly for the benefit of young people. In my personal capacity, I therefore give an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u98	I do not agree with your reading of this budget, honourable Member: I maintain that it is an increase of 4% at constant scope and that programme 123 is an increase of EUR 32 million. As far as cost is concerned, transparency is total, since I have requested that the cost of deductions from social security contributions be assessed. These deductions allow all companies in our overseas territories to improve their competitiveness in their area, and you know how important it is for our companies to be able to develop in their respective geographical areas. It is therefore important to maintain this aid through programme 138. As you vote on this budget, it is important that things are clear and transparent for all. That is what I wanted, and my opinion is against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u99	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor in support of Amendment No 908.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u100	First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for the honour of being here this morning for the overseas budget. I also thank those of our colleagues in Hexagon who are also present. I would like to associate with all the fellow signatories of this trans-party amendment, which aims at restoring appropriations for the Green Fund mechanism that we created last year. In COP 23, Madam Minister, on the eve of the climate summit organized by the President of the Republic on 12 December, the abolition of these appropriations is a real nonsense. It would be a bad signal to vote on it, especially since this mechanism dedicated to the Pacific territories is taking off. In 2017, it financed solar equipment for public buildings, water systems; It helped to consolidate banks that had been flooded – we too, two years in a row, experienced natural disasters; It has financed a bioclimatic school, sanitation networks in the islands, a hybrid plant, photovoltaic lamps. Anyway, there's a real dynamic. If the entire envelope has not been spent, it is that the mechanism has only been in place since the end of the first semester. Do not tell us that it is unfair for it to be intended only for the Pacific COMs: if this mechanism has been put in place, it is precisely because they do not have the tools available to the other overseas territories, such as Cat Nat insurance. We are too autonomous to benefit from national and European funds and too French to have access to the Green Fund. That is why the President of the previous Republic committed himself to finding a solution to our territories. I can understand that you wanted a more ambitious plan and I have no doubt about your commitment to it: I know that you are sincerely committed to it. But we regret that you removed this device before we even found a solution. That is why, as well as in terms of defiscalisation, we ask you for a moratorium, or at least a substitute solution to finance the projects already committed for 2018 – from hybrid plants to Tuamotu, waste management in the Sous-le-Vent Islands, a hydroelectric plant in the Marquises – which already costs around 20 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u102	The committee has not voted on this amendment. Personally, I find that the removal of the Green Fund is a bad thing. The Minister had the opportunity to say that the possibility of extending this fund to all the overseas territories would be explored in early December in Paris. So I give a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u103	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u104	Nor was this amendment before the Committee on Economic Affairs. I have no doubt of your will, Minister, since you have placed the Assisi process in a sustainable development perspective. We can't sue you for deliberately eliminating the green bottom, but it's a very bad signal. The subject is not limited to natural disasters, Mrs. Sage. It is better to prevent than cure, and that is why the Green Fund is intended to accompany, in particular, the small islands, which are the first victims of climate change. We cannot gargle COP21 and at the same time reduce aid to the overseas islands. This calamity of climate change must at least restore the hand of islands, which traditionally have the capacity to resist and build a new development, particularly in energy policy. That is why I hope that this fund will be maintained, or at least that you will make a commitment to maintain the principle of this fund as early as 2018 and to strengthen it in another budget document, so as to be in line with your own policy. It would, in my view, be a wise solution, to which I personally am in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u105	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u106	I know your commitment on these matters, Madam Member. I would like to reiterate that the scheme is not being removed: there will be no additional funding, but all the projects involved will be funded. I prepared COP21 alongside Laurent Fabius. I was responsible for the relationship with developing countries, especially island States, and I know the difficulties of the islands of our Overseas Territories. As soon as the Green Fund was established at the international level, I said that France must do the same for its overseas territories. Hence the creation of a green fund equivalent, which is in fact a bonus of the loans of the Agence française de développement. When I arrived at the ministry, I found that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations had also launched "green growth" loans and financed engineering studies such as the Agence française de développement. In addition, funding from the Environment and Energy Management Agency, ADEME. I know that not all territories are treated in the same way. My will today is to abound this green fund in a much more substantial way, so that it can intervene in the Pacific, in territories hit by rising waters and cyclones, but also in all the overseas territories. We have just seen with Irma and Maria that the Caribbean too is concerned; The Indian Ocean is also. We all have to carry this project together. You are telling me that this is a bad message at COP23: on the contrary, COP23 and the meeting on 12 December must be an opportunity to ask for this green fund, especially since there has been no progress since COP21 on this issue of climate change adaptation financing – I remind you that I am among those who believe that this issue of adaptation needs to be addressed as much as that of mitigation. It is at a time when we are looking back at these adjustment issues that we must make a strong proposal, and I am counting on all of you. I ask you, Mrs Hulot, to withdraw this amendment to the benefit of the commitment that I am making to you, and that I am also taking on behalf of Nicolas Hulot, to mobilise all of our mechanisms to respond to the challenge of the Overseas Territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u107	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u108	We have the same objective, minister, but the end does not justify the means. While the current system is inadequate, it is working. These zero-rate loans have created a dynamic in our territories. We fought for this funding to also be used for adaptation, while only mitigation was targeted at the beginning of last year's budget discussion. We are also following international discussions on the Green Fund. Originally, this fund was intended to be used as much for adaptation as for mitigation, which is far from the case: it now finances 80% of mitigation projects, and they are mainly large projects. Until we get the creation of a green fund dedicated to the islands to finance adaptation, which is a very ambitious project and which I will support – I will talk about it in the COP in which I have to participate tomorrow – let's not delete what works. I hope that the Government will today at least commit itself to sustaining its support through PTZs for projects that are already in the pipeline and ready for next year. It is in this sense that we have proposed to recover EUR 22 million on business support, since it will be companies that will benefit from this fund tomorrow. So this is a truly virtuous system, minister. Today, we are very demanding with our communities. Being autonomous, they co-finance most of these actions with the State. When it comes, for example, to bringing solar energy to the bottom of an island of fifty inhabitants, municipalities with little resources are used at the level of 5, 10, 15 and 20 per cent. How do you think they provide this funding? These PTZs are a chance for these small communes, which I find they have jumped on this opportunity. They are the first beneficiaries. It is not a direct subsidy, since they allow them to take on their responsibilities by financing part of their investments. Instead of withdrawing this amendment, I would therefore prefer that we defend it together, unless you can offer us a concrete alternative solution to finance the identified projects in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u109	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u110	You were talking earlier about the projects already under way, Member, and I told you that they would be funded. This tool is not abounded in 2018, but it is not removed. I have heard your plea, and I agree to study each case without changing my strategy: the overseas budget cannot respond alone to the problems of mitigating the effects of climate change in the overseas territories. However, I can make a commitment to look on a case-by-case basis at the files that are now ready for the Pacific territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u111	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u112	Things are always imperfect. Maina Sage knows this well, since we have exchanged many times on this equivalent green, imperfect and unsatisfactory fund. But, though imperfect, things are happening. This equivalent green fund has impulsed, cahin-caha, despite everything, a necessary dynamic, vital and useful in territories of which Polynesia is an example among many others. The real challenge, in fact, is to preserve our future and not to disappear. Everyone agrees on this point: we arrived at the equivalent of the Green Fund because, at COP21, the Overseas Territories were referred to a Franco-French discussion. The international community has told us to settle our small business between us, that it is not of interest to us. It's unfair and incomprehensible. Maina Sage is fighting for European and even international involvement in this issue, which is an international subject, and is paving the way. But, Madam Minister, it is a matter of temporality. We must always, together, improve the arrangements: it is a responsibility here for us, but also outside, beyond this House. As long as things improve as you have the ambition, it is essential to maintain and continue to amplify the system implemented with AFD, and why not with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations – the CDC. I support Maina Sage's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u113	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u114	I strongly support the amendment tabled by Mrs Sage. Even if it is pointless to recall, in an environment where blue predominates, this green background is of enormous importance. The territories of the Pacific are in the area where the first climate refugees arrive, where the rise of water is a daily reality and where greenhouse gas emissions are the lowest on the planet. The first punished are the least involved in climate change. Moreover, in New Caledonia, where our economic and banking specificities mean that interest rates are 1 or 1.5 points higher on a regular basis, all operations for which a loan subsidy is available, as is the case with the Green Fund, are welcome. In fact, they are widely used, since, according to my information, more than EUR 35 million of projects have already been supported, particularly on Ouvéa, which is the smallest of the Loyalty Islands. Finally, New Caledonia firmly committed itself to its field of competence last year in an energy transition scheme that should lead us, modestly but on our scale, to be completely energy-autonomous in about 15 years. We have a pattern of adaptation and improvement. We need these tools. Minister, I know your determination and understand your strategy, but, I ask you, do not let go of the prey for the shadows.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u115	On Amendment No 908, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Yves Jégo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u116	My speech will give our colleagues time to join us for the vote, Mr President... Madam Minister, we all agree. You want to do better and more. But in the meantime, don't delete what exists. You are committed to finding funding on files that are not yet in the pipes, but are ready. We agree. Colleagues, it is also Parliament's role to give a hand to the minister who may not be able, in the context of executive arbitrations, to get everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u118	[[Smile]] It is up to us to affirm our will. By voting on this amendment, we are sending a message to COP23, Fiji, the Pacific – as a reminder, Polynesia is the size of Europe – and we are helping the minister, telling her that we are going to help her do better by keeping what already exists. We can reach a consensus. By being a little victim of a Parliament that has, despite you, maintained these budgets, Madam Minister, you will be better off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u120	On the credits of the Overseas Mission, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u121	Mrs Sage, I obviously share your analysis in the sense that the Green Fund, despite the difficulties that we have encountered and which you have raised, remains important. But, as the minister said, the device does not disappear, it is not removed. It has just made a commitment to the national representation that the projects undertaken will continue to be funded. She also explained that, for other projects, there would be a case-by-case evaluation. This is an important commitment to all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u122	On all subjects, we are always told the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u123	But how is it funded?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u124	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] For these reasons, I call on my colleagues to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u125	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u126	I put to the vote Amendment No 908.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u127	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 615.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u128	I thank all of our colleagues who have made a wise decision. My amendment concerns development contracts. Madam Minister, I also know your knowledge of the files, but I would point out to my colleagues that the Nouméa agreement, among its many specificities, introduces a financial support tool – these development contracts – which is the subject of a statutory obligation in the organic law. These contracts are doubly necessary: for the support of local authorities; and in terms of rebalancing, which is an objective of the Nouméa Accord and our emancipation process. Unfortunately, the latest generation of development contracts has burned us to the third degree, since, after six years instead of the five planned, we have reached a budget commitment rate of 78 per cent, which, down to a five-year scale, corresponds to 65 per cent compliance. The first year of the new generation of contracts 2017-2021, which envisages an annual commitment of €79 million from the State, has also resulted in a commitment of 64%. No one is coming back to this point today. For 2018, I am concerned that the inclusion of the €63.3 million is far from the €79 million. I therefore ask you to be willing to abound in the difference of EUR 15.7 million in order simply to achieve the annual contractualised commitment. This commitment is a strong obligation for communities and the Nouméa Accord process, particularly in the context of a tense economic situation due to the fall in nickel prices and the approach to the referendum, which results in a slowdown in the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u129	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u130	You are referring to neo-Caledonian issues, particularly in the referendum next year. You also refer to the State-region plan contracts, which are almost constitutional at home, and you notice the under-consumption of these contracts, a problem which, in reality, is not unique to New Caledonia, but to all the ultramarine territories. For my part, I propose that you withdraw your amendment, as far as the Overseas Assemblies are concerned. It will then be an opportunity to reconfigure for all the overseas territories, including New Caledonia, these new State-region plan contracts to ensure that the funds are consumed properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u131	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u132	We are all aware, in this debate, of going beyond the framework of the budgetary debate. The stakes of the year 2018 for New Caledonia are far superior to it, since it will decide on the subject of its full sovereignty. These are exceptional conditions in which the State has played its part, by holding in the preparation of the referendum the place of guarantor of the process. This place implies neutrality and respect for previous commitments. In these circumstances, I do not think it is appropriate, Madam Minister, to reflect on the commitments made at the time of the conclusion of development contracts. It's threatening the patiently built balance. In any event, and as with the previous amendments, I am opposed to stripping some overseas to dress others. Solidarity is exercised within the framework of the nation, which implies a lifting of the pledge by the Government. I personally support this amendment and appeal to the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u133	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u134	Mr.Member, we all agree on the issues at stake in New Caledonia in 2018, as a result of this referendum on self-determination. The development contract reflects the State's commitment to New Caledonia to support its economic development. I would also like it to be more focused on investment. If I have heard your request to upgrade the annual envelope, please know that I have asked New Caledonia for all of its needs for 2018. I have therefore adjusted the amount by adding EUR 4 million in commitment authorisations, bringing the amounts for 2018 to EUR 67.3 million, i.e., if I can say so, just what New Caledonia is asking for today. In view of the additional effort I have just made, honourable Member, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u135	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u136	In view of the additional information provided by the Minister and while thanking the rapporteur for her favourable opinion on the principle and my colleagues for their attention to the Caledonian dossier, I will withdraw my amendment. But before I do, I would like to see that, for the next few years of contract implementation, we do not wait for budget preparation or year-ends to question communities about what they think they can do. If asked earlier, they have a superior training capacity. Nevertheless, for the year 2018, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u137	I call Mr Olivier Serva, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 494.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u138	This amendment was an appeal amendment which was adopted by the committee to point out the need for tools and mechanisms to pre-finance overseas investment aid. Today, this pre-financing takes the form of a challenge for companies. It is a question of ensuring that the mechanisms that will replace the challenges will allow this pre-financing, in particular with tools such as the Public Investment Bank. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u139	Mr David Lorion has the floor to support Amendment No. 740.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u140	Mr President, Madam Minister, the purpose of this amendment is to create a State guarantee fund for pre-financing arrangements for the tax credit as defined in section 244 quater W of the General Tax Code. You are no doubt aware that the termination of the tax reduction schemes provided for in Articles 199a(B) and 217a(d) is conditional on the establishment of a permanent zero-rate pre-financing mechanism. To date, however, there is no pre-financing solution for the tax credit because banks, as well as Bpifrance, refuse to bear the risk of the company failing between the time of the debt's birth – placing the order to a supplier – and the time of the liquidation of the tax. The creation of the guarantee fund would mechanically have a positive effect on the finances of the State, as any investment transaction that would request the guarantee fund would ultimately have a lower cost to the State. That is why, for the sake of businesses, I ask you to set up this pre-financing fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lorion, this amendment, identical to the previous one, is a legitimate question, since it is a question of addressing the problem of the pre-financing of ultramarine companies; But we are waiting for the minister's answers on this point. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u143	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u144	I regret that the Special Rapporteur has withdrawn his amendment. The proposal, emanating from him, would have had more weight and could enable us to overcome this global impasse. This amendment reveals the situation of financing investment – productive or housing – overseas. Steps have been taken to stop the defiscalization, in some cases at the end of 2017, in others in 2020, and in 2025 for New Caledonia. Like my colleague Olivier Serva, I am in favour of a moratorium that will allow lasting solutions to be found. If next Thursday, in the context of the examination of the non-attached articles, the Special Rapporteur actually presents these amendments, I will vote for them because I consider that if we do not have to make defiscalisation a cult – his philosophical principle is to allow those who have financial means to invest money to earn even more – it can compensate for the 30% reduction in public investment in the overseas countries. The transition from the reduction to the tax credit requires pre-financing, and we have voted for an amendment to this effect, which I have tabled. The state has set up Bpifrance, but Bpifrance, a state baby, disobeys him by pretending to have no pre-financing solutions. In this context, the Overseas Territories – already faced with the investment problem and the consequences of the reduction in the number of aided contracts and other radical measures that eliminate any possibility of combating inequalities – will see their small businesses, which do not have the means to pre-finance their projects, live a small disaster. That is why I am in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u146	Mr Lorion, Mr Serva – since your amendments were identical – I know that SMEs have difficulty accessing the banking sector and that they do not have sufficient cash. Banking institutions need to improve their practices and ways of supporting businesses in the Overseas Territories and elsewhere; You have to tell them. I agree with you that the operating mechanism that has been put in place – the possibility for Bpifrance to make overseas development loans – is not satisfactory today, and I do not fail to recall it. The leaders of Bpifrance, whom I have met recently, must be more attentive. However, I am opposed to the creation of a pre-financing mechanism, as you propose, on the overseas budget. Let's pay attention to what we're putting in place! On the other hand, Mr.Serva, Mr.Letchimy – as you share this vision – I am in favour of your amendments to the non-attached articles, which aim to suspend the shift from defiscalisation to the tax credit, as things must continue in 2018 as before. In line with your wishes, we will begin a reflection on the reform of business aid, which should lead to the definition of new and more effective schemes and tools. I therefore ask you, Mr Lorion, to withdraw your amendment, because we are going to carry out this work and other amendments will be tabled to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u147	Mr Lorion, do you wish to withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u148	Mr. President, I'm keeping it. If the state does not set the example, through Bpifrance, by granting pre-financing to help small businesses, how do you want private banks to commit themselves to doing so? It is up to the State to set the example in the overseas departments, it is up to it to make an effort to give these SMEs the essence of their development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u149	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 916.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u150	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment, to which I join my colleagues in the New Left Group, is intended to encourage the consolidation of homes against seismic and cyclonic risks in the overseas regions, with an allocation of EUR 5 million. Formally, the amendment proposes to transfer these appropriations from action 1 of programme 138 'Overseas employment' to action 1 of programme 123 'Overseas living conditions'.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your question is logical and your request is entirely legitimate in view of the bad weather that the overseas countries, and especially the West Indies, have suffered in recent times. However, it would be a shame to take these funds from the Overseas Employment programme, as this would penalize our businesses. Above all, I have serious reasons to hope that we can succeed in examining the non-attached articles next week by means of amendments proposing other devices – notably the defiscalisation, which will benefit the most modest people, those whose incomes do not allow the renovation of the houses to meet the seismic and cyclonic risks. That is why, dear colleague, I ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u153	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u154	Mrs Manin, like you, I am convinced that we need to improve the tools we have to increase support for the renovation of private or social housing – an issue of the future. For this reason, I would like to further mobilise the fiscal leverage applied to work that responds to seismic and cyclonic risks. I am also very much in favour of a portion of the Ministry's housing credits being directed towards the renovation of buildings and their adaptation to climate change. I am committed, initially, to this amount of EUR 5 million. I have already made contact with the Environment, Planning and Housing Directorates, DEAL, and the prefectures concerned, and the circular on the single budget line, LBU, will be amended in order to fulfil this commitment. So, honourable Member, I am now providing part of the answer to your question, even though it still needs to be consolidated. On the form, your amendment is satisfied; I therefore ask you to avoid punctuating programme 138 by withdrawing your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u155	Mrs Manin, do you wish to withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u156	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u157	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u158	Minister for Overseas Affairs, your government will generally reduce the budget allocated to communities. Overseas communities will be more affected because, as a result of overall budget constraints, they will be reduced in support of more specific areas of government: housing, employment and territorial continuity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u159	It's dramatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u160	You will reduce the LBU by about 20 million euros, which will result in a significant decrease in the construction of social housing, while thousands of families overseas are waiting for housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u161	It's a real subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u162	The consequences will be dramatic for our small and very small businesses. In addition, the planned abolition of the personalized allowance for "accession" housing as of 1 January 2018 will directly affect the poorest. The scheme allowed monthly aid to be paid to first-time applicants according to their resources. Its removal will have a serious impact on housing construction, which will fall sharply as many buyers, no longer benefiting from this allowance, will no longer be eligible for bank loans. You will reduce the number of contracts assisted, and above all the rate of state participation in their financing. But more than 10% of our families survive with this device! Madam Minister for Overseas Affairs, I would like to draw your attention to the reduction in the LBU, the abolition of the "accession" allowance and the reduction of the State's participation in the financing of aided contracts, decided in an emergency. Unemployed people will be deprived of help and solutions. However, the unemployment rate in the overseas countries is twice that of the metropolis, and even three times that of our young people. The cost of living in the overseas countries and territories concerns the beneficiaries of assisted jobs and the unemployed, but also farmers and pensioners, who are just able to survive. Let me remind you that 45 per cent of the entire overseas population lives below the poverty line! Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, could you be more supportive of the difficult situation of our fellow citizens overseas and increase the budgets for this mission?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u164	Why don't you call your colleagues so they can come and vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u165	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u166	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I invite my colleagues to vote on the appropriations for the Overseas Mission which have just been presented to us. It is an increase of 4 per cent, a sincere budget that meets the most urgent needs of the overseas countries and territories, particularly in terms of employment. As for the concerns raised by some colleagues, they received reassuring answers and strong commitments from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u167	I put to the vote the credits of the Overseas Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u168	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 879.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u169	Studies on the coexistence of two languages in territories with strong relations of domination such as colonization indicate that diglossia is one of the most involved phenomena in the development of illiteracy. As Henri Boyer and Caroline Natali write, "What dominates the school is the language products of the dominant class: the introduction of Guarani to the democratic school therefore necessarily has a social, economic and political profitability. In the case of Paraguay, the educational diagnosis leading to the development of the Bilingual Education Plan highlights a high percentage of school absenteeism, school desertion and illiteracy estimated at 65 per cent. This means that the education provided so far in the Spanish language did not allow the Guarani monolinguals to succeed in school. » It would therefore be appropriate to assess the relevance of similar approaches within the overseas national education system in order to remove a large part of the population from illiteracy. We therefore call for the Government to submit to Parliament, within three months of the promulgation of this Finance Act, an information report "on the cost and savings of increased support for the teaching of overseas languages and cultures for those who request it and the promotion of the diversity of cultural and linguistic heritages. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u170	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u171	Dear colleagues of the La France group, your request is entirely legitimate. You are looking for information on language-related issues, especially in overseas areas, where there is a lot of illiteracy, and where regional cultures are strong. That is why, on a personal basis, I am giving a favourable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u172	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u173	Madam Member, as I recalled at the "Kréyol Month" festival in the Overseas Ministry, I feel doubly concerned about these linguistic and cultural issues. Because I am minister of overseas, of course, and ultramarine myself; but also because I was Secretary of State at la francophonie from 2014 to 2016. I have always asked myself this question: is there a Francophonie or Francophones? I think we need to look at the world in an open way, taking into account the evolution of the ways in which we speak French, and not stick to a monolithic or elitist vision, as we do today. Of course, the question of illiteracy also arises. This scourge, which permanently excludes a number of people, has never been combated except with financial means: there are therefore other questions to ask in order to overcome them. I am not a specialist in this matter, but the adapted teaching of French and regional languages could be experienced. I propose that you discuss this issue within the framework of the Overseas Assises, because there is a real problem here: it must be answered. I largely agree with what you said, Madam Member. The Government therefore relies on the wisdom of the Assembly in this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u174	I would remind you, simply for your information, that this Assembly can produce all the reports it wants without having to ask the Government for them. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u175	I'll be brief, Mr. President. We did not speak in explanation of vote just now, so I would like to take this opportunity to thank our colleagues for their support for our amendment on the Green Fund. I would also like to announce that the Constructive Group will vote in favour of this budget. Many amendments to request reports from the Government had been tabled; they were interesting. You know that the law of 28 February 2017 on programming on real equality overseas – known as the EROM law – provides for the submission of about ten reports on fundamental issues for our territories. Beyond these specific demands, all this shows the lack of information, of statistics, on all areas of life in the overseas countries and territories. The question of education, for example, was the subject of much debate during the examination of the draft law on programming for real equality overseas: we had, for example, called for the creation of a university chair dedicated to overseas literature. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] Polynesian societies are marked by bilingualism, and even more so: by genuine multilingualism, since seven different languages are practiced there, with Tahitian in the foreground. Tahitian is an almost official language, widely practiced: our newspapers are bilingual. This is therefore an important issue for our territories. Studies in the Pacific show that promoting bilingualism at school helps our children achieve better academic results. We will therefore support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u176	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u177	First of all, I would like to thank the Special Rapporteur and the Minister for their openness. To break the nail, I would like to give you a figure concerning illiteracy: it affects 7% of the population in metropolitan France, 33% in Mayotte, 23% in Réunion. This is an extremely worrying problem: in order to combat it, we must have a state of affairs. Equality is at the heart of the republican triptych freedom-equality-fraternity. If we want this motto to be applied overseas, then we must ensure equality before reading, before education. I therefore believe that a report on this issue would be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u178	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u179	For all the reasons that have been mentioned, and given the importance of these issues, we are in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u180	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 880.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u181	[[Smile]] I thank the House for its vote in favour of Amendment No 879. Let's hope it goes on like this!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u182	You mustn't be too demanding!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, business aid is a matter of debate. In particular, thanks to France Stratégie's steering report, we have seen that the CICE cost extremely high, for a minimal effect on job creation or maintenance. At a time when public expenditure is being reduced, we need to be able to assess all the schemes relating to aid to businesses and banks. Within each programme of the Overseas Mission there is an action on which we consider it necessary for Parliament to exercise its control. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We therefore call for an information report on "the concrete results and actual effectiveness of aid to overseas enterprises, in particular the funds allocated under Action 01 "Support for enterprises" of the Overseas Employment Programme 138 and Action 09 "Support for access to bank financing". This report will in particular assess the support for economic autonomy in these territories, quantify the ratio between job creation and allocated funds, i.e. the estimated cost in euro of a new job created and supported as such. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u184	On Amendment No 885, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 880?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u185	My dear colleague, the question you are asking about the effectiveness of the budgetary effort for employment and the creation of businesses in the overseas regions is entirely legitimate. I note that the rate of employment growth in exempt firms was 2.1 % overseas, compared with 0.2 % for hexagonal firms meeting the same sector and size criteria: this clearly shows that these funds have their own justification. Furthermore, I would like to tell you that during the Overseas Assemblies, we will have the opportunity to flatten all of these devices and, if necessary, to identify reliable indicators which will enable us, from year to year, to verify the convergence of these ultramarine territories with respect to Hexagon. That is why I personally give an unfavorable opinion to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u187	Mr President, we will answer your question in the context of the reflections, the work we have launched to find out which tool will replace the CICE in 2019 for the overseas countries and territories. From this point of view, we will write on a blank page. At the same time, we will ask ourselves about the effectiveness of all the other accompanying mechanisms that currently exist, so that – this is our objective – we can design more differentiated, more targeted, more territorialised tools. It seems to me that this objective is shared on almost every bench in this House, for the support of companies overseas. A cross-cutting working group has been set up to explore ways and means to improve the financing of ultramarine economies and support employment. I know that you will probably also work on this within the framework of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories. Much of the Blue Book that will result from the Overseas Assisis will address this issue. I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u188	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u189	Mr President, in view of the Government's openness, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u190	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 882.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u191	I only visited overseas once: it was after the struggle led by the collective LKP – Liyannaj kont pwofitasyon, that is, Collective against "profit" – in Guadeloupe. On this occasion, I was surprised by the prices displayed in the shops, which were almost worse than in Paris! This is statistically true, since according to INSEE the cost of food in 2016 is 30% higher in the overseas countries than in the mainland. Returned to the overall cost of living, this difference would be 7 to 12 per cent. Some sectors, such as health and telecommunications, are more affected than others. It would therefore be beneficial to have a thorough study on the inequalities in the cost of living between the metropolis and the overseas countries. I spoke five minutes ago about illiteracy: I recalled that the republican motto applies to all the territories of the Republic. It must also be applied in the field of standard of living, including housing: a study addressing these issues would therefore be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u192	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u193	What you have just described is entirely justified overseas and specifically in the West Indies. We were, moreover, you and I, in 2009, on the same tarmac in Guadeloupe. Your amendment, which aims to shed light on differences in living standards overseas, is already satisfied with this beautiful law that was passed in February 2017 for real equality overseas; It is now a matter of implementing it. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u195	A report was requested from INSEE, which includes indicators of overseas poverty. He's in the final stages. However, as the rapporteur has also said, such work is already provided for in the Programming Law for Real Equality Overseas, known as the EROM Law. It provides for convergence plans for all the overseas territories. It also lays down, as a prerequisite for the drawing up of these plans, the realization of new findings in these territories in order to measure the delays that exist in certain areas in relation to the metropolis – or Hexagon, as you like to say. I would like to measure the situation of those Territories against the 17 sustainable development goals defined by the United Nations, the first of which is aimed at eradicating poverty. France is committed to meeting these 17 targets by 2030; I would like us to consider the situation of the overseas countries and territories from this point of view. I confirm that your request is met both by the work we are doing in accordance with the EROM law and by the work we are going to do in the framework of the Overseas Assises. That is why, although I fully understand your inquiry, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u196	Mr Ruffin, is Amendment No 882 retained?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u197	I am on the same line as my comrade Jean-Hugues Ratenon, because I am not an overseas specialist. He asked me to keep it, considering that the situation was serious enough to justify a specific report on the issue of inequality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u198	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u199	I support this amendment. It is true that the EROM law does not solve everything, as in fact the Lurel law of fight against expensive life. The problems remain. I call on colleagues to reflect on this phenomenon of expensive living, of excessive prices, which must not be analysed in terms of delay in development, but indeed in terms of blocking development. It is not just a matter of aiming for convergence: we must aim for a justice system that must require each other to draw less excessive margins, wherever possible, on the backs of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u201	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor to respond to the Committee and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u202	My objective is not specifically to respond to the committee, but, like my colleague Jean-Philippe Nilor, to point out that there are principles to be respected, which allows me to tell the minister how sceptical I am about our collective capacity to implement this law on real equality overseas. That is why I asked under what conditions it would be implemented. We've heard so many promises, so many reports... I was under the last legislature as a member of the State's National Policy Assessment Commission overseas: we are not giving up reports, making recommendations, which to date have not been followed up. You will therefore understand, Madam Minister, that we are now inclined to doubt. It is not a question of defiance, let alone distrust or breach of trust, but of the situation in which we are plunged, and which worries us: every time we question one or the other, we are referred to these Assizes of the Overseas, of which we do not really know what they will be formed and what they will be able to achieve. These are reasons why I wholeheartedly support the amendment proposed by colleagues in La France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u203	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u204	This amendment is very important, because if there is the EROM law, there has also been the so-called Lurel law on economic regulation, and we have found that despite the efforts made within the framework of the latter, it is still very difficult to avoid, Jean-Philippe Nilor said, these inextricable extra costs, of the order of 30% to 50% for the basket of the housewife. So there is still a lot of work to be done, which, I stress, poses a problem of political philosophy and economic model. I said in the gallery that the model was fucked up. "No bout" in Creole, that is, in French, we arrived at the end of the road. We need to change our model, make a policy of economic emancipation so that we are not overly dependent on massive consumption and massive imports. It is the only way to regulate the economy by ourselves, through internal dynamics. Not only do we need reports – I will vote for this amendment in solidarity – but we need to impose on Europe the choice of a much more constructed policy towards amplification of internal development through the application of Article 349 of the Treaty of Lisbon, to tell the nation and the state that there are possible synergies between these territories, not just dependence on Hexagon. The desire for independence or food autonomy does not lead to independence or political autonomy: it is only a question of survival, because these populations will otherwise not end up facing each other politically. That is why I am giving the amendment a more political than strictly literary meaning, because this report must not end up in your government's drawers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u205	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u206	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor on this subject. I would like to inform Mr Ratenon that the delegation to the overseas countries and territories has recently carried out a report on expensive living, and the three co-rapporteurs, Mr Robert, Mrs Lebec and Mrs Lecocq, will shed light on these elements. I think we are aware, on every bench, that this is important. As such, I reiterate my request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u207	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u208	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I want to repeat at this stage of the debate that I understand the concern that is expressed and even your impatience – I sometimes share it – and I know that you will all remain vigilant about what we will be able to build in the coming year. But the Overseas Assises are going to be what every territory will want to do with it. It will also be time to discuss convergence contracts. I agree, Mr Letchimy: the overseas models are now totally to be reviewed. However, I refuse, a fortiori after six months, to make a proposal without co-building it with you and all your colleagues, without co-building it with the territories, their elected representatives, but also the citizens who, they have shown us in the last presidential elections, do not even move to vote because there is a breach of trust. And perhaps it is through dialogue and within the framework of the Assizes that we will find the answers to this. In any case, I wish it and that is the meaning of my gesture: to co-build so to provide answers from after June 2018, and even more strongly in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u209	Mr Ratenon, I am asking you the same question as Mr Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u210	Mr President, I understand the explanations given by the Special Rapporteur and the Minister. A report was planned in the context of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, but it would focus mainly on economic development. I maintain our amendment, because it is indeed a political debate that we intend to establish. The situation is serious enough. Of course, a number of mechanisms have been put in place, but inequality persists, very much present, and we believe that there is a real need to try to unlock all this. There are, of course, some brakes, but there are also abuses that need to be identified.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u211	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor to support Amendment No. 885.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u212	First of all, I should like to note the state of mind in this House when considering this text. This is not always the case, but I believe that today intelligence and wisdom prevail. It is rare enough to note it as a symbol of what overseas can bring in terms of tolerance and serenity to France. The aim of the amendment is to draw up a report on the need to increase the rate of public funding for the implementation of habitat improvement work as long as the presence of active asbestos is proven. This provision, which could take place on a constant budget – it has been understood that this can only be the case – within the limits of the dedicated envelope, would be applicable to specific cases in order to allow the financing of the works and to reduce the 20% share of the total costs imposed on the beneficiaries. Indeed, the inability of the owners to finance these 20% and the restrictive interpretation of the deterioration of the building by the DEAL – direction of the environment, of the development and of the housing – effectively exclude the poorest from the existing arrangements, condemning, in Martinique alone, nearly 8,000 houses loaded with asbestos to the unsanitary. Even more serious, 70% of buildings have asbestos potential, and public buildings – schools, hospitals – are also affected. More than 3000 asbestos-containing products have been used for roofs, facades, partitions, paints, sewerage systems, etc. Today, in Martinique, whole estates, including state co-financed subdivisions in the context of social home ownership, are loaded with asbestos and the most modest families are forced to finance the asbestos removal of their homes themselves, with aid capped at 9,000 euros when the works reach bleakly 45000 euros. It is therefore whole homes that are condemned to remain exposed to these dangerous materials! [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Madam Minister, you know that you cannot give an opinion against such an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u214	In view of the arguments put forward by our colleague Jean-Philippe Nilor, I can only deliver an opinion in favour of his request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u215	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u217	I am fully aware of the problem that you raised, honourable Member, especially since you told me about it during my visit to Martinique a few days ago. Indeed, it is difficult to see so many projects blocked because the owners are unable to bring the necessary 20% to the planned financing plan. Moreover, the presence of asbestos makes the cost of operations even more complex and expensive. This is a real problem, given that there is no structured sector in this field in the overseas territories. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, on many benches of the FI group and on some benches of the REM group]] With regard to the method, it is a question of identifying a legislative vehicle that allows us to increase the share of public funding and to decide what level to set it. Not for your conclusion concerning me, but for your substantive argument, I am expressing an opinion in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u218	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u219	The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the two favourable opinions it has just heard and notes that this is the second time in this budgetary debate that, on the issue of asbestos, we are moving towards unanimity to take account of this scourge which can hit everyone and everyone. We are pleased to vote on this amendment, which will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u221	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u222	Mr Nilor, you are raising a serious problem, that of asbestos, which particularly affects the most modest families. Your request for a report is absolutely legitimate, and our group, The Republic on the move, will vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u223	I put to the vote Amendment No 885.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u224	At this stage of our discussions, I would like to point out to you that we still have fourteen amendments to consider. They are all intended to ask the Government for reports, which is a bit specific in the context of a budgetary debate. I therefore invite you to be brief if we want to be able to examine them before the end of the meeting. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 904.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u225	It deals with a problem which particularly affects the department of Guyana: the wild gold-ploughing, which is an offence which one struggles to really take measures of. The environmental degradation of which it is the cause is considerable, and the damage to the health of the inhabitants which it causes is particularly serious, especially because of the use of mercury which, although banned in 2006, continues to be used by wild goldsmiths. Local people feel that the State is not in a position to cope with the development of this phenomenon, so we would like the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the economic, social, ecological, human and budgetary consequences of this clandestine ordeal, as well as on the means necessary to overcome it. This report would allow us to move forward in solving this major problem for this department. We therefore hope that the Special Rapporteur, like the Government, will give a favourable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u227	Dear colleague, the problem that you are talking about is fundamental, particularly in Guyana: at the highest summit of the State, did the President of the Republic, some ten days ago, vigorously address this issue. On this occasion, he gave very strong assurances regarding the fight against gold-plating: that is why I consider your request for clarification to be satisfied and ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u229	Indeed, the damage caused by illegal goldploughing, as well as the damage to biodiversity, natural habitat, health and the environment of the local populations of which it is the cause, is considerable. You are right, honourable Member: this phenomenon is a real scourge for local people. The President of the Republic has therefore reaffirmed his ambition in the fight against illegal orpainting in Guyana, which includes the rehabilitation of the Harpie system. I remember seeing your colleagues representing Guyana fighting here to get it put in place: it was a complicated fight, after which they won. Additional resources will also be put in place, and the cross-cutting nature of the services involved will be strengthened so that the State is more effective and relevant in this fight on the ground. But this answer must also be given in the context of cross-border cooperation: I am pleased to have received yesterday the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Suriname, with whom we signed a cooperation agreement concerning the maritime delimitation of our respective waters, and which was very sensitive to this question of the fight against illegal goldploughing. For your information, I would add that the amount of confiscated criminal assets in 2016 has just set a record as it amounted to 18 million euros. Yes, we need to strengthen the system and yes, we will. For all these reasons, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment, since we have now been moving on this path for a few months now.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u230	Mr Lachaud, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u231	In light of the information you have given us, Madam Minister, and the commitment of the President of the Republic, we will withdraw our amendment, hoping that in 2018 these announcements will be followed up. We will be particularly vigilant on this point; and if unfortunately the progress you promise us is not on the table at that time, we will resubmit this amendment next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u232	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, in support of Amendment No. 932.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u233	Mr President, I do not know why you blame us for asking for reports by way of amendment. Indeed, a government report benefits from means that we do not have. It seems to me that these requests are part of parliamentary activity. You know that before you took up your current duties, you also asked for such reports.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u234	Mr President, I do not blame you at all: you have the right to do whatever you want. I simply pointed out that all these amendments – of which we have understood the purpose, which is to allow their authors to speak on specific subjects – are intended to ask the Government for reports, while we are in a budgetary debate. Other amendments have been tabled and discussed on the budgetary aspects of our debate this morning: we have already devoted a great deal of time to them. I have simply pointed out that this practice is limited to the deviousness of the budgetary debate, but I would also point out that I give you the floor successively, hoping that our debate will end in time and time, because I believe that is in everyone's interest. Mr Corbière, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u235	[[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] I will say no more, but I do not think it is in your role to judge whether or not what we are doing is relevant. Frankly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u236	I'm not judging.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u237	Let's get to the bottom of it. The Amazon forest is, as we know, the largest in the world and is its largest reservoir of biodiversity. It covers an area ten times greater than that of France and covers part of the territory of Guyana. It must be regarded as a natural jewel, not only because it allows human life, but also because it houses a fauna and flora that we have a duty to preserve. Since 1970, as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, almost 20% of this forest has disappeared as a result of deforestation and human activities. In ten years, a wooded area equivalent to that of France has disappeared. Most of the cleared land is used to produce feed for livestock. This deforestation puts our ecosystem at risk: we therefore propose to study the possibility of extending the Amazonian Park of Guyana and to strengthen measures to protect the Amazonian forest. It seems to me that on such a subject there could be a consensus. This is the purpose of the requested report, which would allow us to see under what conditions this extension could take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u239	Mr Corbière, I repeat what I said earlier, because I do not know if you were present: the Assembly does not need to ask for permission from the Government to draft reports and deal with a number of issues. There are many procedures for this. It happens that you and your group use them; I invite you to continue. What is the opinion of the committee on this amendment calling for a report?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u240	Mr President, the Committee on Finance has not voted on this amendment. In any case, here too, you refer to a global problem. In the West Indies, especially on the coast, Guadeloupe and Martinique, as well as in Marie-Galante, we sometimes also suffer the effects of deforestation, which are manifested for example by massive groundings of sargasse algae. For having visited Guyana ten days ago, I can testify to the fact that the local forces, both governmental and citizen, are very vigilant and very sensitive to this issue. At the highest summit of the State, in addition, the President of the Republic reaffirmed his commitment to protect the Amazon forest. For all these reasons, as with the previous amendment, I would like you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u242	Member of the European Parliament, I would warn you against the Parisian visions which tend to generalize the problems. Indeed, if one compares the situation in Guyana and in the neighbouring countries, it has been contained in the first one: one can be proud of it. It is often thanks to the local populations and elected representatives of the territory that such results are achieved. This debate does indeed deserve to take place. It has and will take place on site. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u243	Mr Corbière, do you stand by or withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u244	I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u245	I call Mr. Gabriel Serville to reply to the committee or to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u246	I could indeed, Mr President, reply to the rapporteur or to the minister. But I would really like to make a small reminder: I have been debating on the benches of the House for a very long time, and I have rarely heard a President remind Members who are tabling amendments to ask for reports that there are other ways to get them. I believe that, on the contrary, Members should be able to speak and speak as soon as possible, knowing that the amendments they are tabling do not always go through the filter of Article 40 of the Constitution. This necessarily forces us to go through other channels if we want to address a number of issues. I come back for a few seconds to the previous amendment, although I know that I am not allowed to do so. Again, I am skeptical: I have heard President Sarkozy talk about illegal goldploughing, as after him President Hollande, and today I hear President Macron do the same. I am therefore not at all convinced that the measures that will be put in place will make it possible to combat this phenomenon which cruelly affects the health of Guyanans as well as the economy of Guyana. It has been a long time since we made recommendations and made recommendations, but they have not been followed by successive governments at all. It is also for this reason that I would like to endorse the amendment proposed by my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party, because even when the elected representatives and civil society in Guyana are in motion to demand greater respect for their territory and to demand that its integrity be respected, and in its entirety, we feel that our Republic is unable to establish its authority and assume its responsibilities in this part of the national territory. I am therefore extremely in favour of the amendment by our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u247	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u248	We address the subject that is almost the most serious, since the future of the planet is at stake. A report from the "Cash Investigation" program recently linked Paradise Papers to the deforestation of the Amazonian forest, in this case in Brazil.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u249	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u250	This is a serious matter. That is why we could send out a sign, certainly not strong, but modest, showing that we are taking this problem seriously. And then I would like to greet our colleagues from overseas: thanks to them, this is the first time that I feel really well in this House. In this debate, you allow us to go beyond partisan boundaries, even if there are disagreements within groups as well as between you. You are contemplating the interests of your territories, and thus manage to overcome these disagreements by finding ways to enable your amendments to receive favourable opinions and to be adopted. So you're moving the lines a little bit. [[Applause on several benches]] This is the first time since the beginning of this Parliament that I feel that way. I would therefore like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for allowing us to live this here. I hope that your approach will have a contagion effect on all metropolitan Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u251	[[Smile]] It doesn't work all the time either!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u252	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor in support of Amendment No 909.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u253	Tourism is today a crucial economic development issue for all of our ultramarine communities. Yet the huge opportunity of tourism remains largely ignored. The overseas tourism sector, which recovers timidly and partially from the many crises it has experienced over the last fifteen years – I am thinking of the earthquake of 2007, chikungunya, cyclones, chlordecone, and I am passing – is struggling to develop because it still suffers from major handicaps. The strong regional competition faced by ultramarine communities is a determining factor, while operating and production costs in the tourism sector are often much higher than elsewhere. In addition, the continuing crisis in the hotel sector, particularly in the French Antilles and in La Réunion, hampers the re-starting of the sector. In addition to these structural factors, there are cyclical problems, such as frequent social and health crises and the climate challenge, in particular, as I pointed out, due to the increasing number of cyclonic episodes. In view of this, it is high time to act decisively: the priority must be to implement a competitive shock in favour of the ultramarine tourism sector. To be effective, it must be consistent and up to the level of regional competition to which our ultramarine territories suffer. It could therefore take the form of a competitiveness and employment tax credit, a CICE, increased to 37% in the overseas sector. Elected representatives, investors and tourism professionals consider this to be the preferred way to send a strong signal in favour of the sector and create the conditions for its economic take-off. It is undeniable that this measure would have a short-term cost, but it would, however, be tripled by the termination of the application of the CICE to protected sectors, by the end of the social security exemptions in favour of the tourism sector and, ultimately, by the economic activity generated by this tax investment. This measure is therefore not seen as aid to the ultramarine territories but as an investment for their development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u255	My dear colleague, the Committee on Finance has not voted on this amendment. You raise a key issue for the ultramarine territories, namely the promotion of tourism and the reduction of labour costs in this sector. The hearings I conducted led me to think initially that this was a good solution. However, in the current state of affairs, there is no unanimity among ultramarine companies on the proposal for an increase in the CICE rate with a constant envelope – i.e. that other sectors, such as banks, insurance or large-scale distribution, may no longer benefit from it. That is why, in the dual light of the launch of the Overseas Assises and the disappearance of the CICE, I suggest that we take the time, in the coming months, to find the most suitable tools to defend the tourism sector in the overseas. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u257	Madam Member, I am in favour of creating an ecosystem favourable to the development of tourism in the overseas territories. We are going to carry out this work within the framework of the Overseas Assises. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u258	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u259	On the basis of the answers received, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u260	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u261	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 913.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u262	Minister, I will be brief because I know you share my concerns. We have very important contractual and financial relations with Europe. It is thanks to Article 349 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union that we can stabilise the price of bananas – which is a monoculture, with the consequences we know. It is also thanks to this article that we can stabilize the price of rum and sugar and ensure that production is maintained. However, a country cannot live on monoculture alone. What we want to say is that a country must be able to live from its own production. Since we are land of production, imagination and fertility, I propose that agricultural diversification be considered in the same way as rum and bananas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u264	My colleague, your amendment is entirely justified. In our ultramarine territories, we must be able to take an interest in agriculture in all its facets. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u266	As I have already said to you, Mr President, I believe that this request for a report, within a realistic deadline – which is important – is an excellent idea. This will reinforce the work undertaken by the Government in line with the announcement by the President of the Republic and following the meetings we have had with the outermost regions of Guyana, in the presence of the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker. The extension of the scope of the POSEI, the programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity, in conjunction with the European Union's strategy for the outermost regions, is something that we must succeed. In order to save time, I am in favour of this amendment and the next one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u267	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u268	This amendment has not been submitted to the Committee on Laws, but I would like to express my personal opinion to the House. The objective of food autonomy, as well as the need to develop short circuits, calls for agricultural diversification. At the Meeting, this diversification is a reality. For example, we produce three quarters of the fruit and vegetables consumed on site. This does not prevent fears, particularly since the disappearance of European sugar quotas on 30 September. Réunion sugar, which had previously been protected, is now in direct competition with all other products, including beet. A €38 million allocation has been made available for the sugar industry in the overseas departments and regions; 28 million are destined for the Meeting. I hope that this will be enough to preserve this important link in our local production.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u269	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u270	I would like to support this amendment and thank the Minister. The amendment raises two fundamental questions. The first is the future of the outermost regions in 2020, as part of the European strategy. What will be France's position on specific strategies? In his report, Younous Omarjee believes that we must strike a balance between the common law and the exception, and move ever further towards the exception in order to unlock the economic dynamics and the new models of economic development by freeing them from what is hindering them today. The second, in relation to the subjects we discussed earlier, is agricultural diversification. Its support requires, of course, the consolidation of sectors, but also food security, which is very important for us, who are lost in the midst of ocean basins, and the fight against expensive living, through the promotion of short circuits. By strengthening agricultural diversification, we will thus act on the economy, security and expensive living.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u271	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u272	I, too, support the amendment. In addition to what has been said, particularly by our colleague Ericka Bareigts, it can be considered that the promotion of an agriculture that would be off the beaten track and export monocultures can only be a good thing, as it will eventually – at least we hope – allow it to emerge from a form of dependence. I therefore strongly support this amendment. [[Smile]] You see it: the lines are moving today. It is not often that I have the opportunity to support an amendment by Serge Letchimy – but when it goes in the right direction, I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u273	It takes a start to everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u274	I call Mr Serge Letchimy to support Amendment No. 914.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u275	Fishing is the second area of activity we would like it to benefit from POSEI. At present, Europe considers that because of the overfishing context, it is imperative to control investment, particularly in the European fleet. However, mimicry in the application of the law leads Europe to disregard Article 349 of the Lisbon Treaty, which allows for derogations and the application of overfishing in the West Indies, Réunion and elsewhere in the overseas world. At the same time, Europe allows the big fishing trusts to crisscross our waters and compete with local fishermen. That is why I believe that the POSEI should be extended to the fisheries sector. It is essential to facilitate the renewal of the fleet and the support of training. I know the minister is in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u276	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u277	My colleague, you are referring to a fundamental question, which has been a very satisfactory development very recently, since ten days ago, in Guyana, the President of the European Commission loosened a bit of the stranglehold that would hold state aid. Above all, it considered that the ultramarine fleets were small fleets engaged in trap fishing and that they had, as a matter of priority, net fishing and fish-concentration arrangements, the need for assistance in order to be able to operate and renew the vessels. That is why the committee is issuing a favourable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u278	Minister, do you confirm the Government's favourable opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u279	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u280	Mr Letchimy, in support of Amendment No. 915, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u281	This is an appeal amendment. I would like to make you aware of the issue of economic emancipation one more time, Madam Minister. It is necessary to ensure that our countries... – I say "our countries", not the overseas departments and territories or the metropolis, terms that refer to something that does not exist, since the term "metropolitan" implies the existence of a colony. But I do not live in a colony, and that is why I refuse the term "metropolitan", as well as that of "ultramarine". I am first and foremost Martinique and Caribbean, within the French Republic, and I assume it. That is why I believe that we must have a double-differentiated status. In relation to the departments, on the one hand: that Guadeloupe has an economic development strategy, I understand it, but I may not share it; Guyana is evolving, and so are we. We must therefore be able to pursue differentiated policies. On the other hand, there is a need for a policy differentiated from the state. This is why tools must be put in place to support new economic models, so that the development of these countries can be assumed locally. That is why I propose the creation of "free zones"; Another term may be preferred, but it is a question of finding an economic status that would "booster" the local economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u282	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u283	My colleague, you are raising a fundamental question, namely the tax support for ultramarine companies and, more generally, for overseas departments. However, your amendment is already satisfied, since the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas, adopted on 28 February 2017, provides for the submission of a report that accurately reflects the expression you are proposing. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u284	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u285	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u286	Mr Letchimy, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u287	[[Smile]] The verb "remove" is not appropriate, Mr. Chairman; I would rather put the amendment on a break. I'm not taking anything back. Intellectually and morally, I want to support the same rhythm and continue to ask the state to follow one of the truths that Aimé Césaire had given me: "Looking at nature you will find". It is not on the basis of the colonial system on which the present economy develops that the modernity of Martinique will be based tomorrow. We need to emancipate ourselves culturally, personally and economically. If we do not, we will remain dependent. However, I do not think that Mr Macron's policy allows us to remain forever in a relationship of solidarity and, above all, in a relationship with a motherland that would give us everything. We must therefore emancipate ourselves and take responsibility. We solemnly ask you to do so. I consider that today the state no longer has room for manoeuvre. You're out of order. You don't have any more solutions to offer us. We do not ask for it; We want the ideas we produce on the spot to be accompanied by the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u288	Mr Letchimy, I understand that it was not a withdrawal at the moment, but from the point of view of our Rules of Procedure, is that a good thing?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u289	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u290	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 925.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u291	With this amendment, we want to address another crucial issue for the ultramarine territories, in particular the island territories, namely their supply of hydrocarbons. This is essential for the survival of populations in these territories. In the face of climate change, the urgency is to develop locally produced clean, renewable energies. The development of the maritime economy would be a powerful tool in this regard. However, we must manage the urgency, and that is why we are raising the issue of the monopoly, or quasi-monopoly, which some oil companies have in these territories. The State itself acknowledged that there was a situation of oligopoly. We therefore hope that a report will establish the economic and budgetary costs and consequences of calling these monopolies into question, and indeed of their nationalization. It is not possible for private companies in the Republic to have a monopoly on strategic products in a given territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u292	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u293	Dear colleague of France, you raise a fundamental question, which has already been studied at length, in particular following the events of 2009. We have found solutions to be introduced in this and other texts. This includes controlling the margins of entities in monopoly, upstream, or oligopoly, downstream. However, the idea of nationalization does not seem to us to go in the direction of history. It would be preferable, in our view, to favour competing energies, particularly renewable ones. On November 23rd, the overseas delegation is organizing a beautiful presentation on the theme "France, the giant of the seas: the overseas countries facing the challenge of blue growth"; offshore wind energy and alternative energies are the way that we consider reasonable. Opinion against, therefore, this request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u294	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u295	The limited liability company of the West Indies refinery, SARA, is subject to a regulated monopoly, under which the State fixes prices on the basis of a decree adopted in 2013. Sometimes, in some territories, fixed prices even induce lower prices than in Hexagon. The tool is therefore satisfactory, and nationalization would bring nothing more. Unfavorable opinion. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, the Government intends to place the continuation of the discussion of the overseas mission's appropriations this afternoon at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u296	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-09-O1046.u297	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2018: further to the review of the overseas mission's appropriations; review of the "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" mission appropriations. The meeting is adjourned.
