ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the group spokespersons for the "Research and Higher Education" mission. Mrs Maud Petit, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, Madam and Mr Special Rapporteurs, draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, the text on student guidance and success will shortly be examined by Parliament. The Student Plan, the first stage of reform, is a positive signal that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement approves and accompanies, because it is fair, pragmatic and intelligent. It is in this perspective that we have examined the appropriations of the mission "Research and higher education", which are progressing favourably. The increase in these credits will allow the support of the emerging student, the transformation of training and the valorisation of French-language research. It is therefore first of all a question of accompanying the emerging student. It is known that the first year of study is too often synonymous with failure, with 60% of students not passing the first year. To improve this situation, the transition between secondary and higher education is essential – you understand that, minister. The introduction of the two weeks of orientation in the final class and the intervention of student ambassadors will provide students with better information on graduate studies and student life. The removal of the post-bac admission device – APB – also helps to end the unfairness of the draw. The new platform, to which an important appropriation is allocated, will be fairer and more transparent. Set up as soon as next fall, it responds to an urgent need. Finally, we must note the considerable effort devoted to improving the living conditions of our students, with the attachment to the general system of social security and the abolition of the corresponding contribution, as well as with the massive investment planned for the provision of care, culture, sport and housing. This is an ambitious and fair first step. As far as the transformation of training is concerned, it must be remembered that the aim of studies is to find a job and that, in order for students to achieve this with a good background, it is necessary to support the best possible quality of training. The autonomy of universities must thus be confirmed. Today, the recruitment or opening of a master's degree, for example, is impossible without the approval of the ministry: greater flexibility would allow universities to take into account their local environment and better arm themselves in the face of competition. The imbalance between tensioned and neglected courses can be solved by informing students of the precise content of the courses envisaged and their opportunities. Finally, it is essential to encourage alternation, a superb qualification tool. This will be done first of all by helping young people find their business, because many of them still have to, regrettably, abandon their project because of the lack of an employer. This will be followed by assisting companies with the establishment of the single window for the registration of contracts and applications for aid, the dematerialisation of the administrative procedure, the total allocation of the apprenticeship fee to its financing and the valorisation of the tutorship. A pragmatic, simpler and more readable training for all actors – students, professors and companies – will, we are sure, guarantee success. Finally, it is a question of valuing the world of research, the last stage of university life. To highlight "made in France" research, we must first of all value the status of French researchers, who are the showcase of our expertise throughout the world. It is therefore essential to accompany them so that they can compete internationally. The interaction between the professional world and the doctoral world must then be encouraged. In this respect, the contract for an industrial agreement for training through research – CIFRE – created in 1981 and during post-bac alternation, is an insufficiently exploited professional perspective. The doctoral contract, concluded between the student-researcher and the university, must also be favoured, as it financially supports the researcher in his project. Finally, we must not neglect the living conditions of researchers, who are exposed to precariousness and, sometimes, isolation. Like the vigilance of our young people entering the academic world, we must also pay attention to the well-being of our researchers. It is under these conditions that we will succeed. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Madam Minister, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes the increase in the appropriations for this mission "Research and higher education", because the first efforts presented seem to us to be fair and balanced in order to treat a system which is now ill and whose potential needs only to be revealed. That is why we will vote for these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u4	Mr Patrick Hetzel, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction, I would like to stress that it would be more necessary than ever to assert the autonomy of universities. In 2007, Nicolas Sarkozy's government decided to go this way by passing the law of autonomy on the freedoms and responsibilities of universities and by creating a tremendous momentum around higher education and research. Unfortunately, the socialist government has gone in the opposite direction. For universities to be truly self-reliant, they must be empowered to raise funds, and higher education and research must be given real priority, which, unfortunately, is not the case, contrary to the Government's assertions. The budgetary guidelines of the 2018 Finance Bill show that there is, Madam Minister, a gap between your speeches and your actions – but I will no longer come back here on items that I have already developed extensively during your hearing in an enlarged committee two weeks ago. I would just like to remind you that, where you are announcing a cumulative increase in the budget for higher education of EUR 1 billion over five years, Nicolas Sarkozy, during his quinquennium, raised this budget from EUR 10 billion to EUR 15 billion, a cumulative increase of EUR 15 billion over five years, that is to say 15 times more than what you are doing. It is worth noting and the former Director-General of Higher Education that I am able to see that the momentum that had been set in motion in his time was quite significant. Madam Minister, I am telling you quite frankly: your announcements are really in trompe l'oeil. Indeed, a number of important issues are not addressed at all – not to say they are overlooked – and these announcements may even sometimes amplify some of them. Thus, announcing the end of the draw by lot is a good thing, but how, in fact, will be managed the choice of bachelors for the lines under tension that have a limited number of places? How will the Prime Minister's statement – to which I have obviously paid particular attention – be operationalised in concrete terms that if a sector has fewer places than candidates, "priority will be given" to young people "who have the most coherent course, motivation and project with the chosen training"? How are you going to do that? In addition, until now, through Admission post-bac, the bachelors have made vows – up to twenty-four – in descending order of importance. While it is obvious that this system had become more perfectable because of the increasing pressure on selective and small-scale sectors, the aim of the system was, as far as possible, to maximize the satisfaction of the bachelor's choice by trying to satisfy his best-ranked wish. What happens to this issue in the new system, which will limit the number of vows to ten, which will no longer be prioritized at all? I fear that this new system will be even more defective than the current one. Similarly, you remain in the middle of the ford in terms of access to the university system as a whole. In fact, the energized sectors represent only a small part of the student population. You certainly give the universities the opportunity to give their opinions on the applications, but you indicate that, even if the opinion is very reserved or even negative, the bachelor can nevertheless register, against the opinion expressed, in the field in question. In short, you are asking for an opinion from academics, but this opinion will be purely advisory. This is very contradictory and, above all, you have very little to do with the views of universities and academics, showing that you do not really trust them and that, alas, you reject real autonomy. What a shame! Ahead of the question of university entry also arises, and above all, the question of information and guidance for high school students. On this point too, the announcements are disappointing. Indeed, the professional branches have worked hard to develop information and training tools. It is therefore regrettable that the education system is, for the time being, on its own. However, it is necessary to open it to actors outside national education and to take account of employers' expectations. Minister, your announcements are a missed opportunity for the Government, because our students and higher education deserve better than a trompe-l'oeil communication plan. For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote against your budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u6	Mrs Pau Langevin has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for higher education and research that we are considering today seems to me to be one of the most important, because it concerns the future that we are preparing for our youth, and therefore for our country. As Hannah Arendt said, all the difficulty of education is to love our young people enough not to give up on themselves or take away their chances of doing something new, and to prepare them to renew a common world, that is to say, to prepare them for something we do not yet know and cannot foresee. The New Left Group does not question your intentions and recognises that the appropriations for research and higher education are on the rise, but when we look closely at them, we see that the bulk of the increases are the result of measures voted or commitments made earlier. Taking into account population growth, the Government expects an additional 28,000 students between 2017 and 2018, or 350,000 students by 2025. However, the planned envelope clearly does not correspond to the increase in student demography and is not sufficient for the operation of the institutions. On the other hand, there is a lack of funding to offset the CSG increase for public servants. We believe that this budget is not enough to meet the challenges of the development of higher education in our country and to improve the living and study conditions of students, even though it is a priority objective for the President of the Republic. We do not see the budgetary translation of the Student Plan, which was recently presented to the press and which has an allocation of EUR 1 billion for the quinquennium, including an additional EUR 500 million to accompany the reform. Logically, some of the appropriations are not included in your budget, but we should at least find a start. On access to university, which has become problematic due to the influx of young people, the abolition of the drawing of lots, an unsatisfactory system practiced for a long time in many universities, suits us. But is the gradual introduction of student scholarship quotas in each structure sufficient to prevent the most well-known universities from choosing the best candidates? We share your priority of reducing failure in the first year of licensing, and, in your words, "from superior for all to success for everyone." Only 27% of students graduate in three years and 39% in four years, while the remaining 61% drop out or reorientate. This failure rate is even higher for technological or professional bachelors, who are only 7% and 2% respectively to validate their license in three years. However, we do not find in the budget the answer to the main cause of congestion in universities, which we know well: the bachelors general are looking for a university institute of technology – IUT – a framework which they consider to be non-licensed; In doing so, they take the place of their fellow-disciples of technological or professional paths. For example, 116,000 students are enrolled in IUT, or 4.47% of students, while there have been 857,000 applications. There should therefore be a very significant increase in the number of places offered. Beyond the blurring of the distribution of places, it is the ceiling itself that seems to us to be very underestimated in terms of forecasts and needs. It is time to respond effectively to this situation. The question that arises for France is whether its research will be able to maintain its level or whether it will fail. The research budget has been maintained for ten years in France, while in Germany it has increased by 75%. This year again, this budget is stagnating. If one of the Government's priorities is innovation, what we are designing, investments in research are needed, in order to generate the wealth, successes and Nobel Prizes of tomorrow. Finally, the issue of careers is a priority, because the precariousness and lack of prospects make our PhD students run away. In particular, the rate of the research tax credit for companies hiring doctors should be increased and the law of 22 July 2013 on higher education and research, which requires the reservation of places for doctoral students in competitions, should be applied. In other words, your budget will not allow enough development of what our country needs, namely the scientific potential of today and tomorrow. It does not seem to us to meet the needs. So, to our regret, our group will not be able to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u8	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Fugit, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u9	The budget presented to us today has major objectives: to support the transformation of higher education institutions and to strengthen the resources for research and students. The Mission's appropriations amount to €27.4 billion and increase by 2.6% compared to last year, or an additional €700 million: this effort must be underlined. Within this mission, the 150 "Superior Training and University Research" programme is allocated a budget of 13.4 billion euros, up 1.2% from 2017, or an additional 194 million euros. These credits will support, among other things, the implementation of the success contract and a new approach to the orientation proposed to each student. The success contract and the orientation are two main axes of the Student Plan, which you presented last week after a great consultation of three months. I would like to highlight the method chosen, as it has brought together and brought together more than 250 actors in school and higher education. The Student Plan aims to transform higher education so that the personalization of each student's career path becomes the rule, not the exception. The implementation of the success contract, the renovation of the training offer and the development of new pedagogical approaches will, together with other measures, make this transformation possible. The new approach to guidance will allow every high school student to be included in a real career guidance approach chosen, informed and co-built, with guidance representing, let us not forget, the first factor of success of any training course. In short, the proposed plan, the measures chosen and the means mobilised reflect a willingness that we share, that of proposing at all levels and at all times an accompanying approach, which constitutes active and effective assistance for every young person in our country. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Minister, what kind of expenditure do you envisage in the higher education component? We would also like to know your priorities for the deployment schedule.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u10	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u11	I thank you, Mr. Member, for this question, which allows me to return to the additional billion euros that the Government wishes to devote exclusively to the implementation of the Student Plan. In addition to EUR 194 million for the higher education budget – which corresponds to EUR 234 million in payment appropriations if the freeze is taken into account – we would like to add EUR 500 million in budget over the next five years and EUR 450 million specifically for the creation of new university courses, also during the five-year period and in the form of investments under the Grand Investment Plan. We will need to see the first realization of the 500 million euros allocated in budgetary appropriations as of the beginning of 2018, and I will have the opportunity to present to you the first implementation in a few moments. We assessed an additional need of €20 million for the last third of the year; In this envelope, EUR 15 million will be dedicated to my ministry. That is why, after the amendments that you adopted during the review of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission and before those that you will adopt, I hope, to the missions "Research and Higher Education" and "School Education", we will have released an additional €20 million to welcome and support the success of the 2018 bachelors. The transformation of the licence will benefit from 450 million euros from the Grand Investment Plan, and 19 institutions will benefit from this from 2018, amounting to 13 million euros in payment credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u12	I call the appropriations of the mission "Research and higher education", entered in state B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1138.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u13	As I have just announced, the Government has wished to give an immediate budget translation to the announcements made on 30 October during the presentation of the Student Plan. This plan will eliminate the drawing of lots and transform our model of orientation, reception and accompaniment, especially for the undergraduate degree. It will also support the standard of living of students, as we give them 100 million euros of purchasing power as of 2018, and will allow them to take care of their health and their housing. The aim of this amendment is therefore to include funding for the undergraduate reform, which will enter into force from the start of 2018, in the 2018 Finance Act. In the framework of the Student Plan, for which 500 million euros have been added, we wish to release, from this PLF for 2018, 15.48 million euros within the scope of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, in order to create additional places from the start of 2018. In total, with the missions "Sport, youth and associative life" and "School education", €20 million will be allocated, corresponding to the funding needs of a third of the year; This is the first step in the effort, of almost 80 million euros for the academic year 2018-2019, which will of course continue, as the commitment has been made, throughout the quinquennium, to reach 500 million euros. In the general budgetary situation, this important financial commitment of the State is a material proof of the importance that the Government attaches to our students, to their future and to their success. This is the beginning of a long-term investment effort. For all these reasons, on behalf of the Government, I propose that you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u14	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on Amendment No. 1138.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u15	This is a very favourable opinion, since this amendment is, as has been said, the first achievement of the Student Plan announced only a few days ago. This net increase of EUR 15.4 million is in addition to the EUR 194 million and the lower reserve rate, which provides an additional EUR 40 million. The increase in the appropriations for this 150 programme amounts to around EUR 250 million, which is a very significant effort; This will make it possible to fluidise the courses and enrich the undergraduate courses, especially those in tension.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u16	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for the presentation of the amendment. The question of means is obviously central, but I am surprised that the summary statement does not give any indication as to how they will be distributed. This is an essential element. Will you proceed by powdering or according to criteria, and in this case, what will they be?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u18	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u19	Mr. Hetzel, this additional effort is equivalent to the creation of 446 posts, which are needed for voltage and technological training, as the Government has committed itself to doing. Let me tell you – which in no way casts doubt on all the respect I owe you – that my vision of a former university president comparing this government's actions with those of the previous two has as much value as yours. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] As for the trial that you have made me reject autonomy, what do you know about the pride of an autonomous university, benefiting from an initiative of excellence – IDEX – choosing to welcome, in all their diversity, all undergraduate students?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u20	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the clarifications that not everyone had had the opportunity to hear, since you had given them in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. Colleagues, you can see that the Government is taking on its responsibilities: he has barely announced a Student Plan that he will increase the funds needed to implement it by the start of 2018. When we talk about the sincere budget and the assumption of responsibility by the Government, these are not words in the air, as can be seen from the examination of the appropriations for this mission. We must therefore vote for this amendment, which is not nothing since it represents more than 20 million euros for our students and for the functioning of our universities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u22	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u23	I was asking you this morning, minister, what means would you have to implement this legislation. I don't know if that will be enough, but in any case, we have an answer and I wanted to thank you for it – we also know what's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u24	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 347.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u25	The intention of the founding fathers of the CNRS was to entrust to a structure composed of elected representatives the evaluation of research programmes and the allocation of research funds in accordance with the pluralism of opinions. The National Research Agency, ANR, established in 2005, has regained the authority to allocate funds, entrusted to selection committees no longer elected but appointed. Would not elected officials be competent to deal with budgetary matters? It is either considered that before the creation of the NRA the CNRS and the other operators were doing their job poorly, or it is considered that the CNRS made its major discoveries before 2005 and that an additional administrative level such as the NRA is not really useful. At the financial level, adding an administrative level has a cost in itself. We believe that, in a tight budgetary context, these appropriations would be more useful by directly financing research. In an enlarged committee, the Special Rapporteur justified the rejection of this amendment by the increase in the budget of the research organisations provided for in this finance bill, but this increase of 0.9% only allows for the financing of wage measures, such as the protocol "Professional paths, careers and remuneration" – PPCR – and not the needs of the laboratories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u26	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on Amendment No. 347?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u27	The purpose of this amendment is to transfer the entire increase in RNA appropriations to the CNRS. My view, which I believe is shared by the Government, is that it is not appropriate to fuel this sterile opposition between, on the one hand, recurrent research funding and, on the other, call-for-project funding. No, the NRA is not an administrative level. It finances research, selects projects and, above all, through its calls for projects, leads a real strategy by calling on researchers of excellence to work on scientific and societal challenges. The intervention of the NRA is useful in that it devotes projects of excellence. Our ambition is not to force it by too low selection rates. This EUR 133 million budget increase is a real step forward. It is also necessary, as the selection rates have increased from 10 to 12 per cent. They will go back mechanically as a result of this budget increase to over 20%. I would like to point out that the ambition of the majority remains intact with regard to the funding of research in general. It is essential to maintain significant budgets for national research organizations: that is what we are doing and will continue to do. It is also important to increase the precipit, or overhead, of the NRA so that the funding from the calls for projects actually covers the full costs that they generate and can thus supplement the budgets of the research organisations. My opinion is therefore unfavourable on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u28	Mr Philippe Berta, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u29	I have a little thought for my colleagues from the Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale – INSERM –, the Institut de recherche pour le développement – IRD –, the Centre de coopération internationale en recherche agronomique pour le développement – CIRAD –, the Institut français de recherche pour l'exploitation de la mer – IFREMER – and the Institut national de la recherche agronomique – INRA – who could also need more funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u30	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u31	Your amendment, Madam Member, proposes to create a new program that brings together the appropriations of the CNRS and the ANR. This would have the effect of removing all of the ANR's resources and allocating them to the CNRS alone. As stated in the Organic Law on Finance Laws – LOLF – a programme is intended to consolidate appropriations for the implementation of a public policy. The CNRS is not intended to carry all the resources dedicated to state-funded public research on its own and therefore cannot justify a dedicated programme on its own. For these reasons, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u32	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 988.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u33	The question that arises for France is whether its research will be able to maintain its level or whether it will fail. The research budget has been maintained for ten years in France, while in Germany it has increased by 75%. The annual renewal of state grant funding for research organizations over the past 10 years has led to an erosion of room for manoeuvre and a decrease in investment. The current situation raises the question of maintaining French public research in international competition. If a drop-out were to take place, this would result in an inability to enter into major new projects. Another problem for public research organisations and operators is the lack of multi-annual visibility. Cross-cutting budget management is detrimental to the proper functioning and management of multi-year research projects. Defined as a priority for the quinquennium by the President of the Republic, research requires ambitious multi-year programming over three years. As a result of a contract with the organisations and operators, the aim of the contract would be to give visibility in order to ensure the recruitment of researchers, engineers and technicians and to reduce the precariousness of researchers and agents; ensure the means of operation, equipment and investment necessary for the operation of research units and for basic research. This call amendment proposes multi-annual programming of public research resources, abundant in Action 01 of Programme 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research" of EUR 100 million and reducing Action 03 of Programme 191 "Dual Research" by EUR 100 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u34	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u35	I understand that this amendment is not intended to be adopted, but to question the Government on its multi-year research strategy. I would like to point out that the appropriations of the Interministerial Mission for Research and Higher Education – MIRES – are increasing by 700 million in this PLF, of which 500 million are for research and 200 million for higher education. As a result, total appropriations will reach €27.6 billion in 2018. There is already multi-year programming over three years, as we have already expected it to reach 27.86 billion in 2019 and 28 billion in 2020, an increase of 1.3 billion over three years. For 2018, let me remind you, we are increasing the funding of the ANR's calls for projects by €133 million, the resources of the laboratories to give researchers the material means to work effectively by €25 million and the resources of the research organisations by €87 million. These resources will be complemented by the major five-year investment plan, which will also provide EUR 2.4 billion in multi-annual programming. In view of these elements, I can tell you that there is indeed a multi-annual strategy for research in all its forms, be it academic, public, private, partnership, well beyond the appropriations set out in your appeal amendment. My opinion will therefore be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u36	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u37	As stated in his summary statement, this is an appeal amendment. You want more long-term visibility on the funding of research in a multi-year framework. I largely share your conception of contracting. I will therefore try to give you some elements of multi-annual framing, as I did in the enlarged committee. The five-year trajectory of the research budget foresees a significant increase in resources devoted to public research, with an increase of almost 9% in appropriations for programmes 172 and 193 by 2022. It thus gives all research organisations a readability of the funds available to them in the next five years. On the other hand, €6 billion of the major investment plan will be mobilised for research and innovation throughout the quinquennium. Beyond this financial trajectory, perhaps a little abstract and somewhat normative, I took a number of decisions last spring in order to anchor a multi-annual dynamic in the financing of research: a steady increase of EUR 32.7 million per year in the means of intervention of the ANR with the payment appropriations necessary to ensure the cash flow of the institution; means for continued research organisations including coverage at the right level of public service measures affecting the payroll; financing for the very large research infrastructures and international scientific organisations, OSI, budgeted to the extent of their need, i.e. an increase of 26% and the absorption of ESA's debt over three years. Finally, with regard to the financing of your proposal, it is essential to clarify some elements concerning the 191 programme. This programme will receive €180 million in funding for 2018. It had been reduced by EUR 12 million in 2015. If such a reduction were to continue, it would have serious consequences for dual research, as this programme finances both civilian and military applications with the aim of maximizing the civilian benefits of defence research and, conversely, of providing defence with the benefits of civil research advances. CNES and ECA are the beneficiaries of these funds. This would make it difficult to defend the principle of multi-annual programming by cutting EUR 100 million from such a sensitive programme, even if you were forced to do so by the LOLF rules. In the immediate future, I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u38	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u39	In light of the clarifications made by the Minister, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u40	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 349.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u41	To return to the ANR, you will have understood that the competition between laboratories and researchers is not an economic model that suits us. The aim of this amendment is to create within this mission a new programme entitled "Partnership research for the ecological transition". We start from this observation: 130 million euros are allocated to the French Petroleum Institute Energies nouvelles against only 1.5 million euros to the Agence nationale de sécurité santé de l'alimentaire, de l'environnement et du travail, l'ANSES. At a time when the challenges of climate change are forcing us to change our production and consumption patterns, continuing to fund the search for "responsible hydrocarbons" as claimed by IFP Energies nouvelles, in partnership with Total, goes against our commitments. The Paris Agreement, the Government's carbon-neutral objectives and the recently passed law for the cessation of oil exploitation in France remind us of this. We must reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and invest, in particular, in the development of research related to sustainable development and transport. You have told me, Madam Special Rapporteur, that it is not appropriate to reconsider the level of appropriations allocated to IFP. On the contrary, I believe that it is more urgent than ever to take our country on the path of ecological fork. What is responsible is not to finance "clean" hydrocarbons – it is an oxymore – but to gradually and rationally exit carbon energies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u42	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u43	The French Petroleum Institute Energies nouvelles is actively contributing to the reflection on the modalities of the transition to a decarbonized world. This transition? We want it as much as you do? But we know that there is a long way to go. Your amendment involves ten times the appropriations of ANSES and the other partners you are quoting, which seems excessive to us in view of budgetary requests that neither the Special Rapporteurs nor the Government, I believe, have received. Of course, the IFP Energies nouvelles cooperates with Total on some projects, but this does not mean that it is a research centre co-financed by a company, even if it is based on the concrete reality of the industrialists using these techniques. I would also point out that the French Petroleum Institute is working to reduce the environmental footprint of exploration, production and refining activities through the development of processes for the transformation of hydrocarbons into fuels that comply with environmental specifications – for example, by reducing the sulphur content. It also helps develop techniques for optimizing water resource management at refining and extraction sites. It also enables the development of optimized catalysts for reducing energy consumption. At the European level, as part of the Horizon 2020 project, IFPEN has managed to achieve fourteen projects – with a 48% success rate – on autonomous transport, biofuels, geosciences or nanotechnologies, all of which show that this institute – whose name includes not only oil, but also new energies – is making a full contribution to the achievement of the energy transition, which we all call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u44	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u45	Technically, the 190 programme is already intended to finance partnership research for the ecological transition. Therefore, the creation of a new programme amputating the latter from some of its actions would undermine overall coherence. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that 75% of IFPEN's research funds are dedicated to the development of new energy technologies – renewable energy, energy saving – with the aim of reducing the environmental impact of the energy sector. For example, I would point out that, recently, the float and anchor solution for offshore wind turbines was developed in part by IFPEN and was selected as part of a call for projects by the Environment and Energy Management Agency, ADEME. IFPEN is also engaged in programmes to transform biomass into fuels. Finally, I would like to point out that the vocation of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation is to support all forms of research. In these circumstances, you will have understood, Madam Member, the Government's opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u46	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u47	It would be good if our Minister of Research, Higher Education and Innovation gave some guidance to organizations such as IFPEN. The energy transition is taking place – you mentioned it – and it is important, but you should encourage them to also accompany the ecological transition of the economy. I am a Member of Parliament for Le Havre, where there is a refinery: what about tomorrow, in the energy transition? These bodies could be mandated to work with the various actors, the industrialists, so that the large factories, the large economic establishments do not end up overnight obsolete, empty. We need to think now about the use of their know-how in order to accompany the ecological transition of the economy, in addition to the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u48	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u49	I understand that a tenfold increase in appropriations would be too large, but that is precisely where France is in deep disagreement with you. I had the opportunity to recall that France has no offshore wind turbines. So, yes, we think we need to deploy significant resources! The financing of IFPEN, which is almost unique in France, comes for half from Total: Is not Total interested in preserving hydrocarbons? You say that the environmental impacts of oil extraction must be reduced, but the issue is not even a question – we have passed a law that must put an end to it. The question is, the energy transition will require putting money on the table! As planning has taken place to develop nuclear power, we now need to organize ecological planning, much more than urgent, which requires money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u50	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u51	I would point out that your amendment does not provide for a tenfold increase in the financing of offshore wind turbines, Mrs Rubin. You mentioned ANSES.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u52	I was talking in general.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u53	In general, you know that there is a climate plan, that we are very committed and that we invite all researchers from around the world to come and work in France on these issues. From a slightly more historical perspective, I would like to point out that IFPEN is itself an organization in transition, as we are reducing its allocation by 4 million in 2018 and that, for the eleventh year in a row, it is declining – its budget has decreased by 25% in eleven years. The transition is at work. We share with you the objective of achieving a carbon-free economy, because, if our commitment to COP 21 is complete, the commitment to decarbonisation of the economy is equally so. My opinion remains unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u54	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 989.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u55	Scientific culture accompanies science and extends it to society. It is one of the dimensions of the transfer of research, a transfer which is not technological but immaterial, aimed at the intelligence and development of men and women and at the balance of society, a transfer which concerns specific operators as well as all research operators. The new governance of the scientific, technical and industrial culture – CSTI – gives the regions a central role of animating and coordinating the network of actors in their territory, taking the initiative of projects and providing financial support for actions in this field. Decentralised national appropriations abound these regional financings, but only to the tune of 4.7 million, with the State retaining significant resources, since it invests around 250 million euros each year in the CSTI, mainly through subsidies for public service charges paid to its operators. In order to promote the taste of science and technology among young people, and to close the gap between the evolution of science and technology and the ability of citizens to understand it in order to master it, it is necessary to give new impetus to the development of partnership policies – state, local authorities, associations – in favour of scientific, technical and industrial culture. The National Council for Scientific, Technological and Industrial Culture, established by the Ministers responsible for Culture and Research in 2016 and chaired by Dominique Gillot, presented last spring the national strategy of the CSTI. The ambition it sets requires, however, an investment in excess of the current resources devoted to the ITSC, which cannot be ensured by the regions alone. That is why we are proposing to take up the proposal of the National Council to increase the intervention appropriations by EUR 100 million in five years, i.e. by an additional EUR 20 million for 2018. The amendment proposes to increase the appropriations for action 03, "Scientific and technical culture", of programme 186, "Cultural research and scientific culture", by EUR 10 million, and to reduce the appropriations for action 03, "Dual research in the aerospace field" of programme 191, "Dual research".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u56	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u57	We fully share your commitment to the dissemination of scientific and technical culture, but, in a constrained budgetary context, we have chosen to give priority to the funding of research organizations and laboratories. However, I would like to point out to you that, elected from the Saclay plateau, I participate in many events – such as TEDxSaclay or the Fête de la science – organized and funded by these same research organisations and academic centres. I would also like to reassure you that we are maintaining 112 million on action 03 of the 186 programme for the dissemination of scientific and technical culture, but the 191 programme, which concerns dual research, cannot be used as you would like, since its funds are now essential for space research and are largely devoted to it. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u58	Mr Pierre Henriet, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u59	By this amendment, you want to reduce the funds allocated to dual research to strengthen those who are in the field of scientific culture. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, I understand his spirit: in today's world, scientific culture must be a priority. Nevertheless, the success of the CSTI is based in the immediate future on an effort to rationalize governance more than on an increase in resources. The State now has only a strategist role in the field of scientific culture, and it is above all the appropriations of the regions that should be increased. In any event, it is not appropriate to reduce the appropriations allocated to dual research. In addition, ITSC appropriations are charged indirectly to other appropriations, as indicated in our report for opinion. So it would only be a rise in the façade. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u61	The Government is fully aware of the importance of disseminating scientific and technological culture in society. Similarly, the regions are heavily involved in the financing of this policy of collective intellectual building. The total amount paid by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation for the purpose of scientific culture is not limited to the more than EUR 110 million entered in the PLF for 2018. The sixteen research organisations under my Ministry and all universities participate in the dissemination of scientific and technological culture, whether it be by financing them – for the largest organizations, devoting between 1 and 2 million a year – or, for researchers and teachers-researchers, as well as all the staff of research and higher education institutions, giving their time to convey this taste of science and technology. Reducing the budget for dual research means, as I told you earlier, reducing the budget of the CNES, one of the main players in the dissemination of scientific and technological culture, especially through the images of space, which is widely used to give children and young people the taste of science – we have seen this again by following Thomas Pesquet. Similarly, much of the research work of the Office of the Commissioner for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energies – for example in the field of health, regenerative medicine – also contributes to the attractiveness of the scientific and technological fields. For all these reasons, the Government's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u62	I call Mr Philippe Berta, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No 979.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u63	We will stay a little in the same register but this time being much more modest. The reconciliation of the French with science is more relevant than ever as obscurantism, in its various forms, is gaining ground. In this register, the PISA surveys follow and are similar: the scientific culture of the French only earns them a twenty-seventh place in the OECD countries, far from the English and German for example. The Feast of Science, despite a success renewed for years, cannot hide this reality. Moreover, our entry into the knowledge-based economy on the one hand requires us to start to regain the lost ground by prioritizing scientific culture with a dual objective: to increase the level of scientific culture of our fellow citizens, thus making them more able to participate in the major societal debates that are increasingly required of us on a regular basis: genetically modified viruses – VGM – or other genetically modified organisms – GMO –, cloning, medically assisted reproduction, embryonic stem cells, CRISPR-Cas9, climate, vaccination; give the taste of science and technology to our youth – a sector where, overall, our amphitheatres empty themselves to the advantage of overloaded fields whose opportunities are much more uncertain. Moreover, it is these same fields that, by training engineering assistants, engineers and researchers, will create the wealth from which a country operates. Our request, I am aware, remains at this stage of the order of the symbol, but this symbol of not lowering the endowment of scientific culture seems to us to be among the most important.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u64	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u65	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u66	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u67	Mr President, your amendment works on a mechanism quite similar to that of the previous amendment and can also move closer to the following amendment. I am fully prepared to reflect with the National Assembly on the subject of scientific and technological culture, especially since this is one of the themes of the work of our draftsman for the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs. We could therefore deal with this issue. To support the CSTI commitment, this time you are proposing to raise funding not from dual research, but from space research. As I explained earlier, space research is a national flagship, allowing us to be not only a European leader in the sector, but also one of the world's major space powers. Space programmes generate a very wide audience in public opinion and thus participate, in fact, in the dissemination of scientific culture. For all these reasons, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment; If not, the Government shall issue an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u68	On Amendment No 348, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Berta, are you withdrawing your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u69	No, I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u70	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 348.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u71	We have asked for a public vote because this amendment deals with an extremely important issue; I hope I can convince you. During the presidential campaign, Emmanuel Macron announced the creation of a full ministry for the equality of men and women: this was not done. But if the 2018 budget remains as it stands, it will be necessary to assume a violent attack on structures responsible for producing scientific data on gender social relations. Indeed, this budget cancels 8000 euros of public grants for the MAGE scientific research network – the labour market and gender. This amendment therefore proposes to restore them. The network, established in 1995, pioneered gender studies at the CNRS and even became a European grouping from 2003 onwards and an international network in 2011, with correspondents and activities throughout the continent. Not only does the network run an exciting in-house activity, but it provides a large number of valuable publications and books of interesting international comparisons. For example, it publishes the journal Travail, genre et sociétés; We owe him many studies on the gendered nature of the labour market and employment. In 20 years of existence and public subsidies, no government had considered it appropriate to get rid of this scientific network. We insist on abolishing these public subsidies because this will pose three serious problems. First of all, this contradicts all the commitments announced in favour of equality between women and men; However, I know that this is a matter for the majority, which has risen several times to agree on this issue. Then, at a time when speech is freed from sexism, what legitimacy is there to torpedo research on gender relations? Such an attack also jeopardizes government action and the rights of the opposition: the executive, as parliamentarians as well as the whole community and citizen world will be deprived of valuable information and analysis from which public policies can be judged and adjusted. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, the announcement was retroactive to the 2017 grant; The purpose of this financial addition to the Finance Bill is to ensure that the original payment is made.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u72	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u73	If you'll allow me, I'm going to make a sense of humor on a very serious subject. In view of our governmental commitments to gender equality, there is no question of getting rid of this network: it produces interesting and very useful work for the gender issue to emerge from the circles initiated and for the debate to integrate the subjects of the world of work. I can make a commitment to you, ladies and gentlemen: I will write a letter to the director of the CNRS so that, of its 2,620 billion euros of funds, he will find 8000 euros to finance, as you propose here by amendment, the MAGE network. These 8000 euros exist at the CNRS: we will do our best to ensure that they are financed. In addition, this amendment would create a new budgetary programme, at a time of simplicity, readability and coherence: my opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u74	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u75	The Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation devotes significant resources – directly within the Ministry and not through its research organisations – to addressing the issue of equality between women and men. For example, in 2017, 74500 euros of specific programmes supported the national survey Violence and Gender Reports, known as VIRAGE, of INED – National Institute for Demographic Studies – for an amount of 29500 euros; to participate in the scientific symposium on gender-based and sexual violence, to be held on 4 December, amounting to 17000 euros; or finally to support associations of gender studies, to the tune of 28000 euros. Since 2012, the CNRS has been authorized, on an exceptional basis, to carry out recruitments based on gender studies, in order to further increase the potential of the 100 laboratories working on this subject. Within the €25 million envelope, which will provide basic funding for laboratories, I have hoped that almost €5 million will be dedicated to the financing of research in the humanities and social sciences, which contains all or almost all of the research on gender studies. In view of the very recent developments and the ongoing struggle to assert real equality between women and men, I am confident that many CNRS research programmes will address these important issues and will be funded through the action of this government. In these circumstances, I propose that you withdraw your amendment; Otherwise, the Government's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u76	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u77	I would stress this amendment because, in view of the issues before us and the need for research on equality between men and women, the overall envelope you have mentioned seems derisory. This is 8000 euros for a journal, for a network, for extremely valuable sociological, scientific and historical research on gender equality. You say that the CNRS will find the money in its envelope: but, if we have tabled this amendment and asked for a public vote, it is that we want to obtain the guarantee that these 8000 euros, decisive for the work of this review and this network, will be well-conceived and that there will be no loss of profits for those and for those – some men indeed work in the MAGE – who are involved in this sector. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We ask for a dangling guarantee, so that the CNRS does not leave the decision to disaggregate the amounts as it wishes in a constrained envelope. That is why we have asked for a public vote. For 8000 euros, I appeal to the conscience of each Member, in order to ensure this fundamental research work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u78	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u79	Perhaps I have not been clear enough: on the ministry's budget – not the one devoted to research – I have released a little over 74,000 euros this year to help programs. I therefore undertake to find the 8000 euros of the programme you indicate. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Let us be serious: we are not going to create a budget program in the 2018 Finance Bill for 8000 euros. But you have my commitment: I will finance up to 8000 euros; That is why I suggested that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the Government's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u80	Mrs Panot, is your amendment retained or withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u81	I maintain it so that Mr Lecoq can speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u82	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u83	There is a contradiction between the rapporteur's position and that of the minister. The rapporteur tells us that money will be sought from the CNRS budget, while the minister tells us that it will be taken directly from her budget. It suits me very well: your answer is the one that had to be given. It just seems to me that this is taken directly on the department's lines and not on the CNRS budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u84	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u85	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I take note of the minister's oral commitment and will communicate it to the MAGE network that alerted us. In this case, we can withdraw the amendment and we will be extremely careful to ensure that this promise is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u86	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Rule 57. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1342, second amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u87	The purpose of this amendment is to extend the specialisation principle for higher education institutions. To date, public institutions of higher education are not competent for the maintenance and management of real property owned or made available to them by the State. They are also not competent to value these assets; However, a very large part of the university premises are not occupied for a significant period of the year. By extending the speciality principle, the aim is therefore to simplify, in order to allow institutions to best value their real estate assets, whether these assets are part of the State's own property, the property of the institutions or the devolved property. Depending on these three types of ownership, the rules that apply are indeed different: it is therefore a matter of simplifying these rules. That is why the Government is asking you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u89	Favourable opinion, since two objectives are pursued by this amendment. The first objective is to simplify the schemes applicable to the valuation of immovable property available to public higher education institutions, bringing them together under one article of the General Code of Public Property. Second objective: to facilitate the release of income dedicated to the financing of the heritage made available to them, by explicitly mentioning the management and exploitation of this heritage in the missions of the higher education institution and by explicitly providing for the possibility of entrusting this activity to a specialized service. Simplicity, leverage to generate revenue: favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u90	Mr Lioger, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u91	I'm intervening in my personal capacity. I congratulate you, Madam Minister, on this amendment: this provision is a very good thing. You know my interest in the heritage of universities, I've already had the opportunity to discuss it with you. I suppose you too, Mr Hetzel, welcome this amendment, which is in line with the autonomy of the universities and the Pecress Act, which you mentioned earlier. One wonders why a provision of this nature has not been adopted in the five years you were in government. I would point out that the Conference of University Presidents had been very heavily involved in the preparation of the Pécresse law, already at the time when Mr Goulard was Minister Delegate for Higher Education and Research: as you know, she had started working there almost two years before its adoption. In any case, this law receives the consent of the CPU and is the subject of a fairly broad consensus, in a sort of ecumenical, in the academic community. Madam Minister, I would like to make the presidents of universities aware of the need to work well with the town planning services of the municipalities and intercommunalities in which their institutions are located. National representation also had a role to play in that regard. It is absolutely essential for a community to have an urban planning plan, and this new stage in the devolution of heritage to universities may allow – I say as a former town planning assistant – to do work on land, including the release of land, which is also a concern of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u92	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u93	Thank you, Mr. Lioger, for reminding you that the law on the freedoms and responsibilities of universities included a part concerning the devolution of heritage. You are right: the Government's amendment will remove one of the limits in this area and allow universities to manage their real estate assets more effectively. So once it is not customary, it is clearly in the right direction, and the Republican Group will vote for it. I hope that the Government will be able to go a little further on the issue of property management, which we also referred to in the enlarged committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u94	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u95	This amendment surprises us a little, on the one hand, because it comes a little late, on the other hand, because the summary statement refers to the fact that universities will be able to earn income from reportable assets, which seems to us to be out of proportion to the image we have of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u96	All foundations do it! The Institut Pasteur too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u97	We are therefore very bored at the idea of voting for this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u98	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u99	In the absence of the provision we propose, universities are unable, for example, to rent their amphitheatres during the summer. They can only charge the household and the consumption of fluids, otherwise they would be unlawful, as they would engage in unfair competition. This will allow them to register in a traditional rental system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u100	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1035.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u101	Since its creation by Article 96 of the Law of 29 December 2010 on Amending Finance for 2010, the Institute of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety, IRSN, has benefited from an annual contribution due from the operators of the basic nuclear facilities – INB. This tax is collected by the public accountant of the IRSN, in accordance with its status as a public institution, and constitutes one of its main resources. However, as the legislation currently stands, the arrangements for the collection of the INB tax and the provisions relating to the dispute concerning it differ from the usual rules applicable to operators under ordinary law, issued by the Decree of 7 November 2012. There is therefore doubt as to the compatibility of the arrangements for the collection of this contribution by the IRSN with the arrangements in force for budgetary and accounting management. The purpose of this amendment is to remove this doubt by clarifying the legal basis for the IRSN to receive this contribution. The aim is to ensure the legal soundness of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u103	Given the importance of nuclear safety, the mission of the IRSN in this area and the quality of the information it provides to the general public, it is essential that there be no doubt as to the legal and budgetary soundness of its funding. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u104	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 269.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u105	We come back to the state of university housing, a point that we care about very much and on which we have already asked you several times, minister. One of the most concrete expressions of republican equal opportunities in France is to allow students, including French Government grantees, access to housing. Unfortunately, this republican prerogative is compromised by the state of disrepair of certain academic cities. Having a home is obviously a necessity to study. But living in a room that is sometimes only 9 to 12 square meters is a difficult, if not impossible, challenge if you have to cope with delapidated furniture, poorly insulated or uninsulated walls, degraded paints and bed bugs. For having often seen it in the neighbourhoods in which I have worked, I can testify to the hell that living in the presence of bedbugs means: you can no longer sleep; These insects are able to survive two years without feeding on blood and can therefore stay in your home for a very long time. We reiterate our call for the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the state of disrepair in some French academic cities and its adverse impact on study conditions. In our view, this would be an important point of support in order to better target the policies that we could put in place in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u107	Student life is one of the themes addressed during the intense consultation led by the Ministry of Higher Education and Research from July to October last. The answer goes, as you know, in particular through the reform of housing policy, including the creation of an additional 60,000 housing units and the generalisation of the free rental guarantee. At the same time, this has been said earlier, a number of costs of student life are stabilized, whether it is the level of registration fees or the price of university catering tickets. Housing and student health are at the heart of the Government's concerns, which is active in a number of ways to address the challenges. The topics you have discussed are closely monitored by the National Centre and the regional centres for academic and academic works – NOCUS and CROUS. They rehabilitated 4100 rooms in 2017. They are responsible operators who are able to plan renovation, rehabilitation and construction programmes. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u109	The housing stock of the university works network has more than 160,000 rooms. When I read a recent study, I found that about half of them no longer corresponded to students' expectations and needs, whether in terms of area, level of comfort, accessibility or energy performance. Nevertheless, I recall that 66000 rooms have been rehabilitated since 2004. In addition, I asked the director of the NOCUS to present a schedule for a complete rehabilitation of the park. This will be effective in 2022, and more than €80 million will be spent on it each year. As has been pointed out, we have also worked, within an inter-ministerial framework, to ensure that the Plan 80000 housing units cover 60000 student housing units and 20,000 housing units for young people working. We also wanted to strengthen and facilitate intergenerational cohabitation, which creates a social bond. It will be encouraged by a tax incentive. Finally, we propose to set up a national observatory for student housing as early as the beginning of 2018, in order to take stock of the steps taken in both rehabilitation and construction. You have already asked me about bed bugs. I invite you to consult your favorite news channel: you will see that this is a national invasion and that these little beasts haunt the humblest and most chic homes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u110	And the cinemas!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u111	I invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u112	Are you withdrawing the amendment, Mrs Panot?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u113	I'm holding it. We are often referred to as assizes, general states or observatories. However, in our view, these tools do not always provide a sufficient guarantee that the problem is taken into account. Nevertheless, I thank you for your very specific answer, Minister. We fully agree that bed bugs affect absolutely all environments, all over the world. This invasion is becoming massive and is beginning to create public health problems, especially for people with allergies. There are two very important issues: the availability of integrated municipal disinfecting services and the money that will be spent on disinfecting. If the problem is not taken into account, it may become a national issue in the coming years, especially in areas of delinquent habitat, where bed bugs easily move from one dwelling to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u114	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u115	By this amendment, we call for a study to be carried out on the resources allocated in higher education and research to vocational training and know-how, as well as on the extension of quality vocational training after secondary education. We want to have precise information on how public funds are spent on vocational education, at a time when we need highly qualified workers and technicians to succeed in the ecological transition. The basic level of training and qualification must be particularly high in order to cope with changes in the labour society and career development, but also with the arrival of robots. You have to have a solid foundation to be able to bounce back through life. We really hope that you will adopt this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, because we are concerned about the Government's announcements on learning and university. A general logic is emerging, the effects of which are projected in the field of vocational education. We need an evaluation to ensure that public funds are used properly and to have tools in the forthcoming debate on vocational education.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u118	I find it difficult to understand the precise purpose of your amendment. Professionalisation in higher education institutions refers to an extremely broad field, not to say huge: university degrees of technology – DUT –, professional licenses and master's degrees are professional degrees; learning is a method of professionalisation. It seems to me very complicated to draw up a report on such a vast field. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u120	If I understand this amendment correctly, you are asking for a report from the administration. I'm not completely convinced that this is the right channel, and I'm going to try to explain it to myself. Firstly, in accordance with the decrees of 22 August 2014, the National Council for Employment, Training and Vocational Guidance – CNEFOP – is responsible for drawing up, at national level, three-year guidelines setting out the priorities and the concerted strategy to promote the coordinated implementation of these guidelines, within the framework of actions within the territorial authorities or bodies involved in employment, training and vocational guidance. It therefore adopts, every three years, a programme to evaluate information and guidance policies, as well as policies for initial and continuing vocational training, integration and retention in employment. The last report was published in 2015 and the next report will be published in 2018. It seems to me appropriate to leave to the CNEFOP, which is a joint place involving the administrations, the regional authorities and the social partners, the initiative of the assessment of skills needs. If you were to ask me whether vocational training is one of the possible pedagogical approaches to obtaining a diploma, I would reply that, as I had the opportunity to say at the opening of the learning conference, I am firmly convinced that integration into the professional environment permitted by apprenticeship is one of the pedagogical methods that ultimately achieves qualifications and diplomas. This is why, as part of the Student Plan, I have announced that undergraduate students who wish to do so will be offered courses including internship modules and alternance modules allowing them to discover, learn or immerse themselves completely in the learning of know-how, which will of course be recognised by national diplomas. I therefore propose that you withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u121	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 275.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u122	By this amendment, the Government is requested to submit a report to Parliament on the use made of the research tax credit and its relevance to its objectives. You must have heard about it, two days ago, more than 400 employees of the Galderma dermatological laboratory protested against the restructuring of their site, which threatens 400 out of 550 jobs, even all of them. Since that mobilization, several elected officials have called on the Government to ensure that the research tax credit received by Galderma, amounting to €23 million, is returned to public finances. Indeed, the swelling of the tax credit seeks to raise several problems. The rapporteur of the Senate Committee of Inquiry of June 2015 had thus spoken of a form of omerta surrounding the subject, and recalled that the IRC is increasingly perceived as a tool for tax optimization and corporate tax reduction for the major groups of CAC 40, which, in volume, are the first beneficiaries. You will certainly agree, in the context of Paradise papers and the legitimate indignation caused by this type of practice, that national representation must be able to control the allocation of public aid. The purpose of the report we are requesting is to examine the characteristics of the recipients of this tax credit, as well as to determine whether the distribution of the IRC is optimal to fulfill its mission. It is also an opportunity to consider whether it would be more appropriate to set aside this amount for mid-sized companies – ETIs – and small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – for real research and development – R&amp;D projects, and subject to the hiring of research staff, the preservation of sites and the maintenance of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u125	The committee's opinion is unfavourable. The latest report on the subject was published by the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques – L'OFCE – in April 2017. In 2010, 2013 and 2015, all bodies, from France Strategy to the Court of Auditors, conducted evaluations. Interesting conclusions emerge: without the research tax credit, France would be, after the United States, the most expensive country in the world in terms of the cost of the researcher. It is therefore essential that we maintain this mechanism in order to continue to have researchers in France. In addition, and you know my commitment to this, we need to be more visible about hiring behaviours, especially young doctors, by companies that benefit from the research tax credit. I have tabled amendments to this effect, which will be discussed in the context of the examination of non-attached articles, and which I hope will be adopted, including on your benches. We believe it is important to maintain the scheme, but, as the Minister of Economy has said, the majority wants it to be more targeted at SMEs and midcaps. With this in mind, we could possibly also change the innovation tax credit for SMEs and ITEs, whose operation does not seem to us to be fully optimal today. The committee's opinion is unfavourable, but we share your concerns, and we are all at work on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u127	Madam Member, the report of the Senate to which you refer was rejected by the committee of inquiry, which is rare enough to be raised. As has been recalled, we have many reports on the IRC. I myself have asked that evaluation work be carried out in a scientific way. I have therefore commissioned studies from outside researchers and launched business surveys so that a summary of the results can be presented to me. I also encouraged RIC research, by making RIC management data available to researchers, so that they could make an objective analysis of it. For the time being, the studies conclude that the CIR has an additional effect on R&amp;D expenditure: 1 euro of CIR results in a total of 1 euro of additional R&amp;D expenditure. It encourages companies to hire young doctors, since 2008, thanks to the Young Doctors scheme. It has contributed to the increase in scientific employment in enterprises. However, I repeat, new assessments were requested, including one at the initiative of the department, which requested that the IRC impact study be updated. The latter will be delivered at the end of 2017. At the initiative of the National Commission for the Evaluation of Innovation Policies, attached to the Prime Minister, the results of three evaluations will also be achieved by the end of 2017, and published: impact of the IRC on key innovation indicators and, beyond that, on employment and productivity; evaluation of public policy interactions in support of research and development; Evaluation of the effects of the Young Doctors Scheme on access to R&D jobs. Therefore, it seems to me that your amendment is largely satisfied and that you could withdraw it. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u128	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u129	Thank you, minister, for these clarifications, which still seem contradictory to me: you say that there are enough studies and "at the same time" that you are going to ask for others yourself. You therefore acknowledge the validity of our request! Indeed, the IRC is the subject of contradictory analyses, and the rejection of the report by the Senate Committee of Inquiry in 2015 shows how sensitive the subject is. Another report can therefore be legitimately submitted to the National Assembly. Madam Special Rapporteur, the discussion on the amendments that will be submitted to us will be all the more informed as we will have all the information on this subject, including the contradictory opinions of the various experts. Finally, we are, like you, very attached to France's attractiveness in research, but we favour public research over private research. That was the meaning of many of our amendments. I agree that logic is different. As you consider the budgetary constraint extremely strong, and after the revelations on the extent of tax optimisation and tax evasion, it seems appropriate to us that the National Assembly should be able to know in detail how the IRC funds are allocated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u130	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 276.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u131	With this amendment, the Government is requested to submit a report to Parliament to assess the adequacy of the resources allocated to research in the areas of the ecological transition. The 190 programme "Energy, environment and mobility research" is, of course, up by EUR 24 million, but this increase is mainly absorbed by Action 14 "Research and development in the field of civil aeronautics", including the sub-actions "Aircraft" and "Hélicoptères", which has been allocated EUR 34 million in additional appropriations. In addition, we consider that the budget allocated to programme 142 "Higher education and agricultural research" is also insufficient. We are reminded that information can be gleaned here or there, in the budget annexes, or in the report for the opinion of our colleague Gérard Menuel. However, the same report points out, from the preamble, that in terms of financial effort for ecological transition, it is more a matter of a catch-up budget than of a budget of progress. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The purpose of this amendment is to obtain a comprehensive and more legible synthesis of these data, in order to assess the legislative urgency of the data, while the Government now seems to be moving backwards on its own energy mix objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u132	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u133	The two programs you refer to are experiencing an increase in their appropriations in the 2018 Finance Bill. With regard to programme 190, which covers research in the fields of sustainable development, energy, transport, construction and development, payment appropriations increase by EUR 24 million. Part of this increase is indeed linked to research in the field of civil aviation, as you mentioned. Under the aegis of the Council for Civil Aviation Research, led by the Minister responsible for Transport, Élisabeth Borne, the aim is to develop a technological roadmap, which must lead French actors to propose, by 2020, a two-way reduction in aircraft consumption, their noise emissions, and a reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions, which is a toxic atmospheric pollutant, to 80%. Free to consider that these issues have nothing to do with the ecological transition, but for having met with the various actors in this programme myself, I can tell you that they are fully engaged in this field. The draft finance law for 2018 provides for an increase of €5 million in the 142 programme. Here too, the actors are satisfied with it. Finally, under the Grand Investment Plan, €20 billion is spent on the energy transition, of which €9 billion is spent on energy efficiency in buildings, €7 billion on clean energy production, and €4 billion on transport, including €135 million for civil aviation. All of this is therefore perfectly coherent and documented. The committee is therefore against this amendment. It was relevant to inform and evaluate, but it was somewhat excessive to request a report from the Government, whereas it was the role of the special rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u135	You call for the Government to submit an information report to Parliament to assess the adequacy of the resources allocated to research in the field of the ecological transition to France's national and international commitments to combat climate change. This is a relevant and important issue, but I do not believe that this amendment is the best way to obtain the necessary periodic, regular and up-to-date information. The Energy Transition for Green Growth Act provides for the development of a national energy research strategy. It was published in December 2016 – less than a year ago. This strategy specifies the energy component of the national research strategy, and its development has been based on a follow-up committee of stakeholders, modelled on what is proposed in the operative part of your amendment. Since its publication in December 2016, the SNRE has been the subject of an initial evaluation by the OPECST – Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices – in Report No. 4575 of the National Assembly of 6 March 2017. So he's just over six months old. In accordance with the law, this strategy will be evaluated again in 18 to 24 months. Consequently, the production of a report assessing the adequacy of the resources invested in climate change research in the energy field does not seem necessary in view of the work already carried out in conjunction with OPECST. Your request is therefore satisfied, Madam Member. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the Government will issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u136	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u137	Minister, you always bring specific information that sheds light. Having said that, I am not at all aware of the fact that our colleague Gérard Menuel, in the report I mentioned, refers to "a catch-up budget more than progress".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u138	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We have completed the review of the "Research and Higher Education" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u139	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u140	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u141	We are dealing with the examination of official development assistance appropriations and the appropriations of the trust account "Lending to foreign States" (No. 273, annex 6; No. 275, volume III). The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the "Official Development Assistance" (ODA) mission, which I am presenting to you today, is a major instrument of foreign policy defined by the President of the Republic, on which we intend to implement its commitments: it gives us a concrete capacity for action, on the ground, to serve not only our objectives of global crisis management, but also of protecting common goods such as climate, education or health. France continues to be a major player in international development in 2017. However, our rank is being questioned, due to a continued decline in our resources since 2010. The trend must therefore be reversed. This is the meaning of the decision of the President of the Republic, in line with his campaign commitment, to increase all official development assistance from 0.38 per cent to 0.55 per cent of national wealth by 2022. This represents an increase from €8.5 billion in 2016 to almost €15 billion at the end of the quinquennium. With nearly 2.7 billion euros, this mission's budget represents 38% of total French official development assistance. Of this amount, €961 million is managed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. My ministry's share of payment appropriations is EUR 1.7 billion, up EUR 119 million from 2017. Our ODA, which responds to a strategic vision, marks clearly defined priorities. The first, which is of a geographical nature, results in intervention, in particular, in the 17 poor countries to which France intends to give priority. Our aid responds to thematic priorities, the first of which is humanitarian aid, which has been the poor parent of our official development assistance for several years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u143	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u144	It is important to increase it gradually, with another 20% from this budget. The other thematic priority is global warming. We must also address the fragility in Africa, including the launch of the Sahel Alliance, for which we are providing an annual funding of €35 million. Finally, our work is important in the areas of education, health and gender issues. After the priorities, which I mentioned very quickly, I come to the frameworks for action: the bilateral framework, first, for 573 million euros in payment appropriations, with an increase of 80 million euros in commitment authorisations in 2018. This volume will have to increase significantly in the following years, in order to meet the objectives set by the President of the Republic, which I have already mentioned. We will need to increase and further strengthen the bilateral framework. We then act within the multilateral framework, with our voluntary contributions to international organisations: they amount to almost 100 million euros overall. It is also within a multilateral framework that two thirds of the appropriations of the Ministry of Economy and Finance are mobilised: I am thinking in particular of financing the World Bank's instruments for aid to the poorest countries, or sectoral funds, including the Green Fund. The third framework is the Community framework, with a significant contribution to the European Development Fund of €850 million, an increase of more than €100 million this year compared to last year. We are involved in the management of this fund: it is therefore a powerful tool to get our partners to support our own sectoral and geographical priorities – I am thinking in particular of Africa. In order to achieve the goals I quickly recalled, our ODA is also based on innovative financing in the form of extrabudgetary funding. This is the aircraft ticket tax and the tax on financial transactions, which feed into the EUR 1 billion Solidarity Fund for Development, of which EUR 687 million is managed by my ministry. I would add that the rise of our aid goes hand in hand with its qualitative improvement, requested by many of you. As soon as I took office, I indicated that this would mean an increase in the share of grants in relation to loans and bilateral instruments in relation to multilateral aid. I want to tell you again today. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we are still only at the beginning of the rise in power desired by the President of the Republic. I am currently leading discussions aimed at building a credible fiscal trajectory, which I will present to the President of the Republic in the coming weeks in order to meet the objectives he set out at the beginning of his quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u145	Mr Le Fur, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u146	Mr President, Mr Minister, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, France's official development aid is a complex machinery whose criteria and limits are defined at international level by the OECD, which allows comparisons to be made. Every year, therefore, France reports to the OECD expenditure on this item which meets these criteria. In 2016, France declared EUR 8.6 billion, half of which is part of the report we are dealing with today. Among these €8.6 billion, there is the "Official Development Assistance" mission, which comprises two programmes – two ministers, one of whom is a leader, are involved in this mission: the 110 programme, under the responsibility of the Minister of Economy, and the 209 programme, which is directly under your ministry and is more important than the 110 programme, since it represents €1.738 billion of commitment authorisations in 2018. Both programmes provide multilateral and bilateral assistance. The secular arm of this policy is the Agence française de développement – AFD – the main operator that implements 80% of France's bilateral aid, in the form of loan subsidies for programme 110 and in the form of grants – is the essential activity of programme 209. Loans account for 80% of AFD's activity: it is a bank, but a bank that makes donations. This is the singularity of international development assistance. The tools that are mobilised by most countries as well as at the international level – this is also the case with the World Bank – are banking tools. The report also covers the special account "Lending to foreign states". So today we are looking at almost half of official development assistance, bearing in mind that although they are not directly related to our discussion today, other tools exist, in particular the affected taxes – the airfare tax and the tax on financial transactions. During the previous quinquennium, French ODA fell considerably from €3.3 billion to €2.6 billion. As a percentage – let us recall the previously promised 0.7% – ODA has increased from 0.42% to 0.38%, while the United Kingdom, Germany or Turkey – the comparison is even more cruel – have reached or exceeded 0.7%. The President of the Republic, who decided to reverse this curve, set the target at the end of the quinquennium 0.55%. It has also given priority to the most difficult countries and donations. These two objectives are associated: to help countries in difficulty, we must focus our efforts first on donations. If I fully endorse these priorities, I would like to stress five points. Without wishing to do any trial of intent, I would like to point out – this is my first point – that, as Mansour Kamardine observed in committee, the increase in appropriations for 2018 is less in terms of mass than the amount of appropriations cancelled in 2017. The second point is that the 0.55% target is far from being achieved, since it implies an increase in power of some 5 billion during this quinquennium. The increase announced today is only EUR 94 million in payment appropriations and EUR 178 million in commitment authorisations. The weakness of your budget, Minister, is the weakness of commitment authorities. If I do not dispute the amount of payment appropriations – we will not consume more – it would, however, have required more commitment authorisations, because the implementation of projects, especially in the bilateral context with poor countries, takes time, sometimes four or five years, to find interlocutors, contractors or co-financers. Thirdly, our aid must benefit our businesses as much as possible. This is all the more difficult because most of these aids are now untied. Fourth point: we must think about migration. That was the point made by the President of the Republic recently in front of the French in the twenty-hour television news. We must not be naive: when we help a country, we have the right to be demanding about its migration policy. Positive examples exist: Niger has been able to make efforts. It is therefore normal for Niger to be retained as part of the support we give. Let me conclude with my fifth point: the weakness of food aid, which accounts for only 1.3% of aid, while Europe is full of unused food proteins which could be used. I adhere to these objectives, which are in the right direction. We could have had larger commitment authorizations. The real justice of the peace will be the 2019 budget: we will then see whether or not we are able to achieve the 5 billion increase in five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u147	The next speaker is Mr Hubert Julien-Laferriere, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u148	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, when you go to a developing country, you all notice France's unique place in the world: it is the homeland of human rights, the nation that has said no to Bush's America, the one that, since the Bandung Conference, has been the engine of international solidarity. France is associated with President Mitterrand's speech in Cancún and with President Macron's speech in the UN rostrum a few weeks ago. And yet, for several years now, budgets have fallen short of this ambition. France does not devote enough of its national wealth – less than 0.4 per cent – to official development assistance, while, as Marc Le Fur pointed out, seven European countries are now fulfilling the 1970 commitment of developed countries to devote 0.7 per cent of their national wealth to official development assistance. From 2010 to last year, our ODA fell by almost 45 per cent. We must therefore welcome the ambition found and affirmed by the President of the Republic before the United Nations. As the minister pointed out, the trajectory set up until 2022 foresees an increase of €6 billion in our official development assistance. We must also welcome the rise of our development bank, the Agence française de développement. As of 2018, this ambition has been reflected in an increase in budgetary appropriations, both in payment appropriations and in commitment authorities. That has already been recalled. But you know, minister, that some will find this increase too modest in terms of trajectory; That is why national representation and French development actors expect the Government to clarify this path, which will, I am sure, lead to an effort of 0.55% of GDP in 2022. More needs to be done in the area of official development assistance. This ambition is affirmed. But we will also need to do better, and therefore make strategic choices to make our aid more effective. You have referred, Minister, to the main directions you intend to follow in this area. To be effective is first of all to give priority to bilateral aid, which, unfortunately, has often been the variable for adjusting our budgetary arbitrage. Of course, bilateral aid no longer consists of setting a French flag at a hospital or at a drilling site rather than participating in a multilateral public policy. On the contrary, I believe that our bilateral assistance can, and indeed must, serve the multilateralism and commitments of the international community, which France is often the driving force behind. Of course, I am thinking of the Paris Agreement, the signatories of which have committed themselves to devote EUR 100 billion per year – EUR 5 billion for France – to supporting developing countries in their adaptation and mitigation strategies. I am also thinking of the goals of sustainable development, this road map adopted by the international community in 2015 for the development and reduction of inequalities. To be effective is also to involve more local actors, French communities and communities in developing countries, as part of a more territorialised aid. France is already ahead of this movement, both through its tradition of decentralized cooperation and because it often works with local actors in the partner countries, who are increasing their competence thanks to the intensification of the decentralization movement in developing countries. I want to welcome AFD's commitment in this area. To be effective is also to regain our tradition of expertise, which has almost disappeared. However, it is no longer the alternative aid it has been; On the contrary, it contributes to capacity-building in partner countries. Our operator, Expertise France, will therefore have to grow in power, in particular by completing the consolidation of the expertise still distributed in certain ministries. To be effective is, of course, to shift our appropriations towards our geographical and sectoral priorities. You recalled, Minister, our sectoral priorities – education, health, women's empowerment, governance and climate – and the priority we place on the poorest countries. Today, the least developed countries are mobilizing 22 per cent of our aid, which is insufficient. As part of the trajectory, this share will increase, especially in the Sahel, where the challenges of poverty reduction, migration, peace and security are mixed. Being effective also means rebalancing the share of donations against loans. This is the corollary of what we have said at the moment: if loans are adapted to infrastructure projects in emerging countries, it is the donations that must be mobilized in poor countries, especially for the sectoral priorities that we have identified. To be effective is finally to improve the steering of our aid. The people we auditioned unanimously regretted an overly complex and scattered architecture. It is therefore necessary to make our aid more legible and to facilitate the necessary budgetary arbitrage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u149	Thank you for concluding, Mr draftsman.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u150	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] With 0.4 per cent of the GDP of developed countries transferred to developing countries, official development assistance is now the only instrument for global redistribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u152	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Seven speakers should speak: I invite them to respect their speaking time, which may not exceed five minutes. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u153	Mr President, Mr Minister, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already been able to say, the budget for official development assistance poses real problems of political coherence between the presidential speech and its implementation by the government. From the beginning of his term of office, Mr Macron expressed the hope that France would finally take official development assistance seriously, making up for the backlog in this area and pursuing the objective, a priori achievable, of earmarking 0.55% of its gross national income by the end of the quinquennium. However, we keep repeating it unanimously, these efforts should have been visible as early as 2018; Otherwise, it seems unthinkable to us that this objective should be achieved. Taking into account the very modest three-year budget proposal that runs until 2020, efforts to achieve this result will be concentrated on 2021 and 2022, where 1.5 billion and then 2.4 billion euros will have to be committed, which is far too heavy to be credible, as this would double the official development assistance budget in just two fiscal years. We don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u155	But you never know...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u157	On the other hand, if the effort had been made this year, it would have been possible to build power over four years to achieve this objective. We therefore call on the Government to urgently prepare a road map so that we can know its objectives. It would be ideal for the increase in appropriations to be regular and legible rather than on a case-by-case basis, budget after budget, year after year. The second reason why it seems impossible for us to vote on this budget is the rejection of our amendments aimed at broadening the base and increasing the rate of the tax on financial transactions – TTF – which is one of the most powerful tax levers for providing official development assistance. By taxing intraday transactions, we would have greatly expanded the FTT base and generated around €3 billion in additional revenue. By raising the FTT rate to 0.5%, as is already the case in London, revenues would have increased by at least EUR 1 billion. By extending the application of the tax to companies with a market capitalisation of more than EUR 500 million, instead of EUR 1 billion at present, we could again have generated considerable revenue. Thus, even without raising the FTT allocation rate to 100 per cent for official development assistance, it would have been possible to abundate this budget to a large extent. I regret that your policy of tax dumping aimed at attracting businesses from the City after Brexit is to the detriment of official development assistance. Perhaps the third reason is the most scandalous. As part of the budget cuts in July, you simply cancelled 130 million euros allocated to the official development assistance mission. The increase of just EUR 100 million in the draft budget for 2018 masks a decrease in appropriations for next year. For us, it is unthinkable to validate this accounting deception that allowed you, as in the budget of the external action of the state, to value in the finance bill increases that are actually decreases. Finally, we must mention the structure of our ODA. We denounce the lack of political governance that destroys any desire for France to have a clear vision of its development aid policy. The demands of the players in this sector are therefore not politically echoed. This situation is problematic, especially since there are things to be resolved – I am thinking of the chronic underfunding of French NGOs and the forthcoming merger between AFD and Expertise France. Without guidance and reflection on the rationalisation of this environment and aid at the highest level, the questions remain unanswered. We reiterate our request that a full-function State Secretariat or Ministry be established to put an end to this situation. I stress the deplorable image France gives on the world stage because of its policy of official development assistance, and even because of its global policy, Minister – I know the image of France in the world on other subjects...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u158	France enjoys a good image, including on the issue of official development assistance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u159	It should not be forgotten that these budget lines allow international missions to work to end hunger, to facilitate international cooperation, to provide emergency humanitarian assistance and, ultimately, to work for peace. Everyone knows this and you have said it yourself, Minister: today, problems of migration, war or conflict are often linked to poverty or wealth. Official development assistance can provide responses. Let us not forget that the "Official Development Assistance" mission is central to French diplomacy. In this budget, there is no expenditure: there are only investments. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] You will have understood this: it is therefore impossible for the GDR Group to validate such a low budget in the light of such fundamental issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u160	Thank you, Mr Lecoq, for respecting your time. The next speaker is Mr Frédéric Descrozaille, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u161	Mr President, Mr Minister, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the moving Republic Group will naturally vote on these appropriations. However, I would like to put some things in perspective, beyond what has already been said in this rostrum. France's share of gross national income devoted to official development assistance fell significantly in the 2010s. One might think that this decline is linked, inter alia, to the crisis of 2008 and 2009. In fact, the official development assistance effort collapsed in the 1990s. Let me remind you that the 0.7 per cent rate of gross national income for official development assistance is a target adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1970. Initially, the target was 1% of gross national income, with public and private aid combined, but about a decade later it was estimated that a target of 0.7% was reasonable for public aid. However, French public aid has never exceeded 0.6%. In the second half of the 1990s, it was even reduced from 0.6% to 0.3%. In a context marked by a very tense budgetary situation – we know this well because we have spent many hours in this House discussing the 2018 budget – official development assistance is one of the best-off public policies, which are priorities. Of course, it is regrettable that the effort is insufficient, but it is counterproductive not to vote on these appropriations on the grounds that they are insufficient. The commitment is real and sincere: the minister himself met with all the actors involved in official development assistance, including SUD Coordination recently – it was a first! The subject was announced as a priority of the French presidency of the UN Security Council. I repeat: the commitment of the President of the Republic is sincere and will be supported. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Many improvements are being made to this public policy. We fully agree with the idea of placing all of France's external action under a single umbrella, in order to give it more coherence. There are still things to be done, but in the current context, the fact that this aid will be raised by more than EUR 100 million by focusing on the commitment authorisations next year, but also by granting EUR 30 million of payment appropriations for humanitarian aid and EUR 35 million for food aid, as the rapporteurs have said, is proof that the commitment of the President of the Republic, who is also our commitment, is sincere and that the promise will be fulfilled, even if it is a challenge. I therefore invite you to vote for the official development assistance mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u162	The next speaker is Mr Mansour Kamardine, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u163	Mr President, Mr Minister, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at the appropriations for the Official Development Assistance mission in a threefold particular context. First, a new executive branch and a new parliamentary majority have set and confirmed their guidelines and targets for official development assistance. Moreover, the international community is mobilizing for the stabilization of the Sahel, the return of terrorism and the development of all the countries concerned. Finally, the globalization of illegal immigration channels affects the national territory, its security, its stability and, more broadly, its development when it comes to the overseas territories and departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u164	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u165	I am thinking in particular of the French departments of America and the Indian Ocean. I will not go back to the discussions we had in the enlarged committee on the official development assistance mission. I shall confine myself to a very brief summary: after five years of an important reflux of our ODA, which has moved us away from our international commitments and our moral obligations of solidarity towards friendly peoples, we are finally putting an end to the decline, without, however, reviving our ODA, nor putting the budget on the path desired by the President of the Republic. Are France's stalling in relation to our main partners, in particular Europeans, the material impossibility of achieving our stated objectives and our failure to fulfil our duty of solidarity with friendly peoples, often French-speaking, just stabilized? The moderate increase in budgetary appropriations masks, in fact, a quasi-stability in constant euros, particularly as regards bilateral aid. The mission's only real priority, which is reflected in the budget, is the increase in multilateral aid for around EUR 100 million through our Community transfers. With an increase of EUR 100 million in payment appropriations and EUR 480 million in commitment authorisations, while an increase of at least an additional 1.2 billion is needed every year, it is physically impossible to achieve ODA representing 0.55% of our gross national income – GNI.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u167	That is why I call on my fellow Members of the majority to realise that the objective set and reaffirmed by President Macron for official development assistance is being killed in the egg from the first fiscal year. While it is necessary to help the Government to fulfil the commitments that the President of the Republic has made to the national or international community – and that is why you are here, colleagues – an important increase in ODA is a need for national security.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u168	Good word!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u169	How can we consider helping the countries of the Sahel, often fragile or rebuilding states, to confront terrorism and to fix their people on their soil, if we do not strengthen the atrophied foot of development in the triptych "defense development diplomacy". It is certainly not with the €200 million a year spent on the Sahel, of which only €80 million for programme support, that the excellent Agence Française de Développement will be able to meet the challenges. It is certainly not with these amounts that we will be able to reduce external military expenditure, in this case EUR 700 million per year for Operation Barkhane. Not committing an additional EUR 100 million per year to development is the assurance of having to spend hundreds of millions of euros per year on external military operations. This is a bad choice for the control of our public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u171	The same applies to ODA to Haiti, Madagascar and the Comoros, three countries in the priority area of solidarity. In Mayotte, for example, the weakness of our ODA to the Comoros, which runs around EUR 10 million a year, does not allow the hope that this country will grow, while the cost of illegal Comorian immigration represents, for the education and health sectors alone, an annual budgetary expenditure of more than EUR 300 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u172	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u173	In conclusion, the Group of the Republicans wishes to accompany you, Minister, and above all to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that by the end of the budgetary process which ends in December, the increase in appropriations be at least doubled. This would correspond to an additional EUR 100 million increase in payment appropriations and EUR 200 million in commitment authorisations. These are the conditions that would allow us to accompany you in official development assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u175	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u176	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if France wants its universal voice to be heard beyond its borders, it must live up to the commitments it makes, especially those which bear the values of justice and solidarity that are at the heart of its speech. However, at the risk of losing some of its international credibility, it fails to deliver on one of its most significant commitments. It is unthinkable that France, committed since 1970 to the goal of allocating 0.7 per cent of its gross national income to official development assistance, is now, more than forty-five years later, grimly approaching 0.4 per cent of its gross national income. It is therefore very pleased that the Government, in accordance with the guidelines of the President of the Republic, has re-engaged France in concrete terms, that is to say, in the budget, on the path of respecting this crucial commitment. The interim commitment of 0.55% of GNI in 2022 seems realistic and the 6.9% increase in the official development assistance mission in the draft budget for 2018 is a first step in the right path. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes this development, but will remain vigilant about the effective implementation of this commitment. The budget is, as we know, constrained, and official development assistance often acts as an adjustment variable. France mobilises different types of financing for development aid. Our group is also calling for the development of another method of financing, which could go beyond the current taxes, the revenues of which are by nature random. More broadly, we call for thinking in terms of development assistance, not just official development assistance. It is indeed imperative to improve the link between the State, local and regional authorities, whose important role I want to stress in cooperation, non-governmental organisations – NGOs – and private partners. It is about the financial power of our global aid and its effectiveness. Because beyond the figures, there is also the question of the effectiveness of our official development assistance. In this regard, we can highlight several avenues for improvement, which the Government seems to partly take into account in this budget proposal, but in our view is insufficient. A first step is to rebalance the relationship between loans and donations. Some of my colleagues have pointed out this: in France, and unlike other OECD countries, the share of loans has increased sharply over the last ten years, particularly for budgetary reasons. We therefore suggest not to neglect donations, which must be conceived as investment operations in structural projects, for the mutual benefit of the beneficiary country and, in the longer term, of France. It also seems important to rebalance the relationship between multilateral and bilateral aid. I recall here that bilateral aid is a political lever, which guarantees our autonomy for action. There is also a need for strong political leadership of official development assistance. However, if we hear the sharing of competences that it implies, we find that the division of the Official Development Assistance budget mission into two programmes, led by two different ministries, does not help to readjust the governance of this aid. The absence of a minister or secretary of state specifically dedicated to development aid and even the deletion of the reference to "international development" or "cooperation" in the titles of ministries are also, in our view, a negative signal sent to all. Finally, strategic, thematic and geographical priorities need to be defined. It is surprising, for example, given the OECD figures for 2015, that the French-speaking African countries, which are among the most difficult and close to us because of geography and history, are not among the main recipients of French aid, with the exception of Morocco and Mali. We therefore call for clear priorities to guide our overall assistance to those who need it most. To this end, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement proposes that Parliament be better involved in the direction of our official development assistance, not only by playing its role of monitoring the Government's action in this area, but also by actively participating in the formulation of its strategic priorities. Each year, our assembly could host a debate on France's strategic priorities for development aid. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement wishes to support the Government's efforts to boost official development assistance, and will therefore vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u177	After all you said, it's disappointing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u178	However, we remain vigilant and invite you, Mr.Minister, to take into account these few proposals and avenues for improvement, so that, in the eyes of the world, France's name always rhymes with the words of justice and solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u179	It's constructive!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u180	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Because there is a community of destiny among all men, it is our duty and our fidelity to our history that France, motherland of human rights, takes its full place in this common destiny, being innovative in its support, uncompromising in its values and benevolent in its actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u181	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u182	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to speak clearly, France's European and national policy in the field of migration and development aid has two directions: on the one hand, a policy of limiting migrants at the borders of the Union, with the desire to retain in the countries of origin all those who want to leave, an effective policy, particularly in North Africa, with the result that the number of clandestine passages through the Mediterranean is decreasing; On the other hand, an objective of increasing the means for energy transition, climate adaptation and development aid – it's beautiful, it's noble, it's logical, but it's only baratin at the moment. We are clearly effective in our ability to close our borders, but when we do our things, we are no more generous in helping the people of the poor countries that we place on the spot. The consequence of all this is terrible: because we have not assumed our responsibility in the history of global warming, because we do not intervene militarily where we do not have direct interests, because, too obsessed with welcoming traders to our territory, we decide to postpone the search for innovative financing such as that of the tax on financial transactions, or because we consider that such spending is not a priority in our country compared to others, we postpone from year to year the increases in the budget for development aid, and when the latter increases timidly, Bercy's wolves crumble with greed. So we condemn the misery and death of more and more people who have been sent home or fled to other neighbouring countries. Not to mention the scandal of the dizzying amount of money diverted into tax havens. To prepare for this intervention, I mechanically obtained a request for relief, written by friends of a refugee family in my city. This letter draws my attention to the fate of a young woman of Eritrean origin, Denait, who did not have the chance of her relatives, accepted by official means because they had been expelled from Saudi Arabia, after the death of one of their relatives. Denaït took refuge in Sudan more than a year ago, fleeing poverty. In this country, as you know, Minister, we have only one objective: to go through Libya and cross the Mediterranean. As the borders with Libya are now closed, Sudan returns all those present on its territory, telling them that it does not have the means to receive them. Perhaps Denait will have to return to Eritrea, one of the most dangerous countries in the world. Maybe she'll have to run away. I have also considered, dear Marc Le Fur, the humanitarian mission that we have just completed in Niger, a country in which we must support development aid. As president of a decentralised cooperation organisation, probably the most important one to commit to development aid in Niger, I have been asking for AFD's assistance for years, which I am still denied because this institution is faced with limited financial resources. Thus, because we do not increase our development aid budget, we condemn people in these countries to great difficulties. The Government's finance bill for 2018 provides for the "Official Development Assistance" mission of 2.7 billion euros, or 100 million euros in increase, after last year's budget cut of 130 million euros. It must be clear that it is difficult to find the increase. The President of the Republic has made a good public commitment – I keep it in mind and will not forget it from the whole legislature – to increase the share of development aid every year. This increase is expected to be 1.2 billion euros in order to achieve the stated objectives: by 2018, nothing is expected, while 1.5 billion euros is announced for 2019. A few moments ago, Minister, you said that you would present a road map. If this document shows an increase of $1.5 billion for next year and so much for the following years, I promise you that I will publicly apologise for having given too hard a speech to you. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] Finally, I hope that we will all be convinced of the need to increase official development assistance. Today, this is not the case, which is particularly serious for our commitments and for the image of France, in the name of freedom and human rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u183	Mr President, Mr Minister, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the budget for official development assistance at the time of the 23rd Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention against Climate Change in Bonn. Chaired by Fiji, a country with particular concerns about climate change, this conference puts the most vulnerable countries at the forefront. In the face of the loss of territory due to climate disruption, the international community will be required to act. France, the guarantor of the Paris climate agreement, of which we have all rejoiced, is required to act. Supposed to act by engaging with the most vulnerable states, committing to supporting their current climate change mitigation policies and, above all, adapting to this change. Supposed to act in order to accompany them in the implementation of the sustainable development goals by 2030. Supposed to act in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic to increase official development assistance by 2022 so that its budget would represent 0.55% of gross national income, with the aim of reaching 0.7% by 2030 – a goal which, let us recall, was set by the United Nations a long time ago in 1970. Nearly fifty years later, we are far from it: France is now spending only 0.37 per cent of its gross national income on official development assistance. The many crises we are facing, which the countries of the South are facing, are worsening. Climate change and, more broadly, environmental degradation are particularly affecting highly vulnerable countries, which constitute real crisis multipliers. The situation demands that we be with them more than ever before. However, our country's official development assistance has not been up to the challenge for a long time. The amounts allocated to the French policy of international solidarity are very insufficient. Moreover, one of the first decisions taken by your government, Mr.Minister, was the cancellation last summer of a significant share of the appropriations voted for 2017: 136.2 million euros in payment appropriations and 158 million in commitment authorisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u184	A real pass trick!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u185	While the increase in the budget of the Official Development Assistance mission is real, it does not make it possible to compensate for the cancellation of last July's appropriations or to resolutely commit France on a credible path towards the target of 0.55% of gross national income by the 2022 deadline. The total amount of French aid is expected to reach more than €9 billion in 2017. It is therefore a considerable effort, if not disproportionate, that would remain to be made to reach the target that has been defined. Of course, this budget, as the following ones will be, is forced. Almost all public policies are involved in the budgetary effort. But shouldn't it have been necessary, therefore, to start deploying innovative financing mechanisms? Why not have increased the tax on financial transactions and why not expect an increase in the proportion of its revenue allocated to development aid now? The amendments proposed by the Members of the New Left Group thus tended to increase the rate of the TTF and extend its base and then allocate more of its product to AFD. Let me pay tribute here to Dominique Potier's commitment to defending these amendments. None of them, however, was voted; On the other hand, the majority group adopted an amendment transferring EUR 270 million from the development solidarity fund to AFD, through which the TTF proceeds are usually passed. In other words, we undressed Peter to dress Paul. Minister, what course and instruments is the Government planning to adopt to meet the presidential commitment to allocate 0.55 per cent of our gross national income to development assistance by 2022? Combating poverty in the world, achieving sustainable development goals, supporting the most vulnerable countries so that they can be part of a sustainable prosperity approach: these goals are based, you will agree, on the essential idea of sharing a common humanity. The development of the poorest countries is also a diplomatic issue, as it concerns security and the control of migratory flows. Climate and environmental, social and political crises generate conflicts that drive many communities to emigrate. Minister, the New Left Group will fight with you to ensure that the official development assistance budget is rapidly revised to meet our commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u186	It makes sense, you have things to make up for...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u187	Mrs Clémentine Autain, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u188	"Poverty is not an accident. Like slavery and apartheid, it is created by man and can therefore be avoided by his actions. In two sentences, Nelson Mandela's quote is a measure of the importance of official development assistance, an instrument correcting a deeply unjust globalization. However, France's effort in this area, which is still the sixth largest economic power in the world, is a misery. This new budget is not even up to the commitments made. Minister, you are talking about an increase of EUR 100 million in 2018, but you are not taking into account the cancellations of EUR 136 million in July 2017. Despite the announcement effects, we are witnessing a further fall in the budget for development aid, already well under way during the previous quinquennium. Today, in order to achieve the target of allocating 0.55 per cent of gross national income to official development assistance, as Emmanuel Macron has committed himself to doing, the ODA budget should be increased by €1.2 billion per year. We're not there at all! And again, would it not be possible to comply with our country's commitment, enshrined in the law in 2014, to allocate 0.7% of gross national income to official development assistance, which other European countries are doing very well: I am of course thinking of the United Kingdom, Denmark, but also of a country that is dear to you and which you often take as a model, except in this case – Germany. France is only the twelfth largest contributor to the Development Assistance Committee. Official development assistance pays the high price of the austerity policies that follow, unfortunately, and are similar. Minister, you will, I know, retort me "gold rule"; I will answer you "financial transaction tax" or "the fight against tax evasion". For there are solutions to better equip this budget: one could start by extending the TTF's base or by devoting all its benefits to development aid. If France does not pursue a proactive policy, how can it meet the ecological and migratory challenges, help combat poverty and even extreme poverty or, to a different extent, the causes of the wars that we are going through? I will take just one example: aid to the Sahel countries is 29 per cent lower than the cost of Operation Barkhane alone. However, France has every interest in working for peace and stability through development aid, which is essential before and after military operations. France must therefore seriously rethink its development aid policy, which benefits only marginally the poorest countries, while the developed countries have made commitments to this end, renewed by the Addis Ababa Action Plan in 2015 and the 2030 Agenda. France is not honouring its commitments: in 2015, it spent only 27 per cent of its aid to the least developed countries. This aid even decreased by 17 % between 2011 and 2015. France must also review the modalities for the distribution of its aid. Today, French development aid favours loans, at the expense of grants to the most difficult countries, which puts these countries at a disadvantage. According to the figures presented in Mr. Le Fur's report, grants averaged 67 per cent of French development aid between 2003 and 2015, 15 points less than for all Development Assistance Committee countries. At the same time, between 2007 and 2015, the share of loans in French aid rose from 9% to 32%, while it remained stable in all DAC donor countries. This orientation simply does not support the most vulnerable countries, which need rapid, direct and flexible financial support. Without a change of political course, it will be impossible for us to combat this trap of global poverty, which affects more than 800 million people. There is an urgent need to make international solidarity and sustainable development a priority of our foreign policy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You will understand that, under the present conditions, the Members of the House of Commons of France cannot but vote against this draft budget. We deeply regret it, because peace and solidarity are at stake, and because France should honour its commitments by facing this harmful global situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u189	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mr Jacques Maire has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u190	[[At 17:40, Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Mr. Sylvain Waserman in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u191	With regard to official development assistance, we have experienced years of decline, regularly interspersed with years of stagnation. This year, it changes, and it feels good. Beyond this good impression, minister, we cannot afford to lose a year. Without reprogramming, some have said, the forecast of an increase of EUR 500 million over the next three years prompts us to wonder about the end of the quinquennium. This is a bold bet, including from the accounting point of view: official development assistance is calculated in terms of expenditure, payment appropriations, so that if commitment authorisations reach EUR 5.5 billion at the end of the period, they will not be spent; then we risk to miss the step by very little. But that is not my main question; here it is. To achieve the 0.55% target, there must be public support, beyond NGOs; and, to that end, we must ensure that French official development assistance clearly contributes to meeting the major challenges facing our country: development, health, but also migration, or, as the President says, an education that protects young people from radicalisation. If we want to achieve this, we cannot delegate our entire policy to an operator, even as effective as AFD. However, if you have foreseen an increase in official development aid of EUR 5 billion over the period, for the time being we have hardly heard of your measures on pilotage and control, both in Paris and on the ground. However, since the absorption of the Ministry of Cooperation, the development teams have almost disappeared or are in the process of disappearing. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Minister, to win your bet, you have to create, or rather recreate, real expertise and coordination at central and field level. What are your orientations in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u192	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u193	You recalled, Mr. Member, the commitments of the President of the Republic. On this point, I maintain what I said in my introductory statement. I have been instructed by the Prime Minister to establish a fiscal trajectory to reach 0.55% by 2022, and I understand that it will begin in 2019. For it is true that, if this were not the case, the quantitative leap to be made would be far too large. I say this to all the speakers who have spoken on this subject. It is from 2019 that we will have to move to a higher speed. There are already signs of this in the 2018 budget, but the effort will need to be significantly increased, on a path that I will have to communicate to the relevant commissions as soon as it is validated by the Government and the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic made this commitment very solemnly before the General Assembly of the United Nations. Everyone here is therefore justified in seeing this as a strong commitment. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I could add three comments. First, there is a need for more donations than loans, which are more bilateral than multilateral, and for NGOs to have a larger share than is currently the case. Moreover, despite the decline we have seen in recent years, France remains not the twelfth but the fifth country in the field of official development assistance. It must be recalled from time to time, even if we consider that this is still insufficient. Finally, I fully agree with you, honourable Member, that a very significant complementary effort also requires good control over pilotage. We are also working on this hypothesis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u194	Mr Sylvain Waserman, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u195	Minister, I came down from the perch for a few minutes to draw your attention to the question of French bilateral aid for education, particularly in the countries of French-speaking Africa. Education is not only a fundamental right, but also a gateway to other fundamental rights. In sub-Saharan Africa, in particular, this is a real issue of urgency. For several years, I have felt that the education sector remains the poor parent of French official development assistance. The figures I have been able to obtain – perhaps they are not correct – show that this aid represents only 15% of the total aid and that 70% of this 15% is devoted to the reception of foreign students in France. For example, it is $100 million for Chinese students in France from the ODA budget, about 24 times more than aid for primary education. On the other hand, aid to sub-Saharan Africa would account for only a small third of that share. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM Group and the Republican Group]] Therefore, Minister, beyond the battle of numbers and without wishing to oppose aid between them, in view of the humanitarian, cultural, strategic and economic importance that francophone Africa and the countries most in need of aid represent to us, my question is this: I know that you inherit a situation with complex balances and that it sometimes takes time to reorient them, but are you prepared to work towards a reorientation to increase the share of aid for education and schooling, in the countries most in need, particularly in Africa? If so, are you prepared to associate national representation with these reflections?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u196	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u197	I share, Mr President, much of your comments on the need to strengthen aid for education, particularly in Africa. This is one of the current priorities, which I am sure will be strengthened very soon: first of all, on the occasion of the speech to be delivered by the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou on France's strategy in Africa at the end of this month – it will be a founding element of our African policy; then in February in Dakar, during the demonstration for the relaunch of the policy of the development of education at the global level, in an initiative shared by President Macky Sall and President Macron. We will then have to make the appropriate proposals. I would not like to oppose the incentive to come to France to study with African students and the need to help Africa develop higher education tools. One doesn't go without the other. It is important to be able to attract African students to France, and there are many. We have 2,500 scholarships a year that help them continue their studies in France, in a competitive situation. We are faced with interventions from other countries, which believe it is a good investment to attract students to their territory – countries like Turkey or China, which we have talked about, are doing a lot in this direction. This offensive approach must be pursued, while taking original initiatives to develop higher education in Africa. A few days ago in Paris, together with our Senegalese friends, we developed the concept of a French-Senegalese university in Dakar, which will be a laboratory and an example of what can be done, even if there are already quite significant initiatives in some African countries that have been taken into account. You are right, honourable Member, to stress the importance of strengthening this dimension.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u198	We've finished the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u199	[[At 17.50 a.m., Mr. Sylvain Waserman replaced Mr. Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u200	I now call the appropriations of the mission "Official development assistance", entered in statement B. On these appropriations, I have an amendment before me. I call Mr Le Fur, the Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 1146.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u201	This amendment may seem surprising, since I propose to withdraw appropriations from the budget of the Ministry of Finance and allocate them to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Indeed, we have all said that bilateral and donation must be made and that priority should be given to earmarking our credits to the least developed countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u202	We have to do more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u203	It turns out that the administrative logic is that the bilateral, the least developed countries and the gift are the business of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If we are consistent, we must translate our words into action. We do not change anything about the masses, but we allocate them to the priorities that we unanimously consider – I have listened to all the speakers – as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u204	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u205	This is not a revolution, nor an administrative battle between two ministries – it is not the subject, it would be mediocre –; But it is a question of saying that if we want to make bilateral and donation and give priority to the least developed countries, and perhaps even more so to the Sahelian zone, we must very clearly not only say so, but also give ourselves the means to strengthen the ministry most able to translate this policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u207	Mr President, I find your initiative relevant in substance, because, as I said earlier, it is important to strengthen the bilateral part, the grant part, in relation to the multilateral part, that of loans. You take my word and propose a concrete answer. But, as you know, I consider your amendment to be an appeal amendment rather than an amendment that should take effect now. If that were the case, we would encounter difficulties with the African Development Bank, with our participation in the World Bank or with the increase in loans. We would face other difficulties. Perhaps we would also perversely encourage our friends in Bercy, who carry the 110 programme, to stabilize the overall budget of the mission for which I have responsibility with transfers of appropriations. Bad initiatives should not be initiated, nor should they be rushed into practices that would not be appropriate. On the other hand, rapporteurs, I would be very pleased to have your contributions to help me chart the path that the President of the Republic has asked me to draw. I suggest you make proposals on this. But today, given the impact that this would have on the budget, I ask you to reject the amendment; because I don't know how I can behave with respect to the tools funded by Program 110. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u208	I have before me two amendments to the supplementary article after Rule 49. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1009.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u209	This amendment is very well explained in its summary statement. You are proposed to raise the ceiling for the authorisation of debt conversions, which is now limited to 2.040 billion euros, by 30 million euros to allow more aid to Tunisia. This commitment was made by France during the visit to Tunisia of Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve in April 2017 and reiterated by Prime Minister Édouard Philippe on 5 October. It is a financial effort that is totally part of our support for Tunisian democracy. That is why I hope that we will be able to raise an insufficient ceiling today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u211	I regret that we were aware of this amendment so late, since we received it only yesterday. I know it's been a commitment for some time. It may be a venial sin – and forgiven. On the merits, the Commission could not by definition be questioned. I do not claim to have all the elements, but I have no reason not to trust you, minister. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u212	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 964.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u213	This is an amendment that seeks to request an information report on the operational procedures and actual purposes of AFD in official development assistance. We have a number of questions about how these appropriations are allocated. It is therefore essential for us to better define the aims of AFD, and in particular of its private sector subsidiary, Proparco, with as a reference point the scandal in Côte d'Ivoire of the ETG. I do not have enough time to develop scandals related to a number of subsidiaries, whether in the DRC, Côte d'Ivoire or the West Indies with SOFIAG. But all this creates a climate of opacity. We believe it is necessary to have a report that allows us to clarify how AFD uses public funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u215	Unfavorable opinion. The committee is not against the idea of a report, which in itself is not very questionable. But the statement of reasons seems to me to make a bad trial, in a somewhat inappropriate and unsubstantiated way, at AFD. On the other hand, the report would be entrusted to NGOs which are themselves recipients of development aid, which seems to me to be somewhat contradictory. There is no reason to make a trial of intent to a body that has the merit of existence, being organized and professional. It is also very controlled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u217	I have little to add to the rapporteur's comments; I totally refuse the term opacity. I would also like to point out that the Agency publishes an annual progress report. Soon, the Foreign Affairs Committee of the National Assembly will have before it the preparation of the contract of objectives and means of the AFD for 2018-2021. Each draft and each dossier shall be submitted to the Agency's Board of Directors, where parliamentarians sit. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors regularly publishes an update on how AFD's commitments are mobilised and used. I do not think that an additional report is necessary; I therefore propose to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u218	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u219	I would like to support my point with a few examples. AFD, via its subsidiary Proparco, finance Export Trading Group, ETG, in Côte d'Ivoire. EGT is a multinational, supposed to participate in the development of rice farming but accused of land grabbing practices in Africa. In the West Indies, the Caribbean-Guyane Finance Corporation, SOFIAG, armed arm of AFD in the region, seems to have pushed hundreds of small entrepreneurs, artisans and traders to bankruptcy. In the DRC, AFD is developing the "Supporting Sustainable Forest Management" project, which aims to help forest companies comply with sustainable management principles. Yet in 2015, NGOs – including Greenpeace, Global Witness or Rainforest Foundation UK – denounced this policy of supporting the forestry industry, which is based on erroneous assumptions and leads to disastrous results. I give you these three examples to remind you that we must be cautious and listen to the warnings from NGOs in the countries concerned. Rather than confirming the board's version, a report should ask the questions I ask you – and there are many others. If you want to reassure us and avoid seeing us come back to the burden each time, it would be desirable to adopt this amendment and produce this report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u220	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u221	Member of the European Parliament, NGOs also sit on the Agency's Board of Directors; So let them talk about problems when there are problems! Parliamentarians also sit there and can ask questions on all matters. I encourage them to ask these questions that you have just asked. To obtain the clarification you want, go through these NGOs and parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u222	I call the credits from the financial assistance account "Lending to foreign states", entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u223	We have completed the review of the Official Development Assistance Mission and the Financial Assistance Account "Lending to Foreign States". The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1050.u224	Next sitting, Monday, 13 November, at 3 p.m.: New reading of the 2017 amending finance bill; Continuation of the second part of the finance bill for 2018: credits from the "School education" and "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" missions. The meeting is adjourned.
