ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018 (No. s 269, 316, 313).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u2	In the general debate, Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u3	[[Smile on the benches of the FI group]] Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u4	Madam President, the Minister for Solidarity and Health, the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, for seventy-two years now, the Social Security, this wonderful and generous idea based on solidarity and distribution, born of the fertile and enlightened minds of the National Council of Resistance, is part of our identity. The Minister of Labour Ambrose Croizat was the main architect. A 13-year-old factory worker, a trade union activist and political activist, he fully assessed the whole issue of establishing a general social security scheme that mutualizes a share of the value produced by the work, but above all that entrusts the management of it to the workers themselves. This choice of a society of sharing and solidarity has long been a model for progressive governments around the world. However, it is in this seventy-third year that your government, Madam Minister, is taking a terrible blow to the very essence of what social security is by proposing in 2018 to abolish social contributions to the CSG – the widespread social contribution –, unfair and inefficient taxing, a non-progressive tax that first affects the lowest incomes. Ambrose Croizat had himself warned that if social contributions disappeared in favour of a tax, it would be the end of social security. The social security funding bill for 2018 is perfectly in line with the logic and strategy of previous governments, continuing along the road, taking up the previous policies put in place, notably by the hospital, patient, health and territory law, known as the Bachelot law, and by the law of modernization of our health system, known as the Touraine law, and strengthening the attacks on our social security system. The continuation of these policies has serious consequences not only for professionals, but also for users in a context of social, economic, territorial and institutional inequality. In a time when all health institutions are warning about their working conditions, warning about the lack of resources and worrying about the steady increase in institutional abuse, you are offering savings without taking into account the urgency of their demands. I remind you that in one year, fourteen caregivers died in their workplace. Are you tired of me constantly talking about these fourteen caregivers? But under no circumstances can death be trivialized, much less when it comes to suicide. We do not know the number of caregivers who have ended their lives outside their workplace, nor the number of suicide attempts; we don't have figures on vocation changes and much less on burn-outs. On the other hand, I have a certainty: all of us here have received testimonies from caregivers, patients and families; In all French districts, all healthcare workers in the public and private sectors suffer. Three months ago, our group called you and reminded you of the fourteen basic needs that were not respected. You opened a flash mission on the condition of reception of the elderly in residential institutions for the dependent elderly – the EHPAD – which led us to believe that our arrest had worked. In addition, an information mission will begin in early December. However, no additional means or progress in terms of working and reception conditions are provided for in this PLFSS. Minister, rest assured: I am very attentive. So I noticed the EUR 100 million budget line for the EHPADs, but it corresponds to the creation of 5000 extra beds. I repeat, therefore, that you do not provide additional resources to existing EHPADs. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the poor operating conditions do not concern EHPADs: hospitals, clinics, institutes, in short, all health facilities are affected. The provisions of this bill confirm that the consequences are still the smallest. With a national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – of 2.3% and more than €4 billion in savings on health insurance, after more than 10 billion under previous governments, the political objective is still and always to make our citizens, especially the most modest, bear the weight of the economies. The adjustment of expenditure to revenue in a constant search for productivity gains included in multi-annual contracts is indeed a gift to shareholders in large private groups. The family branch is a good example. It is also clear that mass unemployment weakens the system by the absence of social and employers' contributions. The maintenance of low wages, precariousness and occupational inequalities between women and men also have their share of responsibility in the social protection situation. Colleagues, do you know that in 2017 children bury their moms with cancer? Not for lack of prevention, no: for lack of money. Yes, in 2017, there are disturbing accounts: for example, a woman discovers that she suffers from breast cancer, but her husband being at the end of her rights, she cannot stop working and therefore lose half of her salary to be treated. Therefore, it reduces the time frame for treatment until it finally begins treatment, but it is too late. Yes, in 2017, young children find themselves orphaned because their mothers do not have the financial means to stop working to treat themselves. The unbridled race for financial profitability and the commodification of social needs, including those of health, has led to the economic and social catastrophe. It is necessary to stop administering the liberal potion in the public hospital, to emancipate oneself from the poison that is the imposed accounting logic. Staff should not be the primary target or adjustment variable to reduce our hospitals' budget deficits. The negative consequences of the policy of local hospital groups – the GHT – and the killing of local hospitals must be overcome. In order to combat medical desertification, there is an urgent need to develop a network of public health centres attached to community hospitals, with doctors and salaried staff. This solution would meet two objectives: a fair distribution of human resources in the territory and an end to the excesses of fees through the generalization of the full-paying third party. My colleagues from France are insoubted and I hope so very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u6	It is not telemedicine as a miracle solution to medical desertification that must take precedence: in order to combat this scourge, let us start by getting out of the numerus clausus and financial logics in the field of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u8	Minister, your outpatient medical project is incomplete or even dangerous. Indeed, you ask patients' relatives to manage transportation and provide post-operative surveillance care. Yet you know the dangers of these practices: how can you have the idea of generalizing them? To save money, you're moving a problem. Community-based care services are already at a disadvantage, if not non-existent: who will then provide post-operative care? In addition, you push the 15% of French who do not have a mutual to choose outpatient medicine while increasing the daily fee from 18 euros to 20 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u9	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u10	I would also like to say a word about the extension of the vaccination obligation, of which we are fervent defenders, but which, in both the form and the haste that led to its establishment, raises concern and even rejection among some. After the series of health scandals that we have just been through – I am thinking of the Mediator, the Dépakine, and most recently the Levothyrox – it would have been prudent to take the time of discussion and deepening, especially since the scientific consensus remains random. Furthermore, do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that you are so concerned with prevention in children, that some young children enter paediatric emergencies for severe dehydration following gastroenteritis? Part of the necessary treatment, including infant milk designed for this pathology, costs between 20 euros and 30 euros, not reimbursed. Many parents do not have this amount at their disposal and therefore take risks with their child's health, not because of unconsciousness, but always because of lack of money. Talk to the crying parents in the emergency department, who have the right to a pretty moral lesson, in case they don't feel guilty enough. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] To conclude, ensuring the balance of social accounts is a concern that we share, but not under any conditions: this must not be done at the expense of our fellow citizens, by organizing the reduction of social protections and benefits in a period when, at the same time, the Government makes the unworthy choice to deprive itself of more than 3 billion euros with the end of the ISF – the solidarity tax on wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u11	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, equality is an old French passion. The idea has long been shared across borders, but our country, the republic of France, has been one of its most flamboyant theatres. Equality is not a sad passion, a French jealousy: it is the passion of happy days in sharing. Equality means that the dignity of a woman, of a man, weighs as much as that of each and every other and that every life is worth more than all the gold of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u14	This great French passion could only have been an inaccessible star adorning our imagination. But the idea deserved more than to be contemplated, than to be invoked in order to be better revoked, than to serve as a garland on the pediment of public buildings. It is from this idea that social security was born, from a force springing forth in the face of darkness, drawing on the tenacity of those who, tirelessly, had previously built and conquered spaces and means of solidarity in the face of the accidents of life – a revolutionary idea. Let me quote a man whose word was rare, the minister by whom she was born: a communist metallo called Ambroise Croizat. Pointing to "the uncertainty of the next day which weighs upon all those who live in their work", he shows the will to guarantee "that in all circumstances they will have sufficient income to ensure their family subsistence", for "this is only [...] that all men and women will be able to develop fully their possibilities, their personality". Social security was not obvious, it had to prevail. On the first day, moreover, some began to question her. There is a fundamental reason for this, Ambroise Croizat said: we had the peculiarity of entrusting "to the mass of those concerned the management of their own institution, so that social security is the result not of paternalistic or state guardianship, but of the conscious effort of the beneficiaries themselves". That is the whole meaning of the wage contribution, which is the salary for life. It is the essential link of this adage: from each one according to his means, to each according to his needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u16	You don't assume it in front of you, minister, but that's what you're questioning. To begin with, I wanted to present a plea for social security because, at a time when there are so many uncertainties, the time must not have come to get rid of them. It is from this great story, from this great realization, that we leave. If it has been damaged and weakened, it deserves to be carried further. That is why we must stop organising its inefficiency and its collapse, as we must stop widening its deficit for better, from exemption to exemption, denounce it. Health, more than anything else, must escape from commodification as well as speculation: we therefore need a renewed ambition for the Secu. But we can't find a trace of it. We want to defend it as a common good, a popular tool free from the powers of money and a powerful engine of solidarity among all, faced with the challenges that exist so unevenly. To achieve this, the objectives must be stated: to go towards a 100% reimbursement of health care through health insurance, to have a strong public hospital service, a public drug centre, a community medicine and a policy of prevention that meet the challenges and needs. However, because we have not put in place adequate public policies, shareholders come to punctuate a share of their dividends from this budget. This draft law on the financing of social security for 2018 is the little brother of the budget, since it renews 45 billion euros of exemptions from social contributions – almost 10% of the total budget – and includes the 20 billion euros of the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – the CICE – to which it adds another 4 billion. On the other hand, there is no serious ambition for fraud against employers' contributions, which the Court of Auditors estimates to be nearly EUR 20 billion. In total, you plan to save €5.2 billion on social spending, including €4.2 billion on health, which will only be used to make cheques to those who do not need them. You are asking the hospital, already exsangued, to realize 1.2 billion euros savings. The situation of caregivers and non-caregivers is already unbearable, the material conditions of many public hospitals are unworthy and the clausus numerus very insufficient: we run for disaster. Not content with this, you will again ask the social insureds to hand over the portfolio by increasing the hospital package. As the medical deserts spread, the HHTs are undermining many useful structures in the territories – I am thinking in particular of health centres, which, in an innovative spirit of patient support, perform essential functions, and are very much forgotten of your text. Inequalities in access to care are exploding, as highlighted by the National Council for Policies to Combat Poverty and Social Exclusion underlines their high level. An example? Denial of care, which reaches 30%, and even 50% among young people. We must devote a greater proportion of the wealth produced to our health in solidarity. However, while we are far from being at the forefront on the subject, nothing seems to stop the reduction of health spending. A word of the pass trick that is presented to us – I want to talk about the 1.7-point increase in the CSG, of which 60% of pensioners will be the first victims, continuing to fund what they have already funded throughout their working lives. Public servants will also suffer, even though they have no real visibility of the compensations for this increase. The game of chamboule - everything you do to let believe that you are going to improve the purchasing power does not leave you worried: where will the savings be? If we can agree on a number of measures and hear some of your intentions, the framework within which you lock yourself up will weaken or even wipe them out. Activity pricing – T2A – has to be abandoned: hospitals have been forced to become merchants of medical procedures and to abandon care needs to replace them with a blind restraint device. Yet the goal of healing should be the main compass. In terms of prevention, we need to do better. As such, the disappearance of the health, safety and working conditions committees – the CHSCT –, if confirmed, will pose a serious problem. You are right to say, Madam Minister, that health insurance is not there to deal with the consequences of unworthy managerial practices. We have to tackle burn-outs, eliminateable diseases, especially in the company where we sometimes produce them knowingly, just because it makes more money: we have to do it with a fierce will. Unfortunately, for lack of funding, tools to combat these phenomena are disappearing – I think, in my constituency, of the Association for the Management of Eliminatable Diseases, the APCME. We mustn't solve this. Prevention for children and young people is also a decisive issue. It was, for example, a mistake to tackle oral prevention. We must also pay great attention to research and its development, which must be driven not by financial profitability, but by the will to cure and cure. We need to invest more public money, especially in research on paediatric cancers, a subject on which many associations of tested parents are mobilizing and which still refuse to resolve themselves to impotence. Finally, it is necessary to act in favour of persons with disabilities so that they finally enjoy sufficient rights. Many of our fellow citizens in this situation have alerted me, among other things, to the difficulties encountered in asserting their rights, to the weakness of their allowances, and also to the injustice that they face when living together. There are considerable forces in this country to meet the challenge of solidarity in health. The logic of disconnection and sometimes of blasting which has been at work for years, and which will be pushed further, Madam and Mr Ministers, by your budget, is in line with what we should do. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] According to Ambrose Croizat, "social progress is a continuous creation". If it could inspire you, we would not conceive any jealousy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u17	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u18	Madam President, the Minister for Health and Solidarity, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the President of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, after the examination of the state budget last week, the time has come to consider the first five-year social security financing bill. At the outset, Madam Minister, I say to you: you will always find us at your side whenever it comes to better controlling health spending, provided that it does not affect the quality of the care we have the chance to receive. You will also find us at your side whenever it comes to better controlling social protection expenditure, provided that French and French people, especially those who need it most, continue to benefit from a protection that is still very effective today. We will have the opportunity to return to these issues in our discussions. I will therefore stick this evening to the chapter on family policy, and in particular to sections 25 to 27 of this bill. Our family policy is envied in many countries. If it is to be preserved, while ensuring that it constantly adapts to changes in society, its future gives us some cause for concern. Indeed, it has just suffered five years of successive plans: lowering the ceiling on the family quotient, taxing the increase for large families, increasing the transfer fees, and reducing family allowances, which have caused a fatal blow to the universality of our family policy. It is a real baton of families: in five years, they have been deprived of more than 4 billion euros. I confess to you, minister: I did not expect that one of your first decisions would be to hit that policy again. As I said last week, during the examination of the first part of the finance bill, while you are proposing the creation of a parliamentary mission on family policy, you have preceded the conclusions by lowering from 15 euros per month, as of April 1, 2018, the amount of the young child's care benefit – PAJE. What are the reasons for this choice? With this decision, EUR 500 million will still be withdrawn from the smallest families and EUR 250 million from the middle families. In addition, 10% of families who can now touch her will lose the benefit. Others will see their performance divided by two, while the EYAP is a pillar of aid for reconciliation between family and working life, a conciliation that we must encourage so that all women who wish to do so can have a professional activity. This decision is all the more incomprehensible as we are now seeing a sharp decrease in the number of day-care places and an impoverishment in the number of child care modes. This is likely to result in a decline in the employment rate of women who are forced to stop working due to the lack of appropriate childcare. I regret that last week the Minister of Economy and Finance rejected our amendment on this subject, even though your own majority was making the same proposal. Finally, the Commission rejected its own amendment, which, like ours, aimed at extending the family tax credit – the CIF – to self-employed workers, although this measure would have enabled the creation of private nursery places to be revived. To compensate for this decrease in the YCAP, you are taking advantage of the increase in the free choice supplement of the mode of custody, which appears in Article 25, by justifying this measure with a very clearly assumed choice: to help single-parent families more. It is true that these families face difficulties and we must help them. However, as I explained to you ten days ago in committee, the poorest families deprived of the complement, because of the award criteria. These are all incomprehensible decisions, even though the family branch is one of the only branches that are in balance and that you say you want to wait for the results of the parliamentary mission to adapt your choices. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LC group]] Madam Minister, last Sunday you said that in terms of family policy you had no taboos. However, as you have also seen, for the first time since the Second World War France has recorded a decline in the birth rate – even the second consecutive decline. I'm not one of those people who thinks women make children to receive allowances. If that were the case, it would be dramatic. On the other hand, I am convinced that some people give up having children because of lack of resources and lack of a suitable mode of care for the continuation of their professional activity. Our family policy must preserve this freedom of choice. Family policy is not social policy: it is taxation that ensures the fair distribution of wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u19	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the great balances of our social system are now being undermined by profound changes. Social policy cannot be reduced to a few adjustments of circumstances, as it is, far beyond that, the condition of national cohesion. What is at the heart of any major social policy is the solidarity and the level of solidarity that exists between the members of a society: it ensures its strength. It is therefore both the answer to many of the ills suffered by the social body but also the means of ensuring its unity. This first five-year Social Security Financing Bill must set the course that the Government wishes to set for our social policy. Madam Minister, you have integrated these guidelines to make this text an ambitious project: it aims to make our system fairer, more supportive and more innovative. If the members of the MODEM Group therefore support you unreservedly, they would also like to make proposals on a number of subjects which they consider essential: family policy, the protection of modest pensioners and farmers, the fight against medical desertification, the improvement of the prevention system and health innovation, in particular through the deployment of telemedicine. The members of the MODEM Group are first and foremost very attached to family policy: it must remain a policy of solidarity for the nation. It was not designed to help people in difficulty, but rather was designed to ensure that all families, regardless of their social situation, were treated equally. This obviously does not mean that other mechanisms must not help the most disadvantaged, but simply that all children and families in our country, regardless of their social or territorial origin, must be supported in the same way: it is the condition for France to remain a young and dynamic country on a demographic level. It is for this reason that we systematically denounced with force, during the previous quinquennium, the attacks on the founding principles of this policy. I refer to the two successive declines in the family quotient, the decrease in the EYAP for high incomes, or the adjustment of the amount of family allowances according to income, decided in 2014. There would be a logic, minister, I would even say a greatness, that our country treats all children in the same way, whatever they may be. We will be particularly vigilant about this issue, so as not to give up what has been the subject of a broad consensus for fifty years. However, our position is not dogmatic. That is why we will take our full part in the forthcoming consultation, and we will be able to propose, in order to preserve our family policy, for the benefit of all. With regard to the protection of modest pensioners, the Government had decided, in order to improve the purchasing power of assets, to reduce their social contributions, in return for an increase in the CSG. While the members of the MODEM Group support the philosophy of this reform, they would like particular attention to be paid to the situation of the most modest pensioners. That is why we propose to raise the threshold from which pensioners will be exempt from the CSG increase, so that 50% of them are not penalized. We must also protect the purchasing power of farmers, hard hit by successive crises. The reductions in contributions they have received in order to strengthen the competitiveness of this sector must be maintained. This is necessary to reduce the burden on farmers and to bring our agriculture to the level of our European neighbours. In this regard, will the reform of the CSG, as planned, result in a fall in purchasing power for 40% of farmers? Will not the increase in the CSG that they will have to bear be fully offset? That's not acceptable. In addition, the Modem Group will support initiatives taken by the Government to address the challenges facing the provision of care, including emergency care in sub-medicalized territories. In this context, further development of telemedicine should be considered. It must be based on a medical project that responds to priorities and needs of the population of a territory and health professionals, while integrating into a care path. We hope that there will be no regulatory hindrance to the deployment of telemedicine to allow partners the freedom to carry out their projects. In addition, the Government has made a strong commitment to an inclusive society, mobilizing all ministries. We fully support this essential direction. With regard to the recognition of disability, there is currently an inequality in the treatment of persons with disabilities in different territories, intimately linked to the lack of homogeneity of departmental housing listings for persons with disabilities – the CDMH. In a logic of harmonization of pathways, a national tool would simplify the assessments and reduce their variability, but also improve the timing and quality of the support by increasing the competence of the professionals involved as well as fluidised network work. Finally, we hope that a strong mobilisation will help to combat rare diseases. They cover a total of 5% of the French population and 99% of them do not have curative treatment. The care of the sick is very special, marked by an important medico-social dimension. While two rare disease plans have already been implemented, the launch of a third plan, which would focus on patients and their families by facilitating the link between health care and medico-social care, seems to us necessary. However, in a logic of off-shoring, a broader plan could both meet this need, combat diagnostic wandering and accelerate the development of treatments for a greater number of diseases. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a social policy worthy of this name must in no way oppose the French among themselves. The principle of solidarity is essential because it must overcome the injustices of life. At the same time, we must ensure the universality of rights because they are the guarantee of our social pact. I said in opening remarks: to speak of social policy is not to play with the figures, it is not to adjust upwards or downwards a particular scale, a particular rate. It is first and foremost to know what society we want to live in and after us, our children. It is also about what principles and values should guide our actions, and it is not more just, stronger, or more necessary than those who promote solidarity between all the men and women who make our national community. We form a society at a time when we feel connected to each other, when our neighbour does not remain indifferent to us, because it is through him that we can overcome the difficulties, the obstacles. But this so tenuous bond can easily be broken up according to the malfeasance that we might sometimes commit while thinking about doing well. This bond is also the one that assures every being his dignity in a hard and complex world, sometimes overwhelming. Let us show ourselves more caring and caring, do not make us the adversaries of any class, to denigrate or raise it. No more than one chooses the place where one is born, one decides to one day be confronted with the difficulties of life, whether it be failure or illness. The policy we are debating today places itself above these considerations because it is a work of civilization, of those who seek to hold together elements first and foremost different. One recognizes precisely the value of a civilization to the degree of solidarity and concern of the other that it distills among its members.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u21	We can do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u22	[[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] Let us never lose sight of him in the discussions we will have this week.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u23	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u24	[[Smile]] What about me? I don't have anything?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u25	Madam President, the Minister for Solidarity and Health, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the President of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the draft finance law and the draft law on the financing of social security are always a strong act which translates the political guidelines of a government into figures and concrete provisions. This is all the more the case at the beginning of the legislature: the budgetary choices of a Government, supported by the majority, at this particular moment impress a mark that is long-lasting in the minds. That is little to say, minister, minister, that you were expected on this Social Security funding bill. Was he going to break with the previous logics? Will it give impetus to the transformation of our social protection model? Would it encourage new initiatives to modernize our health care system and make it more effective? In all these areas, it must be noted that we are still far from the point of view. This draft law on the financing of social security strongly hits the middle classes by increasing the CSG, but it does not reflect the commitment to structural reforms necessary to offer better service to the social insured, and to ensure a lasting balance in the accounts of social security. It was also slow to implement the Government's intentions in the areas of social protection, pension schemes or health policy. This transitional social security funding bill obliges us to take note of laudable intentions, interesting inflections, unfortunately lacking tangible translation in the figures. For the time being, it uses the same accounting and budgetary tools as the previous ones. In fact, the health sector has not been mistaken, many of them finding it disappointing on the whole. The Government is pleased to note the reduction of the 2017 deficits in line with previous budgets, and the pursuit of this goal by 2018. For our part, we do not lose sight of the fact that deficits have been reduced at the cost of drastic and unbalanced measures affecting health spending over the past few years. Drastic, because successive taxation has affected the middle classes and pensioners, and major principles such as the universality of family allowances have been called into question. Unbalanced, because they have been particularly focused on the drug sector, without major structural reforms being carried out around the provision of care in the territories, or the articulation between city medicine and the hospital. This Social Security funding bill for 2018 does not give a strong impetus. Thus, as of 2018, it does not carry out the reduction of the labour cost, which is expected by our companies, in order to regain the competitiveness margins that are essential to them in the context of international competition. It is true that the Government promises us this long-lasting reduction in charges from 2019, but the postponement of the drop in charges to the following year is a ritual to which companies have become accustomed for too many years. Furthermore, we do not agree with your choice to increase the CSG because it penalizes the middle classes, particularly pensioners and civil servants, even though we know of course that there are ways of compensating them. As you know, we have been defending for several years, and consistently, in every review of the social security finance and financing bills, a reduction in wage and employer contributions offset by an increase in VAT, which has a much wider base than that of the CSG. The use of VAT also makes it possible to use imported products to finance our social protection. We have, on this point, a divergence of approach and analysis that determines our appreciation of this Social Security funding bill. We regret that this project will once again bring a considerable part of the measures to regulate health expenditure on the drug, with almost €1.5 billion in effort on volumes and prices. We also regret that this draft budget does not concern itself with the long-term balance of our pension system by taking the necessary steps now to preserve the future of our pension systems. We will present proposals to you in the course of the examination of this text, in particular concerning special regimes. We are also concerned that the increase in the hospital package, to understand that it is on the bottom, will in fact affect patients with modest incomes. With regard to the reform of the social protection system for the self-employed, which integrates them into the general system, we will pay particular attention to the fact that this connection is carried out without further dysfunctions, like those which the self-employed could have known with the creation of the RSI – the social system of the self-employed. Again, in order to avoid this pitfall, it seems essential to follow up on the reform involving parliamentarians. We will be particularly vigilant in guaranteeing the rights of those concerned and ensuring equal benefits. The debate in committee confirmed that the question of the future of supplementary pensions for self-employed workers remains a question, since they are not currently affected by the shift towards the general scheme. With regard to health spending, we expect much more decisive measures to carry out a major policy of prevention. We understand that between compulsory vaccination and the increase in the price of tobacco, you wanted, from this PLFSS, to take measures emblematic of your willingness to engage in a more active policy on prevention. However, they cannot sum it up on their own, and we regret that long-term measures are not being taken now. Our group, however, takes note, Madam Minister, of the ambitious measures that will be taken, as you have confirmed, by the national health strategy in this area. We hope that, within this framework, the Government will be able to welcome the proposals of parliamentarians to develop, in the long term, a true culture of good behaviour that allows each of our fellow citizens to maintain their health capital intact as long as possible. The possible creation of an ONDAM dedicated to prevention, for example, is one of them. On the other hand, we regret that once again the PLFSS does not reflect a more decisive effort to combat medical desertification. While the development of health homes, telemedicine and tele-expertise are measures that go in the right direction, they alone cannot respond to the human challenge of medical demography and the attractiveness of the liberal mode of exercise. On another subject, we also acknowledge, Madam Minister, your willingness to change the logic behind the remuneration of health professionals and health facilities, and to introduce a kind of race for activity. Their remuneration must be less based on the act of care and more on the overall care of the patient and the pathologies that he may present in the long term. We note with interest the directions taken with the articles which set out a framework for experimentation for innovation in the health system, the acceleration of the deployment of telemedicine, the relevance and quality of care. This type of measure should be the focus of the PLFSS effort to release energy...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u26	Ah! Free the energies! It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u27	... and trust the health actors in the territories, who often carry innovative and responsible initiatives. More broadly, a real health path needs to be defined, together with a reflection on the provision of care, in particular on the organisation of the supply of health facilities in the territories. It is essential to reshape the provision of care, in line with health needs as close as possible to the areas of life, if we want sustainable social protection at the financial level and a modernized health system capable of meeting the needs of everyone. The adequacy of care provision to the demographic and health realities of the territories is, for our group, one of the key issues for the future and the quality of our health system. That is why we reiterate our proposal to better articulate ONDAM with the realities of the territories by setting regional health insurance expenditure targets. Otherwise, it is urgent to specify that the funds from the Regional Intervention Fund are clearly intended to correct the health inequalities suffered by the populations in the different territories of our regions. As you can see, much remains to be done and this PLFSS does not seem to us to appreciate the extent of the arrangements that would be urgently needed. We recognize the relevance of a number of health spending guidelines, although they remain timid and experimental in nature. The PLFSS is locked in pure accounting regulation and unable to draw up perspectives informed by structural reforms. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on some benches of the LR group]] It is on the basis of the forthcoming debate and the follow-up to its amendments that the Constructive Group will determine its final vote on the Social Security Financing Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u28	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u29	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has just presented its ambitions with regard to the financing of social security. That will not surprise you, minister: we are disappointed. Disappointed, because we harbour the secret hope that the Government will continue our fight against unequal access to care. However, immediately after its formation, it returned to the generalised paying third party, preferring the term "generalizable paying third party", i.e. optional, therefore null. We are disappointed because to the general surprise, you announce the increase of the hospital fee of 2 euros,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u30	Why "to the general surprise"? We're not surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u31	... while you know perfectly well that it is the poorest who will be the first affected, especially those who do not have mutuals. Disappointed again, because you have targeted retirees, with an increase in the CSG for all those affecting more than 1289 euros per month, or 7 million people – would it be the most affluent French people that should be taxed to distribute purchasing power to the assets? In addition, I note that a pensioner is considered to be easy by this government if he receives 1289 euros per month while the social minimums can reach 900 euros. Don't you think the gap is too narrow between a modest retiree and what you consider to be an easy retiree? Disappointed, Minister, because Mr. Macron's great campaign promise is not being met: hearing aids, dental prosthetics and glasses will not be 100% reimbursed. Disappointed again, because the reform of the RSI is carried out without any real debate, in the context of a text that has nothing to do with it. I would point out that the PLFSS relates to the control of social and health expenditure. However, the abolition of the RSI and its endorsement of the general scheme concern the organisation and management of the self-employed scheme. We therefore call for a full text to be presented to discuss this reform. I could continue for a long time, Madam Minister, but I may end with this: we are disappointed because you had an opportunity to make a gesture for the most modest. After taking measures for the ultra-rich last week, this week, you had to promote the Jupitian "at the same time" and reach out to those who need it most: the precarious.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u32	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u33	But it is not, and once it is not customary, in your program and on the right and on the left, you forget the left. This is proof of the measures that you are proposing to take to combat the fraud of allowances, which your government has set up as a major national cause, even though it is recognised as minimal. Why not accompany these measures with the automaticity of social minimums, i.e. the direct opening of access to rights? This would allow the poorest to simplify their requests for assistance. But you will not, because it has a cost, that of social and health justice, which is clearly not the priority of this government. Believe it, I'm sorry, because I'm afraid your government, ma'am, is more committed to fighting benefit fraud than to fighting tax fraud. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] So, to conclude, to my fellow walkers I say this: what is the meaning of medicine? It should be to protect human beings, without ideology or calculations. The irony is beautiful because, for the time being, you are offering us the social injustice and the law of the strongest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u34	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u35	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I recall this essential definition: "everyone contributes according to his or her means, everyone receives according to his or her needs" and "revenues must adapt to needs, not the other way around." This is the very essence of social security, as presented at its birth in 1945. However, after the Labour Code, you are breaking through this great principle of national solidarity through the Social Security funding bill. Despite your denials, this is a budget of extreme rigour that does not say its name. It looks strangely like a masked reform of social security. Therefore, in view of the gravity of the choices, I wonder: where does the crew of Captain Macron of France "mad boat" want to take us? Where's the fraternity? Which France are you drawing? Serving the rich by "totochant" the poorest, this is your ideological line.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u36	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u38	More and more, two worlds are emerging, creating suffering, despair and anger every day that passes. You only work for the first world, the world of money, the world from above. You ignore, you despise the second world: the abandoned; those who triment, who struggle every day to feed themselves, pay their bills, ensure the education of the children; those who simply try to live or survive; the world from below; the world of people who are nothing; this abandoned France. [[Murmures on the benches of the REM group]] There is France from above, your friends, and France from below, the others, a France increasingly driven by your policy in the basement of the social scale. Poor of us who are nothing to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u39	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u40	Each of your actions goes in this direction: the decrease in the early childhood care benefit; reform of housing subsidies; hunting suspected fraudsters for social benefits; the increase in the CSG for pensioners. On the other hand, in the law for confidence in political life, you decided on August 9th to abolish the CSG for MPs and senators. Where's justice? Is that true moralization? You're going to tell me that you're raising the minimum age. But your analysis is wrong: in fact, it is only the antechamber of the voluntary retention of many of our fellow citizens below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u41	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u43	To hide these low blows, you talk about increased purchasing power and better days in employment. We are not fooled: this will not come under your reign, because your method of rebuilding a new France is bad. On the grounds of reform, you remove the ladder before you have built the stairs; You inject poison, that of social misfortune, with the promise that you will find the antidote. It's obviously deceit, abuse of weakness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u45	Faced with your project, the group La France insoumée will propose amendments, without too many illusions, alas! But we will insist because we believe that every citizen has a place in this society. No one can be left on the edge of the road. You know where to find wealth for a better distribution, to give people well-being. You have to want it again. It is this humanity, this fraternity, which escapes you and which you must find. To do this, return to the basis of true politics, that of going to meet women and men, in cities and neighbourhoods, in towns and villages. Don't be afraid to talk to them, to listen to them, to understand them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u46	Oh! That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u47	Yes, ma'am, to understand them. Just learn to love them again, to respect them. France will fight your policy with the utmost firmness, but always with respect. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on some benches of the NG group]] In conclusion, I will quote Victor Hugo: "It is from the hell of the poor that the paradise of the rich is made." My father batou mad oussa ban na moved there anou? Ziskakan? This world is not ours, we want a common future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u48	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u49	[[Smile]] What about me?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u50	[[Same movements]] Mr Lassalle will have to speak at some point in the evening, but I will still use the five minutes at my disposal. Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the risk of repeating the observation that has already been made, I want to share with you the health diagnosis of the territory that I represent, Normandy: abandonment of care, progressive occupational diseases, addictive behaviour that often go hand in hand with the crisis, medical deserts that are advancing, sub-dowed regions that would fully justify rebalancing measures. The observation remains implacable. Instead of taking into account these health realities, confirmed by all health observatories, your budget proposes to change everything so that nothing – or almost anything – changes for the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u52	You're announcing that you want to get out of the business pricing system. On this subject, we could have followed you without seeing it clear, however, on how to finance the health routes, the content of these routes, the packages or the budgets for hospitals. I have in mind a large number of hospitals that have followed your recommendations: reduction of the average length of stay, development of the ambulance, strengthening of the useful activity – although today you tell us that medical acts were not legitimate –, tightening of screws, mutualisation within the framework of hospital groups of territory, abolition of duplicates. Despite all this, these hospitals are being imposed by the regional health agencies, which are real tools for rationing public health spending, contracts for returning to balance that are increasingly impossible to maintain and budgetary recommendations that plunge them and their staff into a burn-out situation. And there you propose, in your Social Security financing bill, to achieve an additional €1.2 billion in cure. If we really get out of activity pricing, that would translate into numbers: additional means would take into account the realities I mentioned. But this budget only brings rigour to our fellow citizens to whom you impose an increase in the hospital package. We would like to know how much the measure will cost those – many, you know – who do not have mutuals. How high do we want to place the response to the health and social reality of the country? That's the whole question. When one presents a PLFSS that does not incorporate the 4% per year natural increase in health spending due to aging and the increase in chronic diseases, the account is not there. In our view, this denial of reality is unacceptable, when we know the lack of hospital staff, the situation of EHPADs, which, weakened by the limited resources of the departments and by untenable tripartite agreements, will suffer more as a result of the abolition of assisted contracts, and when we know that the hospital response is declining in medium-sized cities and rural territories. Do you measure the consequences of such a situation, in terms of giving up the care and prevention you claim to want to develop? For spending, it's strict; for recipes, it's a gift – at least for some. I'm not developing. In keeping with the spirit of the finance law, your budget multiplies tax gifts. In this budget, there is no heavy translation to come out of pricing. It's homeopathy, when you need shock treatment. In 2018, you will have to rely on the placebo effect. The same applies to medical demography. Did the incentives push back the medical deserts? Are health homes full of doctors? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u53	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on several benches of the NG group]] There are other ways. That is why the Communist Group will vigorously defend its amendments. By listening to our argument, you will understand that there are alternatives to the finance law and the austerity PLFSS that you are defending.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u55	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u56	[[Smile]] And Mr. Lassalle, he's not talking?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u57	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, continuing the ambitious work carried out by the finance bill, this evening we are beginning to consider the Social Security funding bill. This first five-year Social Security budget reflects a large number of campaign commitments and, I would like to point out, is inextricably linked to the finance bill that our House passed today. These two texts lay the foundations for a profound reform aimed at the liberation of our economy and the protection of the various components of our society. I am thinking here of the most fragile. As the leader of this bill for the Republic on the move, I am particularly pleased and proud to begin examining such an important piece of legislation for the future of our country. Social security is at the heart of our model of society. It is this protection "from the uncertainty of the next day" mentioned in the statement of reasons for the 1945 Orders. It is a reflection of the State's commitments to reducing inequalities and national solidarity. Within our young group The Republic on the move, we all share the same commitment to this imperative of social justice, and it is with this demand that we defend today the courageous project presented to us by the Government. This text, ladies and gentlemen, is based on three key concepts: responsibility, solidarity and transformation. Responsibility first, because we do not have, we no longer have the right to endorse insidious budgets, built on fragile assumptions that place the risks associated with the slippage of our social finances on the part of all our fellow citizens. The Court of Auditors further noted the uncertainties and shortcomings of the previous PLFSS, which, although reducing the deficit, was based on many insinuities and accounting tricks. If the efforts under the former majority are real, they are far from sufficient, and too short-term to ensure the sustainability of our social protection system. That is why I am looking forward to today's strong, transparent and sustainable Social Security budget, which allows us to build on the lowest level of deficit in more than 15 years and finally affirm that the social debt will be extinguished by 2024. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to all of us towards future generations, which the Republic on its way, through the profound rejuvenation that it embodies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u58	Our band, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u59	... refuses to consider as the adjustment variable of our current choices. Responsibility always, which allows us, despite a forced budgetary context, to take the path of solidarity towards the people who need it most. Solidarity is for me the other key word of this PLFSS which makes clear choices for the most fragile. It is a budget that makes the choice to help those who suffer and fight, often alone. Our support goes first and foremost to single-parent families, one third of whom now live below the poverty line. I'm talking about 3 million children, at home, in France, in 2017. We cannot tolerate it. With the addition of the supplement of free choice of the mode of care, a person raising his children alone and paid to the SMIC will see the aid to which he can claim to increase by almost 140 euros per month. At the same time, we harmonize the scale and ceilings of the young child's allowance with those of the family supplement, in the interests of better readability, but also – it would be absurd not to assume it – to finance our choices in favour of the most fragile families. Our support then goes to the elderly, with an unprecedented increase in the minimum old age, which will increase to a total of 100 euros per month by 2020,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u60	But stay below the poverty line!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u61	... and the financing of 4,500 places in EHPAD, 700 places for day reception and 500 places for temporary accommodation, always for our seniors. Responsibility and solidarity also by an ambitious public health policy, symbolised by two flagship measures of this PLFSS: the increase in tobacco taxation and the extension of the obligation to the eleven vaccines in the vaccination calendar. Our discussions on this subject will, I know, be lively and lively, but I want to say right now that our common responsibility, once again, is immense. At a time when disinformation is rampant on social networks, where biased and obscurantist discourses are relayed without any filter, our duty is also to do pedagogy on this courageous measure that will prevent deaths every year. The extension of the obligation will allow us to reach the 95 per cent vaccination coverage recommended by WHO, that is, the rate necessary to protect the entire population, even those who are not lucky enough to be vaccinated because of their state of health. That's also our responsibility to the most fragile. With regard to prevention, the Republic on the move will also defend an important amendment on the taxation of sweet drinks, the consumption of which promotes overweight and obesity. Finally, this PLFSS is that of transformation and ambition for our social model. It is – and it is not a formula – the PLFSS of the payroll. It will see a major campaign commitment realized: the reduction of social contributions by employees and self-employed workers, for a direct gain in purchasing power. I'm talking about an increase in net wages, the one that goes into the employee's pocket and allows him to live every day. Of course, these unprecedented tax reliefs oblige us to find the resources to finance our social protection. But – I say this especially to some right-wing colleagues who would have preferred a blind and unfair increase in VAT –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u62	It's the CSG that's unfair!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u63	... the choice of the CSG makes it possible to take into account the contributing capacities of each to finance national solidarity. This is a major paradigm shift in the funding of our social protection system. Transformation still with the abolition of the social regime of the self-employed, this RSI catastrophe, so criticized since its creation, to the left as well as to the right, but that no one before us had undertaken to transform so radically. Ambition and responsibility finally with the setting of an ONDAM at 2.3%, which devotes an additional €4.4 billion to health spending and makes the choice of a more innovative and efficient health model. In 2017, it finally enshrines the entry into the common law of telemedicine care and sets an ambitious framework for innovative experiments in health. Of course, I do not forget that this PLFSS is presented at the same time as the plan for equal access to care in the territories, which also carries a new strategy to end territorial inequalities in health. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Responsibility, solidarity and transformation: for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the opening of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u64	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u65	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, our House is called upon to discuss, discuss and vote on its first Social Security Financing Bill for this 15th Parliament. It is an important budget, a budget of the daily life of the French, with the sickness branch, which allows them to treat themselves, with the family branch, which allows our birth to follow an upward trajectory, and with the retirement branch. Our assembly, which was largely renewed last June, is part of the time. We must never forget where social security comes from. It is closely linked to our Republic, having its origins since the Workers' Accidents Act of 1898. Voulue in its present form during the post-war period, born from the work of the Conseil national de la Résistance, the French Social Security had to be, according to the explanatory statement of the order of 4 October 1945, "the guarantee given to everyone that in all circumstances he will have the necessary means to ensure his subsistence and that of his family under decent conditions". According to the text, "the ultimate goal to be achieved is the realization of a plan that covers the entire population of the country against all the factors of insecurity". Universal social security is the security of all thanks to the solidarity of the French and French. It's not just a welfare window, it's a real living together. It cannot be dissociated from our Republic of which it is a constituent. The universality of social security is a fundamental principle in our country, as is – or rather was – the universality of family allowances. Allow me to have a digression on this important subject. The first abortion was given during the previous quinquennium, when the allowances were adjusted according to the income of the family, while each child must obtain the same support from national solidarity. From now on, as you said, Madam Minister, the debate is open on the total end of the universality of family policy. It is neither a totem nor a taboo, but a French pride, a pride that allows us to have one of the best birth rates in Europe. Let us hold the debate until the end: since there is neither totem nor taboo about universality and a breach has been opened in family policy, will you, will we tackle the universality of social security? Are you going, depending on the income, to pay more or less for the health care of the French population?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u66	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u67	Taking this path is dangerous and we will remain extremely vigilant in maintaining the universality of these policies, which make our country the best.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u68	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u69	Although we must always remember where our policies come from, we must also and above all look to the future. This is the purpose of section 35 of your bill, which sets out a framework for experimentation for innovation in the health system. The medical sector must evolve, just as our society evolves. It must adapt to societal and medical changes. We need to better answer the question of medical desertification, of which the Vosges department is a victim. This must be accompanied by necessary budgetary control. This mastery is not a big word. It is only through it that we can ensure the sustainability of our care system. To facilitate experiments, so that the care policy comes not only from the top but also from below, from the ground, is interesting. However, experiments must be followed up by action and reactivity, as well as real follow-up, through frequent evaluations. The main measure of your text is also one of the main campaign promises of candidate Emmanuel Macron. In order to restore purchasing power to the French, you intend to remove certain social contributions and replace them with an increase of the CSG of 1.7 points. First of all, this 1.7-point increase actually represents a 22% increase in the CSG. Then, although you're giving back purchasing power to some of the people who need it, another party will have to pay the bill. The main losers will be pensioners. I come to our pension system and its general balance. According to the 2017 report of the Pension Guidance Board, the balance of the system, all schemes together, is expected to be reached, at best, in the 2040s, rather than in the 2020s, as originally planned. This deterioration is due in particular to a revision of the population forecasts, a reduction in the annual migration balance, or an increase in life expectancy. While candidate Macron had promised to reform the pension system in full, to move on to a point system, what will happen as a result of these new forecasts? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you will understand, minister, we are approaching this PLFSS in an open but demanding manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u70	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u71	Madam President, Minister, Minister, President of the Committee on Social Affairs, rapporteur-general, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, with the commitment of the second stage of the examination of the budget texts for 2018, we are giving life, on the occasion of the examination of this draft law on the financing of social security, to the Government's announced objective of giving the French back purchasing power and ensuring the protection of the most fragile among us. This is a strong promise that we have supported in our electoral campaigns. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is satisfied with the general balance of this text, which makes it possible to restore ambition to our response to the great challenges facing us, such as the ageing of the population, equal access to care and openness to new organisations benefiting from the contributions of technology – I am naturally thinking of telemedicine. It is in this way that we can ensure the necessary solidarity that must connect the members of a society and enable its unity. On the part relating to the revenues of social security administrations, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will propose several amendments aimed at strengthening social justice and adopting measures in the field of public health. To strengthen the effect of the proposed reforms in terms of social justice, first of all, by adapting the 1.7-point increase in the CSG to exempt half of the most modest pensioners, or by ensuring an increase in purchasing power of those who are already exempt from the housing tax. This is an essential requirement for every Frenchman to benefit from the measures proposed by the Government. That is why we also propose that the reduction in sickness and maternity contributions for farmers should be sustained at 3.04%, so that they are not the only active ones who do not receive full compensation for the increase in the CSG. Secondly, we intend to take ambitious measures in the area of public health, by making the taxation of agri-food products more incentiveful and efficient. In this way, we propose a tightening of taxation on sweet drinks, the additional revenues of which will make it possible to detract from drinking water and thus encourage the substitution of sweet products with better drinks for health, while preserving the purchasing power of households, especially the most modest ones, since these drinks are cheaper. We also propose the abolition of the tax on flours, which is inefficient and, moreover, has a cost of management and recovery among the highest in French taxation, while penalizing our bakeries and pastries, these typical and indispensable shops in our city centres. The aim of this measure is to revitalize the economy of the territorial fabric, which is so in need of these local businesses. On the other hand, Madam Minister, with regard to family policy, we cannot hide our concern about future debates. In the continuation of the amendments tabled on the finance bill, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will defend a voluntary, ambitious and powerful family policy...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u72	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u73	... to safeguard the prevailing consensus that every child is a wealth for the future of the country. Let us not confuse social policy, whose aim is to compensate for inequalities, with family policy, which is a policy for all, a policy for the country, regardless of origin. In line with the status quo on raising the family quotient ceiling, which we have accepted pending a broader reflection on this issue, we will ask for the application of a status quo regarding the early childhood care benefit – the YCAP. We believe that it is essential to preserve the existing measures and not to make any further cuts until the beginning of a comprehensive reflection on family policy. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion on the Social Security funding bill must be an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to a policy of solidarity and ambition that can benefit everyone and address inequalities. We firmly believe that this bill, as well as the proposals we make, will meet the demands that I mentioned earlier, those of our fellow citizens, and on which we have committed ourselves. In this regard, we firmly believe in the virtues of dialogue, the surest way to achieve a truly inclusive policy. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] In conclusion and, if I dare to say so, as a compass for our work, I would remind you that the Republic we cherish so much is indivisible, democratic, secular and, of course, social.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u74	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u75	Madam President, Minister, Minister, President of the Committee on Social Affairs, rapporteur-general, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on the financing of social security carries out many important reforms, unfortunately carried out at the same time. Some of them, such as the increase in the CSG, will directly and significantly affect the purchasing power of tens of millions of our citizens. It is more than regrettable that the method adopted for so many important reforms is the lack of concerted action. In addition, minister, minister, beware of the blind spots, because there are real people, forgotten women and men. Let us first mention the 1.7-point increase in the CSG. As we know, many of the public have been forgotten by this measure decided without consultation. Pensioners, first of all, will see their CSG increase by 1.7 points on January 1, 2018. You state that this increase will be offset by the end of the housing tax,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u76	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u77	... while it will only be fully effective in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u79	Above all, the 600,000 people living in retirement homes will not benefit from the gradual reduction in the housing tax, as they do not currently pay it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u80	It'll be the stuffing turkeys!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u81	As a result of their mobilization, you have recognized a blind spot on this issue and inserted an article 3 bis into the finance bill to try to pass on the discount to people living in private non-profit EHPADs. It is to be forgotten, however, that almost 225,000 of our seniors live in independent public retirement homes, and that these institutions are already exempt from the housing tax. For all of these individuals, therefore, there will be no upward compensation for the CSG.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u82	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u83	This is a very well-prepared reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u84	Another dead end of this reform is that disabled pensioners, for whom the increase in the CSG, which will be increased to 8.3%, will not be compensated. As of January 1, 2018, they will have to suffer a significant and even worrying loss of purchasing power. In this regard, eleven associations denounced a "regression of rights", in their words, in a petition. Is it tolerable that the fate of disabled pensioners is almost forgotten in this PLFSS? Additional dead angle: Family caregivers who do not pay salary contributions and therefore will not benefit from the decrease in these contributions. The CSG paid by these individuals will increase from 8.2 per cent to 9.9 per cent, which is the highest rate in our country. Is it permissible for carers, who make this beautiful value of solidarity live on a daily basis, to see their purchasing power reduced as a result of this reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u85	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u86	Another dead end is that artists and authors, who will be subject to the CSG increase but will not benefit from the fall in unemployment insurance contributions, since they are not subject to it. Is it normal for the authors and artists, who are the pride of our country, to see, as of January 1, 2018, their income diminished? We will also alert you to the impact that the increase in the hospital package will have on people staying in specialized nursing homes. These adults with disabilities, who are highly dependent, will suffer a loss of 60 to 62 euros per month. These are significant amounts, which cannot be ruled out with a back of hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u87	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u88	On the other hand, the dismantling of the ISR, which we support, would have called for genuine consultation to hear the demands, aspirations and needs of these diverse professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u89	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u90	The directors of the National Fund of the RSI, meeting in council on 3 October, voted massively against the proposed reform. Indeed, it is worrying, if not dangerous, to change France's second social protection system in a few months. Translators, family caregivers, visual artists, pensioners, disability pensioners, National Fund of the RSI: this is the heteroclite coalition that will suffer the consequences of this PLFSS, and which is opposed to it now. Finally, what alerts us is that, more than isolated behaviour, this bill is indicative of a method of government: you want to reform without consultation, you prefer the unilateral to the multilateral, you deny the intermediate bodies, because you consider them adversaries. That's not the right method. Since your brutal decisions of the summer, we have continued to measure the consequences that had not been foreseen by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u91	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u92	[["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the NG group]] Finally, the dead end of this budget covers this value that we all cherish: solidarity. The dead end of this government's policy, beyond the promise of breaking the divides, is the left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u93	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u94	Madam President, Minister, Minister, President of the Committee on Social Affairs, rapporteur-general, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, this first PLFSS of the "new world" succeeds in combining two exploits: not to talk about the health of the French and to tackle the people's strata, families, women and pensioners. However, your conception of social policy is perfectly consistent with your vision of the future, an Anglo-Saxon, American vision, which aims to transform our social and republican model. Through a single technical and financial approach, a single accounting approach, you pass the shots of plan, without ever defining what a public health policy should be, without even involving, moreover, the main actors of it – hospital staff in particular, as our colleague Ericka Bareigts reminded us a few moments ago. There is no health strategy in your text, or rather, there is first of all an economic and accounting strategy to be followed by a public health policy. This PLFSS is therefore, I said, part of the logic of batoning the most popular classes, which your government has made itself the specialist since its arrival, as if it wanted to make them pay for their lack of support for your vision of the world. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] As the President hurts the French with the word by insulting them from evening to morning, you hurt them by weakening them. CSG rises, tobacco prices rise, money from the Asbestos Victims Investment Fund cuts – Madam Minister, I'm talking about human beings, which I think is important, although you don't mind looking at me – and the hospital fee increases: they're always the same people who are laughing. You detrigger, you unscrew, you debunk, you deconstruct our country with method, by attacking you, today, to its social model. It is, in the end, a little bit of our social history that you are attacking. You are always asking for more effort from a certain category of French, claiming that they will benefit from it later; However, the growth hypothesis of the PLF renders this promise obsolete. In fact, you damage public health and "at the same time," since you like this formula, you continue to damage public finances. A few examples: fewer beds and more expensive hospital stays, an increase in the hospital package from 18 to 20 euros – patients without coverage will have to pay themselves –, a bounty on family helpers – you reverse the principle of universality of family policy, even as you yourself acknowledge that our birth rate is falling – and a reduction in access to PJE, which will penalize working women. Over the last ten years, the number of dependents has increased by 30%, but you plan to increase the number of places in EHPAD by only 1%. So the account isn't there. Where's the progress? Where's the requirement? Only accounting governs your choices. In the area of public health, the French are concerned; they ask to be heard and to be taken into account. They want their concerns to be taken into account, to be brought back to you tonight. That's why we're here. Yes, the French are concerned about the vaccination policy you want to apply. They ask themselves about form and substance. They need to be reassured, and their concerns are legitimate. Yes, the French are worried about seeing you stubbornly asking the same people for their efforts and seeing you move towards the privatisation of public health. They're right to worry. It makes you smile, Madam Minister, but if the concerns of the French make you smile, believe that we do not share this way of perceiving things. They don't make me smile. [[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] Yes, the French are worried, you have to hear it and take it into consideration, rather than smile, dear lady.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u95	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u96	Yes, the French are concerned that they are being removed from access to a doctor or hospital. Not all are reassured by the "uberization" of public health. Yes, the French are concerned when they see that the state's medical aid – the AME – is increasing by 108 million euros and that the cost of the medicine in the unit is not one of the possible ways of saving money. These fields of investigation are not exploited, because they bother you because they would upset categorical and financial interests. When it comes to refusing the debate on the cost of the drug to the unit, you take word for word the language elements of the lobbies of pharmaceutical laboratories. It becomes a bit of a sight and a little reassuring for our compatriots. There is no appeal: the health of French people is deteriorating, their situation is worsening and access to care is declining. A worker will not, on average, reach retirement without a health disorder, while an executive will be able to take full advantage of it. Your choices will only speed up these processes. Other avenues for funding and sustaining our health care system could be explored. We would like to make proposals to you: the creation of a new biometric Vitale Card, merged with the identity document, to combat social fraud, the development of the shared medical record and the reduction of the cost of medicines, by operating, if necessary, the mechanism of the ex-officio license for recalcitrant laboratories. As you can see, the National Front's elected representatives are making proposals that deserve to be studied because they are aimed only at protecting the health of the French. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Minister, you are the minister of solidarity and health, do not become the minister of acoquinement and deconstruction of our social heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u97	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are debating today is not a succession of budget items which aim to secure the social security budget well year round. On the contrary, it carries a true vision and a double ambition: to engage in a path of return to balance of accounts, without sacrificing any of our social aspirations. It is therefore a real meeting with the health and social history of our country that we take with this PLFSS,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u99	Maybe we don't have to do too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u100	... because we owe it to the most fragile of us. They will find in these new directions the protections that are at the heart of a pact between the most affluent and the most fragile, between our youth and our elders, the pact of true solidarity. Social security is there to help everyone respond to the risks of life, such as illness, disability, unemployment, dependency or old age. While we are sometimes equal in the face of these risks, we do not all have the same means to deal with them. Contrary to the ludicrous prophecies delivered by the speakers from the left of the House who have followed this rostrum, and which is unrelated to the reality of the text that we have to study tonight, this PLFSS will address the most fragile first.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u101	A little respect is not the shadow and the light!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u102	A doubly protective law: first, because it strengthens the State's support for those who need it most, and second, because it cleans up the finances of this system of protection, delivering this burden to future generations. This text is a thoughtful and well-established proposal, in perfect balance with the finance law that we have just adopted. This link between the PLF and the PLFSS will be seen above all by the assets, who will benefit from an unprecedented reduction in their social contributions from 2018 onwards. As of January 1, 2018, and a second time in October, employees will see a drop in their wage contributions and an increase in their business premium. For self-employed workers, an equivalent measure is provided for. What budget has been made so much for a person at the SMIC, who will receive an additional month's salary at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u103	Did the minister write your speech?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u104	This is what our fellow citizens expect: concrete actions, to strengthen their purchasing power, rather than sermons and an ever-increasing call for compulsory levies and public spending, without even questioning their effectiveness. As of 1 January again, the RSI will be abolished, and the social protection of self-employed workers entrusted to the general scheme. We therefore ensure the same quality of protection for the self-employed as for employees, while taking into account their specific characteristics.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u105	It's Christmas before the hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u106	Because it is to them that we address ourselves today, to all those people who get away with it as they can, but to whom social protection,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u107	Protect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u108	... in the name of the values of solidarity that we defend, must provide stable, solid and adapted support for the major changes that are transforming our society. Single-parent families, for example, who are long forgotten about our public policies, will find this essential support in this text. Many here, and too often women, know how complicated it is to take up a job when you raise your child alone. Removing this obstacle and supporting single parents is therefore a priority, both economic and social, to which we are going to respond. In this way, we plan to increase the support available to single-parent families for the care of their children. Depending on the situation, it can be up to 250 euros per month. This provision of solidarity and economic common sense frees individuals...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u109	Free!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u110	...the constraints that sometimes place on return to employment. I am also thinking of situations of disability, which, however diverse, very often upset lifestyles. If we have increased the amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities to 900 euros, an increase of 100 euros per month,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u111	But still below the poverty line!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u112	... it is because we believe that solidarity must be fully exercised for a more inclusive society. Fight against exclusion, against all exclusions, is the driving force behind our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u113	Almost!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u114	And, as we know, when the end of the month gets complicated, you can easily postpone a doctor's consultation or the purchase of a drug. Nearly 60 per cent of French people report that they have moved or renounced medical consultations or health expenses because of their cost. Those who, like us, find this intolerable will support this text, which provides for a reduction in the price of medicines so that everyone can access care in better conditions. More generally, advance payments should not prevent anyone from taking care of themselves. The paying third party, which already exists for fragile audiences and works well for them, will have to be generalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u116	I am proud to belong to a majority who are leading these discussions with professionals to make it possible. The whole balance of this text is there: to protect from the spell...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u117	Protect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u118	...those who can't do it alone. If solidarity is to be played in favour of the assets, the law must also take into account the fact that our elders, the parents of the assets who have not always been able to contribute the sufficient number of years to receive a decent pension, must also be supported. A country that accepts that older people are unable to heat or feed properly did not understand what solidarity was.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u119	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u120	As such, the smaller pensioners will benefit from an increase in the solidarity allowance for the elderly – the ASPA – of EUR 100 per month.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u121	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u122	We would have done better!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u123	This has never been done in these proportions, so it is a major commitment we are making. Moreover, the parliamentary work of some colleagues – which I welcome – has allowed us to spend EUR 22 billion on the financing of institutions and services for elderly people who are losing their autonomy, which is an additional EUR 515 million compared to 2017. For them, as for the most vulnerable, the Government is committed to the reimbursement of 100 per cent of glasses and hearing and dental prosthetics,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u124	We're still waiting for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u125	... which will be well implemented before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u126	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u127	Because we have this course, that of access to the most precarious care. Every year, it is called into question by a part of the House which will recognise itself. I am thinking, for example, of the AME's budget, which is threatened in its existence at every election date. I strongly advocate to consolidate the right to health for all and to avoid a stigmatizing approach to the care of those who have the most difficulties. I will conclude on one point,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u128	It's already over: your speaking time has expired!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u129	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] ... perhaps more technical, but which establishes the full validity of this text. The aim of the PLFSS is to achieve the balance of all social security accounts by 2020. By 2018, the deficit will be the lowest since 2001, and debt relief will have to accelerate by 2018. It is also a social justice project: making the courageous choice not to get rid of our difficulties on the future of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u130	Five minutes and forty seconds, Madam Chair: Congratulations on the equality of speakers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u131	The children thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u132	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Social Security Financing Act, adopted by Parliament every year, is to set the social and health expenditure targets according to the revenue forecasts. That is the importance of choices that reflect the main priorities in terms of solidarity and access to care for our citizens. And what a challenge, with €498.3 billion of planned spending in 2018, but with only 496.1 billion revenue. Every year, the Court of Auditors reminds us of the need to reduce the deficit and, if successive governments do so and the results improve, the absence or inadequacy of real structural reforms cannot satisfy us, even if I do not doubt your will, Madam and Mr Ministers. Planing cannot be enough and it will become difficult to respect ONDAM. Yes, all the ages of life are affected by this debate: from birth to dependency, from consultation of the doctor to hospitalization in public and private institutions, from the period of employment during which one contributes to the period of retirement, and of course through family policy. On this last point, I will not hide my concern at the sharp and continuing decline in births, the decline in the employment rate of women and the decline in the use of child care. If the family branch has regained balance and the accounts are better, the families are worse.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u134	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u135	The reduction of the basic allowance for early childhood care and other measures will save some EUR 500 million on modest and intermediate families, with consequences for the objective of reconciling family and working life. I recognize and support your efforts for the single parents and the many modest families, and of course we must fight against precariousness and neglect of care, and for the dignity of everyone. But why should the debate on family allowances, which some families would no longer be able to benefit from because of their income, be revived in this context? We are committed to the principle of solidarity, common to all social protection, according to which everyone contributes according to his or her income and receives according to his or her needs – family, illness, retirement and unemployment. We will always defend this historic achievement, the foundation of our social protection pact, which cannot be called into question. Let me ask myself about the increase in the CSG and defend here our pensioners who, with 1200 euros of income, will undergo this increase, without any compensation for many, they who are waiting for a revalorisation of their retirement for three years. If some pensioners have a good standard of living, it is at the cost of long years of work, effort and savings, let us not forget. Let us take the right steps for those welcomed in EHPAD. I am also thinking of our farmers, who will be subject to an increase in their contributions – I have already mentioned this subject in committee. That is not acceptable, but perhaps you will be able, Minister, to provide us with answers. With respect to health, some of your goals meet our expectations, Minister. Territorial access to care needs to be strengthened, while there are fewer general practitioners and they are unevenly distributed. There is also a need to build health homes, to encourage installation, to break out of the watertight partitioning between city medicine and the hospital, or to develop telemedicine, particularly in institutions for the elderly. The territorial organization can go through the hospital groups of territory, some of which are successful. You yourself mentioned, Madam Minister, on 19 September before the Federation of Private Hospitals, the example of the GHT Rhône Nord, which we set up in Villefranche-sur-Saône. It often serves as a reference, with its eight establishments concerned, its 2640 beds, its 3400 employees and its shared medical project; the achievements are concrete and based on eight channels and nine pathways of care. I could mention here, if you were interested, Minister, an innovative public-private partnership and the deployment of a single information system for the entire HHT. The objective we must seek, everywhere in France, is to organize graduated care in the territory: the right care in the right place, at the right time. That must be our goal. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Outpatient care in the hospital, of which you make a priority, must be increased. Will and results already exist. If, for outpatient surgery, a real incentive financial policy has been put in place that has proved effective, this is not the case for outpatient medicine. This is even the opposite, since it can be seen, for example, that a patient's stay in a traditional hospital for more than one night is balanced, but that the same outpatient procedure results in a deficit of more than 30%. It is therefore urgent, Madam Minister, that very incentive mechanisms be put in place so that outpatient medicine can develop as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u136	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u137	Minister, you're at the Social Security bedside. I must tell you our relief, because everyone knows that there was nothing before you, that no minister before you had ever cared about restoring social accounts. This is probably why you inherit a general system close to balance in 2017 and that three of the four branches of social security are now surplus. But no matter what has been done, no matter what the past: we share with you, since you proclaim it, the ambition to defend our social model and our care system. We are convinced, however, that it is possible to restore social accounts by creating new rights, reducing the remaining costs, without any reimbursement, frankness or increase in hospital fees. This is probably where our disagreements are. If they do not cover all aspects of your project – we will have the opportunity to repeat it – they do, however, deal with essential points. Madam Minister, we believe that this PLFSS is the second act of a budget in favour of the most privileged of our citizens. You have a very elastic design of the rope: there are those who climb and those who stay below. The abolition of the ISF, the introduction of a flat tax, is immediately; the revalorisation of allowances, the abolition of wage contributions or the housing tax, is for later or spread over several years. The promises kept are for the richest; the promises postponed or unfulfilled are for the greatest number, it is for the most modest. The activity premium will not be increased by 50%. Overtime will not be derailed. The 100% refund of a number of prosthetics is for later. And what about the abolition of the PAJE for 150,000 families,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u138	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u139	It's dramatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u140	... or the revision of the calculation of the AAH, the allowance for adults with disabilities? The order of your priorities is very unique, Madam Minister; You have a curious conception of justice. Minister, we are concerned about this project in a number of ways. We are worried because the increase in the CSG will make 8 million losers among pensioners, whom you consider privileged from 1489 euros of income per month. We are concerned because the increase in the CSG of public servants will only be compensated where they were promised an increase in purchasing power. We regret that you hold our officials – yours, Madam Minister – who work hard for unproductive workers. We are concerned because, in general, the increase in purchasing power that you claim is in trompe l'oeil. The Government has written it itself in its own impact assessment, published in annex 10 to the PLFSS: what is targeted is a "decreased adjustment of gross wages, and hence a reduction in the cost of labour". The Government is making, without saying, the cynical bet that wages will not rise in the years to come. I wish those of the representatives of the employees who will have to lead the annual wage negotiations in the coming months. We are concerned about the sine die postponement of the paying third party, which will continue to force too many of our fellow citizens to arbitrate between treatment and food, between treatment and clothing, between treatment and housing. We are concerned when you say prevention is your priority and, at the same time, you transvestite the penitential account and push back the ambition to prevent occupational diseases, when they are the main source of health inequalities. We are concerned because the hospital's situation is critical, its activity increases by 2 per cent per year in volume, the pockets of productivity are empty and the ONDAM, with an inflation forecast of 1.2 per cent, is actually much worse than in previous years. Good intentions on the outpatient turn or on the organization of care experiments, which we support, will not suffice. A deterioration in the quality of care and working conditions in the hospital is to be feared. We are concerned about the development of hospital employment. And what about the situation of our EHPADs, already violently struck by the blind and ideological suppression of aided contracts, and who today call for help? We are worried because this austerity cure at the hospital is announcing dementing, which you are already inaugurating with the increase in the hospital package – a tax for the sickest, a tax for the poorest, who will be subject to increases in the supplements, if they have one. Finally, we are concerned about the development of financial relations between the state and social security, and we are concerned that you are preparing to loot social accounts to reduce the state deficit while financing a few tax gifts. At the end of the quinquennium, it is EUR 25 billion that could be tapped, while it would create thousands of nursery places, increase the rate of supervision in EHPADs, reduce their cost to residents or seriously raise social benefits such as the RSA – active solidarity income – or the activity premium. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group. – Murmures]] That is our feeling, minister, at the threshold of reviewing this funding bill. To give them a reality, it is not enough to repeat indefinitely, from echo to echo, the words "equality" or "justice", which become increasingly ironic as inequalities worsen. Madam Minister, your text, despite your statements, your experience and your talent, lacks the justice and humanity that could have been expected of you. By your overly accounting and narrow vision of the PLFSS, I fear that you are already completely and definitively "darmanized".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u141	And there's no vaccine!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u142	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u143	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted first of all to acknowledge the work done on this first bill to finance the social security of the new legislature. This is the first important foundation for our social project. Not everything will be done in 2018, but the first steps we are taking today will already lead to improvements in the lives of our fellow citizens. We welcome the move towards the objective of reducing the budget deficit while committing ourselves to major reforms of national solidarity. Of course, I am thinking of all these important measures: health prevention, support for the most vulnerable families, financial support for people with disabilities and the most modest elderly, especially with the minimum old age. I am also thinking of night nursing in EHPAD and of the provisions that will allow equal treatment of social protection for all workers, employees and self-employed. The adoption of the social system of the self-employed, the RSI, is a major step towards unifying and simplifying. We would like to highlight the approach taken to respond to the difficulties encountered by the RSI in recent years, which aims to achieve the general system based on a gradual and concerted approach. The social system of the self-employed is the second social protection system in France: it covers 4.6 million beneficiaries, 2 million pensioners, and has 2.8 million contributors, 40% of whom are micro-entrepreneurs. Some areas of improvement were identified: readability of pricing, transparency in the calculation of contributions, facilitation of self-assessment, explanation of decisions taken under the amicable procedure and simplification of procedures in the event of difficulties. We could mention others. We can highlight the developments that have taken place in recent times – and I would like to do so with regard to the employees engaged in the RSI – in order to improve the organisation, the telephone reception, or the one-stop shop. Fluidizing relationships, speeding up care, ensuring readability while ensuring the sustainability of the rights that enable self-employed workers to continue their activities: these are the stated objectives of Article 11, which we will defend. This endorsement was decided with great caution and a method based on local and national consultations. It is no longer relevant, in 2017, for the RSI and the general scheme to duplicate themselves in public service missions. Unifying bodies is necessary to change the status of self-employed workers. The risks of the activity of our independent entrepreneurs and their status change over time. It no longer seems appropriate to leave these workers stuck between two systems that intertwine and complicate administratively. Our administrations must take steps to accompany and protect them from all the hazards of life. The RSI services officers have not been forgotten. Nearly 5,500 staff are involved in this operation and commitments have been made: there will be no dismissal, no forced geographical mobility, we are committed to it. From 1 January 2018, each employee's employment contracts will be automatically transferred to the general scheme. I welcome this measure, which marks in a significant way the improvements so much desired by our fellow citizens, thinking first of all of the self-employed. All measures have been taken to control the consequences of this endorsement, particularly with regard to the computer system. For beneficiaries, this reform will not lead to an increase in contributions paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u144	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u145	In addition, a dedicated window will be provided for their reception within the general scheme. Finally, there will be an end to the malfunctioning of the information system, as we pay particular attention to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u146	It's a postulate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u147	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ensure that we have a relationship of trust with all the actors concerned in order to encourage initiatives and to protect against risk: these are the objectives of Article 11!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u148	Mr Adrien Taquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u149	A society is judged by how it behaves with the weakest, with the most vulnerable of its own. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, it is with this sentence that we will be judged at the end of this quinquennium. We will be judged on our ability to improve the lives of millions of our fellow citizens who live in precarious conditions or are slowly drifting towards professional, social, health or territorial downgrading; those who experience unemployment or difficult endings of months; those who do not have access to such a basic right as that of being cared for; those whom the accidents of life, or simply the natural course of life, cause to live in poverty; all those who often combine all these difficulties making the promise of equality of our republican pact null and void. In view of this imperative necessity, all current comments on the supposed social preferences of the President of the Republic and his majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u150	Suppose?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u151	... are nothing but sterile polemics and sticky effects. The 2018 budget, concerning both state finances and the financing of social security, is the cornerstone of this desire to enable many French people, especially the most fragile, to live better in our national community.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u152	What about the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u153	This budget is simply intended to strengthen national solidarity, which has distended, and to allow it to continue, regardless of budgetary constraints. It is a bet for the future because, as Camus teaches us: "The true generosity towards the future is to give everything to the present. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u154	It's not a game!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u155	In view of this ambition, three objectives are clearly pursued by the Government and its majority. The first is to help those most in difficulty to live better. Can we accept today, in our country, that thousands of people with disabilities are living in poverty? We don't accept it. That is why we are going to invest more than €2 billion to raise the allowance for adults with disabilities by €90 per month by 2019, more than a thirteenth month for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u156	Its beneficiaries will remain below the poverty line!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u157	And for couples, she's going down!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u158	Can we accept today, in our country, that the most fragile of our elders are living in precarious conditions? We don't accept it. That is why we are going to upgrade the solidarity allowance to over 900 euros per month for the elderly by 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u159	What about the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u160	And that is why we are going to invest several tens of millions of euros in order to create 4500 additional places in EHPAD. Finally, can we accept today, in our country, that a third of single-parent families live below the poverty line, with the consequences that we know about all aspects of child development? We don't accept it. That is why we will re-align the childcare aid ceiling for these families by 30%, which is an additional €138 per month. Yes, there is an urgent need to stand in solidarity with the most vulnerable of us! But we must also tackle the roots of the various inequalities, in order to restore equal opportunities in our country. And the policy that we lead, the texts that we defend, pursue this second objective: to make France a chance for all. This is true for school learning, it is true for access to a right as basic as the right to be cared for. To act where inequalities are created is to promote the duplication of classes in schools under priority education networks and to establish the "work done" system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u161	And to close the classrooms in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u162	To act where inequalities are created is also to give everyone access to the right to health, which first involves combating medical desertification, by encouraging hospital or liberal professionals to give medical time to underfunded areas and by promoting the deployment of telemedicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u163	Without doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u164	This then means categorically refusing that a number of our fellow citizens will ignore their health for financial reasons, by increasing the repayment project to 100% of the glasses, as well as the hearing and dental prosthetics. Yes, the restoration of equal opportunities and rights is the condition for our country to become a chance again for all! Finally, the text that we are studying from this day onwards envisages a massive redistribution of purchasing power for the benefit of households with medium and modest incomes. Thus, €7 billion in purchasing power will be returned to 25 million French. The taxation of labour will be reduced in order to extend it to capital. An employee paid to the SMIC will earn an additional €263 per year in 2019, i.e. a thirteenth month, by adding the reduction in social contributions, the abolition of the housing tax and the increase in the activity premium. This is what we propose to the French as of January 1, 2018. Who can oppose such a measure of redistribution of purchasing power to workers in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u165	We, because that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u166	Yes! Perhaps the same people who opposed the abolition of the housing tax for 80% of our citizens! [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, this budget has a strong but demanding ambition, dictated by urgency but also by the desire to transform our country in depth. It is a positive and unprecedented dynamic that is being launched, in which I am proud to take part, and I can only invite you to take part with me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u167	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u168	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, according to Emmanuel Hirsch, professor of medical ethics, "care is a political act" and the act of care "a universal act of concern that expresses our values of humanity". I'll meet him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u169	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u170	If caregivers carry out a political act, we parliamentarians must, by reciprocity, pursue a humanist, ethical, universal and caring policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u171	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u172	These are the philosophy and objective of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u173	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] You misread it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u174	A health policy must first and foremost be preventive and protective of our citizens. It is made of prevention, curative and palliative. The just alliance of these three times must lead to the sustainability of our health system, so that it retains its universality and efficiency. In France, the vaccination obligation dates from 1902, the year of promulgation of the first law imposing vaccination. We have thus been able to combat and eradicate the scourges of our society. Immunization remains one of the best ways to prevent and control serious infectious diseases. It has the benefit of protecting the vaccinated patient as well as others. The finding of insufficient immunization coverage and the emergence of epidemiological outbreaks leads to an extension of the vaccination obligation for children; This is the subject of Article 34 of the PLFSS. The lack of confidence in vaccines and the reduction of vaccine coverage is a situation of regression in the country of Pasteur. We observe in France the resurgence of diseases once disappeared as well as deaths of children or heavy handicaps due to the absence of vaccination. We have a century back on vaccines, thanks to which hundreds of millions of lives have been saved. We must restore confidence in our vaccination policy and not succumb to misinformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u175	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u176	Our Western country must be aware of the chance of access to vaccination within the reach of all, of which so many people in the third world would like to benefit so much. As legislators, we have the responsibility and duty to protect our fellow citizens. Within this assembly, a motto unites us and gives meaning to our commitment: freedom, equality, fraternity. Freedom first.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u177	[["Hush! » on the benches of the REM group]] Freedom to choose!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u178	The forthcoming debates in this House will certainly refer to the freedom not to be vaccinated. We all have the freedom, ladies and gentlemen, to choose whether or not to be vaccinated. Allow me, however, to question the full ability of minor children to choose. But it is of them that the text deals with. Do we have the right, in the name of freedom, to allow the spread of deadly diseases? Equality, then. As politicians, we must promote equal opportunities in the face of the disease and the risks it poses. Immunization is one of the first pillars of equal prevention. To those who are not lucky enough to be vaccinated, as well as to the most fragile, whose immune system is weakened and for whom an infectious or viral home can be fatal, it guarantees equality in the face of risks. Making vaccination compulsory also guarantees social equality: since social inequalities hinder equal access to care and children living in precarious environments do not have access to the same care as others, then we legislators must implement a strong vaccination policy and combat this asymmetry of access to care. That is why fraternity must guide our policy and direct it towards legislation making vaccination compulsory. We must promote collective solidarity because that is the very essence of our Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Freedom, equality, fraternity, for a strong, ambitious and unifying 2018 PLFSS!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u180	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u181	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together to examine the first five-year social security financing law. It is a difficult exercise for all governments, who tend, for lack of audacity or courage, to simply repeat the previous measures. Unfortunately, this text does not escape this rule! While some of its guidelines seem relevant to me, we can only regret that the major structural reforms announced to the French and French are if not forgotten, at least postponed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u183	Today you are engulfing the royalties of the 2010 pension reform, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u184	With courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u185	By Nicolas Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u186	You therefore had a margin of manoeuvre to make profound changes, able to adapt our Social Security to the challenges of tomorrow, instead of which you simply sprinkled out half-measures that did not bring any lasting solution. You want to prevent the emergence of new imbalances by 2020. Your objective is commendable and I can only agree with it, but I have serious concerns about the method chosen. The means you propose are too often similar to accounting tricks, which make the presentation of the budget increasingly insinuate. Where everyone expected audacity, especially with regard to structural measures, you have given preference to planing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u187	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u188	In the old age sector, the three-month carry-over of the pension adjustment will result in savings of EUR 500 million, to the detriment of pensioners, who will also be penalized by the increase in the CSG. On the sickness branch, you plan to increase the hospital fee by 2 euros; This is tantamount to transferring EUR 200 million of costs to the health supplement, which will in return increase their rates, penalising the social insured a little more. In the same vein, you reproduce the recipe, served by Mrs Touraine, of offering savings on the medicine once again, to the tune of 1.4 billion euros, whereas it only generates 15% of the expenditure but for years it has contributed to almost half of the savings. This measure will penalise the innovation capabilities of our pharmaceutical industry and will weaken the distribution of the last local players. On the family side, after five years of organized battling of family policy in our country, middle-class families will still be severely affected. The complicated measures of aligning the amount and scales of the basic allowance of the PACE with those of the family supplement are aimed at achieving savings at the expense of families.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u189	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u190	Always to the detriment of the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u191	To achieve the necessary savings, you have found other happy supports, such as pensioners, who will see the revalorisation of their pension postponed to January 1, 2019, unless one decides, in order to increase the manna thus obtained, to delay it by another three or six months – one is never too far-sighted to safeguard social security! We had already had a glimpse of this during the general election campaign and this position is confirmed: this government does not like rich pensioners. We remember that Mr Hollande, already, did not like the rich, that is, households earning more than 4000 euros a month. We see that his successor does not love them more and prefers them even less rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u192	He's his son!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u193	Thus, a pensioner receiving 1200 euros net per month is considered to be easy and will therefore have to undergo an increase of 1.7 points from the CSG. It is true that a rich person will not count the annual loss of 250 euros resulting from this measure – without any compensation, since 4 million households are not subject to the housing tax, which the Government proposes to abolish. Knowing your expertise on the subject, minister, these unfair decisions leave me all the more puzzled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u194	We're disappointed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u195	Marisol Touraine once announced a general regime virtually balanced in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u196	She lied!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u197	The Court of Auditors reminds us that the deficit, even if reduced, remains at around EUR 4.4 billion. Above all, it is a structural deficit, outside the scope of an action plan containing a few items of expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u198	When did the structural reforms take place?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u199	For example, targeting buralists to tackle smoking does not seem to me to be the solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u200	That's not what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u201	Would it not have been wiser to work towards European harmonisation of prices, which is the only way to discourage smokers from purchasing outside our borders, rather than for years to see price increases in the cigarette package, which are more detrimental to bulists than to encourage smokers to reduce their consumption?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u202	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u203	Others have exceeded their speaking time, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u204	Go on, Mrs. Corneloup!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u205	You could, Madam Minister, have listened more to the opposition on this and other matters and welcomed amendments that were worthy of approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u206	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u207	Of the 393 amendments supported in committee, only thirty-two were adopted, almost all of which were tabled by the rapporteur-general, who came from your majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u208	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u209	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will not adopt the same attitude and will, on the contrary, support measures which seem to me to be in the right direction, such as unbundling between professionals, partnership work, delegation of tasks, relevance and quality of care, the outpatient turn and the registration of telemedicine in the common law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u210	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u211	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, for many years now, the Social Security funding bills have found it difficult to control health expenditure and social accounts. Many schemes designed to contain the deficit, aggravated by the high unemployment rate in our country, have been launched. In 2017, the deficit of all branches decreased. This reduction is accompanied by a healthy wage bill, which will grow in 2018 – we already see the first signs of it. The Government's objective is to achieve the balance of social security accounts by 2020 by reducing the deficit but also by reforming. Nevertheless, an ambitious PLFSS cannot be satisfied with the reduction of the deficit alone, even if it is indispensable. This is why a series of measures support the economic activity and purchasing power of the French, which is quite new. Thus, employees benefiting from a reduction in social security contributions will also benefit from the abolition of sickness insurance contributions. An equivalent measure is provided for self-employed workers. For contractors and civil servants, a compensation scheme will be implemented as early as 2018. The increase in the CSG will not apply – it should be noted, as it is never said – to 40% of retirees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u212	What about the remaining 60%?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u213	It will be offset by the exemption from the housing tax from 2018. This exemption will represent...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u214	A loss of autonomy for communities!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u215	... an increase in purchasing power for 80% of households currently subject to this tax, which we all consider unfair. Beyond the measures you have taken in favour of the most fragile – I am thinking in particular of single-parent families but also of the minimum old age, which is increased by EUR 100 per month – you have taken into account in a very reactive way, Madam Minister, the needs of elderly people in situations of loss of autonomy, particularly in the housing establishments for dependent elderly people, the EHPADs. You reacted immediately, which is quite new, to the report I presented on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, which was approved by all the political groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u216	You're exaggerating!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u217	You have included in the PLFSS various measures, aimed at strengthening the offer of accommodation for elderly people in situations of loss of autonomy, but also – should we recall this? – to improve the framework and working conditions in institutions, to which EUR 100 million will be allocated. You have also allocated €10 million to allow for a night nurse presence, which does not exist today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u218	But it does exist, and fortunately!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u219	Finally, I understand, Madam Minister, that you are undertaking the follow-up of the new charging by decree in May 2016, pursuant to the Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing of 2015, in order to accompany institutions that risk suffering from the inequalities induced by this new method of financing. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Reform, act, participate in the fight against inequalities with voluntarism and humanity: this is your road map; It's ours, too. We will therefore accompany you with energy and conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u221	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u222	Madam President, Minister, Minister, Commission Chair, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the first bill to finance the social security of the legislature reflects the progress approved by 66% of the French during the last presidential term.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u223	But 24% in the first round!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u224	This text is the result of a subtle balance between the need to protect the most fragile of us and the desire to release the energies of caregivers as well as care territories. Organizational, medical, technological or digital developments are constant, demanding, important; the obstacles, legal, financial, regulatory, are just as so. However, the need for innovation and support in the field of health has never been greater. Why are we wearing this PLFSS? In order, among other things, to better support chronic patients in our country, to increase home hospitalization and to improve prevention. We are honouring the commitments made during the presidential campaign: 5 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, will be turned to digital health technologies to make France one of the world's leaders in the e-health sector, including three flagship measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u225	Mrs Gregoire provides after-sales service!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u226	With Article 35, we will be able, for five years, to launch bold experiments on the organization and remuneration of acts or stays in all sectors. Miracle solutions do not exist...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u227	I don't know.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u228	... and the lever of remuneration is highly relevant to consolidating new practices. Experimenting, breaking down, fluidizing, in order to create fruitful synergies, is the meaning of Article 35. Let us change attitudes by favouring health professionals who work especially in the service of prevention, not necessarily those who work more to do the act. Because innovation is not a vain word for us, this article also provides for the substantial funding of a fund, managed by a committee of experts, to evaluate the experiments and deploy them to the territories. Many called him of their vows; We're doing it. We must also speed up the registration of documents for reimbursement. Today, it takes an average of three years for a new act to be registered. Three years is an eternity in the light of the evolution of our technologies; Three years is way too much! The time for innovation is not the time for technocracy. Article 37, for example, strengthens the registration procedure in order to speed up the care of patients, increase the transparency and predictability of the procedures for registering documents for reimbursement. A specific registration procedure for the reimbursement of acts carried out in teams will also improve collaborative practices within innovative organisations. Again, triptych breaking down, fluidizing, coordinating is our guiding thread to ultimately improve patient management. We intend to develop the use of telemedicine throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u229	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u230	New national health strategy, major investment plan and PLFSS: the development of telemedicine is finally at the heart of public health policies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u231	We've been talking about it for 20 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u232	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] This illustrates a salutary awareness because telemedicine allows for greater flexibility in care, reduces costs and is a complementary means of combating medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u233	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u234	Up until now and for too long at local experiments, telemedicine has struggled to develop, crushed on all sides by regulations, lack of remuneration and, last year, delays in the publication of decrees. All of this has helped to limit its growth, as our French health care system suffers from the burden of spending on chronic diseases that are increasingly prevalent. Yes, France was suffering from a culpable delay, even though France, thanks to its technological, industrial and of course medical excellence, has everything to be a champion in this field!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u235	You had to tell Mr. Valls!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u236	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u237	You're starting to be tiring, my dear colleague! Calm down! [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Telemedicine provides both preventive and curative responses. For example – you might be interested in what I'm saying, it's important from a medical point of view – the cost of patients displaced and hospitalized for heart failure is about 2 billion euros a year. Telemedicine would reduce the average length of stay and thus the expenditure by EUR 1 billion. This is our effective and expected revolution: finally finance telemedicine!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u238	Stop yelling!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u239	Control your nerves!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u240	Gentlemen! Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u241	[[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Extended exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] Better to support patients in renovated health pathways, to free up the levers of remuneration, to affirm finally a will to generalize the practices of telemedicine, this is what Agnès Buzyn does in this PLFSS! So many ways to better prevent, predict and support patients, especially chronic and dependent patients! That is the meaning of this PLFSS, and I thank the ministers for their political courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u242	Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet! You don't have the floor! Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u243	The reality of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018, which is being proposed to us at your initiative, Minister, and under your leadership, Minister, is reinstating the course, coherence, and concretely translating Emmanuel Macron's campaign commitments into a courageous policy. For having discovered the functioning of our assembly, I would like to pay tribute here to the preparatory work that we have carried out in committee, under the benevolent authority of its president, Brigitte Bourguignon. The creativity of the rapporteur-general, Olivier Véran, has enriched our text and, I believe, allowed us to find the right adjustments. Promesses held: responsibility for combating social debts; economic choices assumed, with the rise of the CSG and the reduction of social contributions, to increase the purchasing power of the French who work and that of the most fragile;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u244	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u245	... prevention strategy, with widespread immunization coverage and a sharp rise in tobacco prices; assistance to the most fragile and the choice of solidarity, with the increase of the minimum old age or a family policy prioritizing support to single-parent families and large families. This PLFSS demonstrates a government ambition and commitment to translate Emmanuel Macron's promises into the texts. I want to illustrate this reformist desire for social justice and economic efficiency through two concrete examples that hold me to heart: the planned end of the RSI and that of the CICE. Encourage the taste of risk and facilitate the lives of those who undertake: this is the spirit of reform that drives our majority. This is why the PLFSS for 2018 is embarking on a major social transformation, with the beginning of the development of the RSI's support for the general system. This concrete, effective and fair reform is eagerly awaited by 6.6 million French. It will come into force on 1 January 2018 and concerns RSI contributors, their beneficiaries and retirees. The beneficiaries of the RSI expected that they would be given the same quality of protection as employees, particularly in terms of speed and efficiency, while taking into account the specific characteristics of their social protection. Efficiency and pragmatism: Self-employed people will benefit from a dedicated organisation within the general scheme. Their supplementary pension scheme will remain unchanged. The second example revealing the spirit of the reforms we are carrying out – simplification and efficiency – is the transformation of the CICE into a lower burden, by reducing contributions on low wages. While the CICE scheme put in place by the previous majority could be useful, by allowing companies to replenish their margins, its complexity, due to the mechanism of imputation of the tax credit in a staggered year, does not facilitate the lives of companies, in particular of TPEs and SMEs. Head of an SME, I say to you: was it pragmatic to use an annual bank credit to pay the social security contributions of our employees, the repayment being made only in June of the following year? Our majority, far from dogmatism, make the choice of what is simple, what is effective, what works. Starting in 2019, we will transform the CICE into a reduction in social contributions. Because of the need for fiscal stability and simplicity for businesses, this reduction in social contributions will be sustained, and businesses will benefit immediately. In 2019, companies will see these measures cumulated with the benefit of the CICE paid under the 2018 army. This boost offers an unprecedented contribution to employers, and must be a boost to our economy, because we want quick results. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The Government, with its first budget texts, is implementing the necessary profound transformation of the President of the Republic, for which the French have given us a majority. We want to combine without dogmatism economic competitiveness, the return to balance of our accounts and social justice. Our fellow citizens are asking for results. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, the reforms are just beginning!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u246	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u247	Madam Chair, Minister, Minister, Commission Chair, Rapporteur General, the first PLFSS of the legislature has made real progress, and I would like to begin by welcoming your courage – a great virtue for our public health policy! The shift from three to eleven compulsory vaccines on January 1st is a courageous step. This is a proposal of common sense because too many children or unvaccinated people are endangering the entire population. We cannot tolerate that once again, we can die of measles in France. The obligation to vaccinate is a collective responsibility. I welcome this decision; You have all my support. Although the rise in the CSG and your family policy are questionable and subject to debate, I chose to focus this evening on a particular topic: medical demography. This is an important issue for the Ardennes, but also for many other rural and peripheral areas. The medical shortage affects all the exercises of medicine – liberal, hospital, work, departmental council – and hinders access to care as well as the modernization of our health system. The ambulatory medicine that you rightly promote finds its limits on certain territories: a day, an intervention, and, in the evening, return to a village where it is difficult to find a nurse, a doctor. At the hospital, where rigorous and virtuous management is sought, the expense generated for the payment of the acts of mercenary doctors handicaps our institutions. Madam Minister, on this subject, you have recently made a series of announcements aimed at improving access to care in France. Some of your proposals make full consensus: this is particularly the case with the extended exemptions for the cumulation of liberal employment and retirement; This is also the case with the extension of zoning for aid for the installation of generalists. You also plan to double the number of health homes; It's good, but you still have to find doctors to practice there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u248	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u249	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u250	I have therefore tabled an amendment, already proposed by my Socialist colleague Annie Le Houerou during last year's review of the PLFSS, which tends to affirm a moral obligation to combat medical desertification: it provides that, in areas overdoed as doctors, one cannot contract a new liberal doctor unless he resumes his activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u251	That's brave!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u252	It is indeed indecent to continue to contract doctors in places where it is well known that they are already too numerous, in the name of the sacrosanct principle of freedom of settlement, while in other territories doctors suffer or are in burn-out.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u253	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u254	The latest figures, published a week ago by the Order of Physicians, are particularly alarming: disparities are widening in France, despite the many measures already taken, such as those relating to numerus clausus, medical homes or the remuneration of doctors. In the Ardennes, the situation is worrying: there are 83 liberal doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, while the national average is 92. In 2017, of 221 Ardennes liberal general practitioners, more than half are over fifty-five years old, which suggests great difficulties. Madam Minister, I hope that the independence of your majority will allow him to vote for this amendment, apart from any lobbying, because we also need courageous measures in this area. Your plan also proposes to encourage telemedicine. That is good, but such a measure will never be operational without the very high speed, which we do not have, or very little, in our rural areas. The best of very high speed is accessible for less than 1% of the inhabitants of Creuse or Dordogne, while it is accessible for more than 90% of the inhabitants of Paris or Hauts-de-Seine.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u255	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u256	However, I understand that access to high-speed broadband for smaller municipalities is not a priority for the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u257	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u258	Telemedicine is certainly a solution, but it is inapplicable as it is. Finally, you propose the delegation of certain skills, for example to nurses. Of course we have to go in that direction. In particular, I have been active in this regard with regard to midwives, who are a medical profession. They have faced serious resistance from doctors. For several years, the authorities, which claim to want to make midwife a major actor in prevention, have forgotten them in improvements in the pricing of acts. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, behind the issue of medical demography in rural areas, there are serious issues, such as the inability to implement prevention or modernize access to care, particularly for the most vulnerable: the elderly, persons with disabilities, children. No double penalty or triple penalty for our territories! During the examination of this PLFSS, can we find ourselves around common sense measures against the medical shortage!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u259	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u260	Minister, Minister, Chairperson of the Committee, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, solidarity, support for the most fragile, purchasing power, reform of the RSI, prevention and public health: the PLFSS for 2018 implements the commitments made by Emmanuel Macron to the French. This budget is both ambitious, responsible and supportive. The Government's family policy makes supporting the most fragile families one of its top priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u261	We'll have to talk about the allowances!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u262	In this PLFSS, it focuses on two areas: support for single-parent families and support for the most modest families. A special effort is being made for single-parent families. According to INSEE's latest figures – the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – they represent one in five families. In 85% of cases, the single parent is a woman. Women are more affected by unemployment, insecurity, difficulties in housing, poverty. They also find it more difficult to have their children cared for, which is a barrier to accessing employment and reconciling family and working life. The PLFSS for 2018 targets the issue of childcare as a real obstacle to activity, access to employment, career development,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u263	With the opening of a crèche in the assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u264	...through two measures. The ceiling for the supplement of free choice of mode of care will be increased by 30% for single-parent families, in order to enable all parents raising young children to be better supported financially; for single parents with two children, one of whom is under three years of age, and whose annual income does not exceed 32800 euros, child care assistance will increase from 462 to 600 euros per month, i.e. 138 euros per month. The family support allowance, paid when the spouse does not pay maintenance or when the amount of maintenance is low, will be increased by 6 euros on the same date. In total, several hundred thousand families will be affected by these measures. Regarding support for the most modest families, on the occasion of the thirtieth World Day of Refusal of Poverty, on October 17, Emmanuel Macron launched...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u265	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] He again? But he's everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u266	... a consultation on a new anti-poverty policy, with an objective: equal opportunities for children, regardless of their environment of origin, in a logic of prevention and social investment. Targeting children does not, of course, mean abandoning people who change or are living in poverty; It is a question of breaking the logic of social reproduction, to ensure that today's children are not the poor adults of tomorrow. A few figures: 9 million people live below the poverty line; There are 20 per cent of poor children, or about 3 million; 16,000 people live in slums in France, of which 36% are children. Without waiting for the outcome of this consultation, the PLFSS plans to help the most modest families from now on. The increased amount of the family supplement, currently EUR 236.70 per month, would thus be adjusted by EUR 16.80 per month – and I am not talking about raising the minimum age. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that this PLFSS puts health innovation at the heart of its strategy for effectiveness. This text presents progress on three points: one, a new organization of our health system, in order to increase agility and flexibility, to appropriate innovations and to integrate them into the health care system; Two, the development of telemedicine, which will prevent hospitalizations, avoid transport times for isolated people and improve access to care; three, investing in digital, with €100 million in 2018 to support the digital transformation of healthcare institutions. Help those who need it most, release the locks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u267	And release the energies, etc. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u268	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ... identify all the current blockages and brakes in order to improve the provision of care, innovate: this is the spirit that drives us through this PLFSS, which I support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u269	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u270	Madam Chair, Minister, Minister, Commission Chair, rapporteur-general, colleagues, the latest DRESS survey – the Department of Solidarity and Health's Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – confirms patients' commitment to their treating physician: 88% of patients feel satisfied with the quality of care. It may be assumed that the same survey would yield inverse results in terms of access to care, not only in rural areas but also in peri-urban areas, particularly in under-funded areas such as the Centre or Picardie, where the ratio is 2.1 doctors per 1000 inhabitants, compared with 3.48 in Île-de-France or Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. Let us highlight the paradox of this situation, since we have never had so many doctors enrolled in order and in activity – with a very heterogeneous distribution, it is true. We are faced with several problems: an aging medical population, broken to align 60 hours of weekly work; a growing population of elderly, if not very elderly, and polypathological patients, who are fragile, requiring much longer consultation times. At the same time, a new medical generation appears, which aspires to group work and also to have time for oneself and his family. The medical population is feminizing and does not aspire to work 50 to 60 hours a week, nor to devote time to administrative tasks. All this is perfectly legitimate. As a result, 10% of doctors settle in Liberals. The problem is all the more acute in the case of general practitioners, who are central to the health system. Having practiced for more than twenty-five years in semi-rural environments, I have all the experience and legitimacy to talk about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u271	Experience, yes, but legitimacy...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u272	Yes, we must respond to the aspirations of health professionals, we must not act by coercion, which would make no sense and not only be unproductive, but would create a harmful climate. It is by taking into account the realities of the field and the suggestions of patients and health care professionals that together we will find answers to the problems. The measures contained in this PLFSS are in the right direction, and many of my colleagues bear witness to this. They also take into account societal changes. This is in particular the case: the creation, as early as 2018, of physician posts shared between city medicine and hospital practice; the development of telemedicine, including teleconsultation, tele-assistance, tele-expertise and medical regulation; the doubling of multidisciplinary health centres, with positions of clinician nurses within them, with a view to delegating tasks; the sustainability of the system of liberal health action as a team, according to the example of Germany, where a colleague manages a patientele of 2000 people, compared to about 1200 in France; the creation of MSP – multidisciplinary health centres – including "quality groups", in which health actors meet, and offering the possibility of organising a network of secondary offices in the surrounding villages; administrative simplification for health professionals, with the creation of a one-stop shop, which will make it possible to restore time to medical activity; the strengthening of installation aid, which will cover 18 % of the territories, compared with 7 % at present; the upgrading of medical procedures in the sub-dense zone; raising the annual ceiling for cumulation between employment and retirement; advanced consultations; the development of internships in the practitioner, whose organization I recommend as soon as possible, from the third or fourth year of medicine. Health professionals also welcome your initiative, Madam Minister, to involve them, in conjunction with RHAs and URPS – regional health agencies and regional health professional unions – in health initiatives and projects, with a focus on proximity, local specificities and per-basin of life. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] However, combating desertification requires an increase in the attractiveness of a territory. Few are those who have a hermit's soul! This should encourage us to think and act in a global way. That is why we, Members of the La République Group on the move, commend your political courage, Madam Minister, for making prevention, education and the fight against poverty a national priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u273	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u274	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the first five-year social security financing bill acknowledges the will of the Government and the majority to modernise our social protection while adapting it to a limited budgetary context, which calls for our collective responsibility. As you pointed out, Minister, this PLFSS will bring the social security deficit back to its lowest level since 2001, despite the mechanical increase in many expenditures. However, we find a balance between the need to cut spending and maintaining the protection of the weakest, as several previous speakers have pointed out. Behind the figures, there are also realities, which this PLFSS does not fail to deal with. More than just an accounting exercise, it carries a vision: that of adapting our social protection system to the challenges of tomorrow. It is a PLFSS of anticipation, first of all, in that it strengthens prevention, that it anticipates, thus reduces future spending. It does this first by a sharp rise in the price of the cigarette pack, an effective response to the problem of smoking, the leading cause of preventable mortality. By making the smart choice to announce successive increases in advance, the Government allows smokers to place themselves in a clear perspective of stopping their consumption. The aim will now be to best support the development of the economic model of the Buralists, who often remain the last traders in rural areas, where the tobacco office can also be the last place of sociability. It is also a pre-emptive PLFSS through vaccination measures. It makes the courageous choice to make mandatory the eight vaccines currently recommended, because yes, children still die from the diseases concerned or develop serious sequelae due to insufficient vaccination coverage. I would like to pay tribute here to the pedagogy and courage you have shown, Madam Minister, in the face of misinformed scepticism and irresponsible obscurantism. It is then an adaptation PLFSS, which gives our society the innovative means to respond effectively to today's constraints and tomorrow's challenges. This transformation will make ambulances, team actions and telemedicine, no longer exceptions, but tools of everyday life for patients as well as for medical personnel. By taking full advantage of the means of communication and medical technologies, our health system will find solutions to institutional congestion, work overload and medical desertification. Disability care will also be modernised and adapted to new innovative forms of support. This PLFSS acknowledges the continuation of the measures taken in December 2016 by allocating the €180 million planned for disability over the period 2017-2021, half of which is for support in the ordinary environment. It will thus transform the offer, to the benefit of innovative devices, such as the HabiTED project, whose premises I visited, in the North, alongside Sophie Cluzel, and which I wanted to mention. HabiTED offers young adults with autism accommodation in an ordinary environment, coupled with the appropriate accompaniment services. By giving them every opportunity to integrate into society, it is an excellent example of the innovative schemes to which the PLFSS will give the means to develop: 2000 new places will be created in such establishments. Finally, this text continues the necessary adaptation of our social security system to the context of an ageing population. The reform of EHPAD funding will thus continue. Although it is not yet free of defects – as I have seen as co-rapporteur for the implementation of the law on the adaptation of society to ageing, alongside my colleague Agnès Firmin Le Bodo – it brings new transparency and readability in the financing of institutions. Faced with the scarcity of places, which often causes very difficult situations for families, this PLFSS provides for the creation of 5000 permanent and temporary accommodation places in EHPAD, as well as an increase of half a billion euros in the financing of establishments. It thus ensures the support of our seniors and makes the accompaniment of addiction a priority. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This is the PLFSS for 2018, yes, but not only, as it will also help put social security on the move towards modernity in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u275	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u276	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk to you about the reform of the social system for the self-employed during the five minutes that I have to tell you all the harm that I think it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u278	You are aware of the problem of this regime, Mr.Minister, since, a few years ago, we asked for a commission of inquiry on this matter – we were sitting on the same benches, within the same group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u279	We always belong to the same political formation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u280	It's a matter of days, maybe weeks. But it's true; how life sometimes makes us take different paths...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u281	You obviously haven't made any progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u282	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LR group]] One chance at scratching, one chance at the draw: wait next week, Mr Darmanin! You treat the problem of the RSI a little like that of Crédit Lyonnais: it would be enough to change the brand and to ripple the facade to solve it! Overall, your reform is to have the ISR swallowed by the general regime. It is true that the RSI is very criticized, badly loved by the independents themselves, and for good reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u283	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u284	However, when such a reform is undertaken, the reasons for it must be questioned. Where does the problem of the social system of the self-employed come from? From a merger that was decided by the right – each one will learn the lessons and take on his responsibilities. It was decided, I said, to merge several caisses which, at the time, each had its own computer system. The SNV2 system – the national version 2 system – was then set up to collect and calculate contributions. But this application, managed by the USSRAF – the unions for the collection of social security contributions and family allowances – which take care of many clients other than the self-employed, does not work. The USSRAFs, in short, carry out the work on behalf of the RSI: the system is dual, the RSI being only the window of a shop managed in reality by the former and by the ACOSS, the Central Agency of Social Security Organizations. The malfunction of the computer application causes problems in cascading, as the independents find themselves with sometimes incorrect contribution amounts. However, the social regime of the independents with exorbitant prerogatives of the ordinary law – it does not need to apply to the courts to ensure the recovery of the sums owed to it –, bailiffs are sometimes sent to the affiliates following a simple computer operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u285	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u286	That is the problem as it arises. But your reform, minister, minister, does not resolve it. Why? Because, tomorrow, the RSI will be integrated into the general scheme, with exactly the same computer application, so that the malfunctions will remain: we will not solve the problem of sending bailiffs in the way I have described, nor that of calculating the contributions. [[Smile]] On the other hand, we are announced a simplification: carabistouilles! We won't simplify anything! There is now a one-stop shop for self-employed people, where they can get an explanation of what is involved in pensions, health insurance or other sectors. The integration into the general scheme will de facto lead the latter to direct the self-employed towards its various windows, the CPAM – Primary Health Insurance Fund –, the CIPAV – Interprofessional Pension and Old Age Insurance Fund –, the CARSAT – Pension and Occupational Health Insurance Fund –, the USSRAFs or the ACOSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u287	Crochignoles!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u288	And even abracadabrantesque, my dear colleague! This is a simplification, the Government will explain to me. But how is the integration of a singular regime into a general system a simplification? Either we merge everything, in which case we end up with four regimes where there was only one; either we keep the specificity of the RSI, which has no logic. You're talking about "adopting"; It's a nice word, probably invented by communicators. But, in fact, is there a single window or four? That is the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u289	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u290	Your reform, not only will not solve the current problem, but will create others. First of all, it is tantamount to state the social security system, for which you are not responsible – you are only pursuing a policy that has, alas, been pursued for several years. The CMU and the AME – universal health insurance and state medical aid – are universal benefits, "decorated" contributions, based on income from work. We are therefore moving from an insurgency system, to German, to a British system – the so-called "beveridgian" for the Druids – which is to finance universal benefits through taxation. This latter system poses real problems of social justice, since, from a general point of view, the contributor discovers that his benefits are much lower than those which, without contributing, receive universal benefits. In addition, this is deeply negative because it defies the responsibility of the self-employed in managing their plan, and it standardizes benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u291	Five minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u292	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u293	[[Applause and laughter on several benches of the REM group]] I'll do it, Madam President, don't worry! [[Exclaims and taps of desks on the benches of the REM group]] So, I said, there will be a two-speed system, which will lead to an increase in contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u294	It's starting to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u295	I understand that the majority likes the opposition so much that they prefer to gag it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u296	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u297	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I propose a very simple solution: self-calculation and self-liquidation of contributions; It will prevent both a stateization and a second industrial disaster, believe me!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u298	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u299	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crossroads. This afternoon, we voted for the first part of the 2018 finance bill, the first part of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium and that majority, and we are now starting the debate in session on the first Social Security funding bill. The latter text follows the same logic: that of the commitments made, of responsibility, of solidarity and of transformation. What do we want to do? Stay in immobilism, keep part of the French in precariousness, do little or not enough, lack of audacity? We want a prosperous France and progress; we want France to offer everyone a chance; We want to do more for those who have less. And above all, we want to keep our promises. This Social Security Funding Bill is worded in three words: courage, determination and justice. The courage is first of all to do what has been said: to restore purchasing power to households, to protect the most fragile, to allow companies to invest and to hire, but also to control public expenditure, while increasing the national target of health insurance expenditure by 2.3%. Courage also means resisting the winds and tides of particular interests to ensure the good of all. Determination is the second word, the absolute determination to succeed, not as a posture but as a goal that will guide our action for five years. The third word, finally, is justice, for all French people, for a society where all have the same rights and duties, and where the most fragile enjoy genuine protection. In ten years, precariousness and poverty have increased in France, despite previous policies, which have not made lasting improvements to the situation of the French. France has more than 5 million unemployed and nearly 9 million people living below the poverty line – more than 1 million people have fallen below the poverty line in 10 years. Also, the finance bill and the Social Security funding bill for 2018 constitute the first floor of the rocket "better living in France": the floor of the increase in purchasing power. The free choice supplement for child care will be upgraded by 30% for single-parent families starting in October 2018, benefiting 83000 families. A single-parent family with two children earning 2000 euros per month will see its income increase by 65 euros per month at the end of 2018, 86 euros at the end of 2019 and 107 euros at the end of the quinquennium. The solidarity allowance for the elderly will be increased by 30 euros per month on 1 April 2018, then by 35 euros on 1 January 2019 and by 35 euros on 1 January 2020, i.e. a total of 100 additional euros per month, to the benefit of 550000 French. More than 1 million French people receiving the adult disability allowance will see its amount increase from 810 to 900 euros per month as of 2019. Other important measures will improve the purchasing power of the French. All employees in the private sector will see their unemployment and sickness contributions abolished in two stages: a first decrease as of 1 January, and then the total abolition in October 2018. The self-employed will see the increase in the CSG fully offset by the decrease in their family contributions, and 75% of them will experience an increase in purchasing power due to the decrease in sickness contributions. Finally, all business creators and buyers will benefit from a white year of social contributions as early as 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, this budget will improve the purchasing power of millions of French; It will help the most fragile. This budget respects our commitments; It is sincere and, moreover, it is financed. If some find that we do not go far enough in the reforms and want the liberalisation of our system by leaving at the edge of the road the most fragile of us, if others find that we abandon the popular classes, while they have only kept them in precariousness, I affirm that those who attack us by arguing with a so-called fiscal battling are in the posture, the fantasy and the myth. In the end, I no longer understand what we are accused of, unless it is merely a gesture – to oppose, without ever having succeeded in implementing courageous reforms capable of improving the daily lives of all French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u300	Give us the place! We'll take action!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u301	This budget is a real social justice budget, drawn up in a spirit of responsibility and balance. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The ethics of responsibility according to Max Weber is the acceptance of "responsibility for the foreseeable consequences of our actions". That is the meaning of our commitment here in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u303	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u304	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur-general, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, it is with some emotion that I address you. Indeed, before being an elected member of the nation, I, as a psychiatrist, had the happiness of having a public, private, health, medical and social journey, and with the poorest, as medical director of the SAMU social de Paris. This very rich field experience leads me today to strongly defend the Social Security Financing Bill, a structural reform project. On 7 May, the French gave their vote to a new way of doing politics, based on the listening and expectations of the actors on the ground. It is in this spirit that our rapporteur-general has conducted a large number of hearings, which are necessary for a better understanding of our committee. Our health care system is one of the best in the world. Our healthcare professionals are among the best qualified; Therefore, it is time to trust them more. What do they expect from us today? Wherever we travel, in our territory, if we take the time to listen to doctors, nurses, all health care providers, we mean that they are all subject to the rules and standards imposed by our health system. They can no longer be the same in the city and in the countryside, in rural areas and in densely populated areas. I am convinced that, on all the benches of this assembly – a little sparse tonight – we agree to leave more room for innovation and experimentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u305	It all depends on what's behind it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u306	This is what we propose in Article 35 of the PLFSS, which encourages the experimentation of new organizations in the territories, by favouring the collective work and the relevant reimbursement of medicines or associated products and services.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u307	Presented in this way, that sounds nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u308	In order to meet the new aspirations of health professionals to work as a group and thereby promote their settlement in the underserved territories, the development of multidisciplinary health homes is encouraged. It will enable the development of the combined modes of exercise, sometimes outside the walls, by participating in the structuring of care routes and by promoting the presence of health professionals in the most vulnerable areas. In March 2015, 616 health centres and health centres reported working in consultation with external health professionals, compared to only 436 in March 2014. Health homes thus open up in our territory and facilitate the relationship between city and hospital. Access to community care for all must be guaranteed in all territories. To illustrate my comments on innovation, I would like to share with you, at this stage, an experiment launched in Alsace, a region of which I am the elected one. The TELECIAL platform promotes the care of patients living in sensitive urban areas or in rural areas, or those moving very difficultly. The principle is simple: healthcare professionals, in the presence of their patient, send photos of the subject to be treated or participate in video conferencing simultaneously with multidisciplinary experts of the platform. For the time being, TELERICAL is intended to heal complex and chronic wounds, such as escarres or ulcers. This truly successful experiment could be expanded by Article 35, which provides health professionals with the opportunity to innovate, test and correct. Today, 5.3 million French people find it difficult to access care. Let's give our doctors and healthcare professionals freedom to organize! They know better than anyone what is good for our patients and their health. Too often, in the past, we have ruled out prevention as a major focus of our public health policies. She's at the heart of this PLFSS. Indeed, there are several forms of prevention. I am thinking of tobacco control, especially for our young people, or of extended compulsory vaccination. Here in our country, France, where the health system is ultra-performing, our children still die of measles, while it is completely eradicated in Latin America – 5000 cases of tuberculosis were recorded in France last year. Vaccining is about protecting your child, but it's also about protecting others, it's about being collective and supportive. Prevention will have to extend to all areas of health. I would like to pay particular attention here to the patients and their families who, every day, fight against mental disability. Recognized for only 12 years, by the law of 11 February 2005, mental disability is most often neglected or denied. Mental illness is detected late, after ten years of diagnostic error and inadequate management. We know that, according to WHO – the World Health Organization – one in five people will deal with a psychiatrist in their lifetime. About 2.5 million people are bipolar in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u309	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u310	Only 700000 of them are treated. Five doctors must be consulted before a diagnosis is made. Almost half of the people hide their disease out of shame, for fear of being stigmatized.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u311	Dear colleague, we must conclude!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u312	As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the PLFSS meets the expectations of healthcare professionals, who want more freedom to innovate and experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u313	It's still not over?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u314	Madam President, we are six minutes away!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u315	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] It also meets the expectations of citizens, who welcome the positioning of prevention as a major focus of our health policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u316	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u317	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I am sure that, beyond all partisan labels, this text will be widely supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u318	Six minutes twenty!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u319	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u320	Thank you first, Madam Chair, for conducting these debates. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur-general, for your support and enthusiasm. Responsibility, freedom, protection, innovation are the key words of the PLFSS. In particular, I know your commitment to organizational innovations in health. We share the desire to change methods, trusting the actors on the ground to initiate structural reforms. I would also like to say that I share your concerns about the need for a policy to combat overweight and obesity. I would also like to thank Mr Mesnier, who has expressed his support for the long-awaited and finally achieved promotion of an ambitious prevention policy. He recalled, as well as Ms Dufeu Schubert, the strong measure contained in the PLFSS to restore confidence in vaccination. I repeat, we are going to take a global shift towards prevention; This will be the meaning of the national health strategy, which will be made public at the end of December. Thank you, too, Madam chairman of the committee, for your support and for the remarkable work of the committee, which is all the more remarkable given that I know the time constraints in which it was conducted. Social security is our common bond and our common good. Through the consolidation of accounts and the solidarity measures it provides, this PLFSS will strengthen confidence in our health care system. I therefore thank you and Mr Taché for reminding us that it is both a PLFSS of social justice and responsibility, a PLFSS which will allow us not to leave to our children a social debt accumulated for so many years, and which, at the same time, will improve the situation of the most fragile French and French. That is the sense of revaluing the minimum old age and the allowance for disabled adults, which you mentioned, Mr Taquet. I also share with you, Madam President, the idea that social security must evolve and that this PLFSS is not the status quo. It is a text of profound transformation, with actors in the field and health professionals. There are contradictions in the words of Mr Woerth and Mr Door, who have now left the Chamber! They tell me that ONDAM may not be demanding enough, but it agrees that the medical convention was necessary and that it has a cost. They tell me that we are lax, that this PLFSS is not a breaking text, but, at the same time, that the savings on the drug sector are too ambitious. I reply to Mr Woerth that we are not trying to break with a legacy or with a system of protection that has been built over generations, but to make it evolve in depth. Yes, as Mr. Alauzet said, the new ONDAM is demanding. Our approach is a process of profound transformation of organizations, of methods of remuneration, of reorientation towards prevention. Finally, in response to Mr Woerth, I assure you that, by improving the relevance of prescriptions, acts, stays, interactions between healthcare professionals, savings can go hand in hand with the quality of care. Mrs Fiat, we can share a conviction that hospital and public service are essential elements of our health care system. On the other hand, I cannot agree with other positions that you have expressed. You say, for example, that we do not devote any additional resources to EHPAD. However, this PLFSS, which has been informed by Mrs Iborra's report, has an additional EUR 100 million to strengthen the healthcare framework, in addition to the creation of 4500 accommodation places. Mr Dharréville, like several other speakers, you have spoken about access to care in the territories and the demographics of health professionals. That is precisely why – as you mentioned, Mr Delatte – I presented, a few days ago, a resolutely ambitious plan, which is based in particular, but not only, on telemedicine. You stressed, Mrs El Haïry, how long it was to make up for our delay in this matter. Mrs Grégoire, and I thank you, you have been more forcefully recalling that this text is the PLFSS of innovation in the territories: it aims to liberate the energies on the ground, not to compel by measures from above. But I share your conviction, Mrs Poletti, that we must rely on local actors and coordinated exercise structures, whatever they may be – health homes or health centres. I'm not opposed to each other. On the contrary, I want to go beyond the sterile partitions that divide our system, between types of exercise and between city and hospital practice. I cannot let Mr Vallaud say that this PLFSS is designed against the hospital: hospital expenditure will increase by 2.2%, or 1.7 billion euros more for the hospital in 2018. But figures and expenditures are not enough and this PLFSS is also the one that lays the foundations for a profound evolution in the organization of our health system, more focused on quality and relevance than on activity alone. As I have already had the opportunity to explain to Mr Jumel, I want to change the way hospitals are financed, to go beyond activity pricing. I have also heard criticism of the cost savings in the drug sector, Mr Vercamer. The PLFSS, it is true, has a requirement to control expenditure in this respect. For, if there are innovative medicines, there are also situational rents, on which margins can be mobilised to invest in innovative treatments. I want to make these savings intelligently, with structural reforms on the relevance of prescriptions and the promotion of generics and biosimilars. Mr Aviragnet, you spoke to us about social inequalities in access to care and you mentioned my pragmatism about third-party payment. However, I would like to point out here that the third-party fee remains mandatory for those who need it most, the most fragile, or those who need it most. You also mentioned the increase in hospital fees. I would like to point out that this is simply a catch-up on inflation and that it is covered by responsible contracts. As for the presidential commitment of a zero-load leftover for optics, dental and audioprostheses, it will be held. It is precisely next week that the discussions begin on the subject. With regard to the RSI, reform is necessary, and I thank you for reminding you that it will allow the self-employed to join the general scheme, while maintaining a dedicated organisation. Some people tell me that the reform is hasty, that it is on our part a coup de force. I reply – as you pointed out, Mrs Grandjean – that we are carrying out this reform with the necessary precautions, taking the time to conduct structural changes and to take account of the concerns of the professionals. Several of you, including Messrs. Lurton, Viry and Perrut addressed the issue of family allowances. First of all, I cannot let it be said that this PLFSS would be unfavourable to families. In total, in 2018, almost €90 million in additional expenditure will be made available for families.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u321	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u322	It's inflation, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u323	I would like to remind you, Mrs Gaillot, that these additional expenses will first and foremost benefit families who need them most, particularly single-parent families. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Finally, the question of the universality of rights was raised. In my view, this is not the right way to address the issue. It is not necessary to stir up totems or taboos, but to think together about the objectives of our family policy and the best tools we must equip ourselves to achieve them. However, these objectives are multiple: to reconcile family and working life, to compensate for the burdens resulting from the birth of children, and to help the poorest families to live better. All these objectives are legitimate, but current family policy does not necessarily allow them to be pursued satisfactorily. There is therefore a need for a calm and in-depth debate. I am pleased that your Committee on Social Affairs has decided to carry out a mission on this subject. Mrs Elimas, you have said that you are committed to family policy and I have heard you well. I am pleased that you are participating in the open discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u324	I now call the articles of the bill in the Government's text, beginning with the provisions for the 2016 fiscal year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u325	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u326	Article 1 sets out the balance table, by branch, of all the basic compulsory social security schemes. Your predecessor, Madam Minister, had announced, at the beginning of the previous quinquennium, "the end of social deficits, through structural reforms, to better meet the needs of the French"; We're a long way from the point of view. I had the opportunity to demonstrate this in the report on the implementation of the Social Security Funding Act for 2017, which I co-authored with the rapporteur-general; The Social Security Audit Committee has confirmed this, as has the Court of Auditors. With a €1.3 billion gap between the forecast presented to us last year and the forecast of implementation for 2017, we are still far from the return to the balance announced – also far from the presentation made to us by the previous government, on the basis of a return to the balance of social accounts totally wrong. We were right, as far as we are concerned, to denounce this speech. All of us here could find ourselves on this principle: it is unsatisfactory, if not unacceptable, that the national representation voted last year on a forecast of a health insurance deficit estimated at 2.6 billion euros, before finding, in the middle of the financial year, that the deficit actually amounts to 4.1 billion euros. This error of method distracts us from the urgent need to carry out important structural reforms, on the basis of a more sincere presentation. This is the choice we are asking you to make for future Social Security funding bills. [[Applause on a few benches in the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] You have announced to the press this weekend, Madam Minister, your main directions in the field of health. We will examine them as openly as possible, without partisan spirit, but without depriving ourselves of criticizing them when they seem unwise, always with the aim of ensuring a sound financial base. That is also what we expect of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u327	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u328	Article 1 contains a rather strange formula: "balancing table". There is certainly an improvement in degradation, or a slowdown in the race to the abyss. Let us agree, however, that this is nothing to rejoice at! Let us be honest: the last governments have made efforts, certainly too mediocre, to try to improve the situation. However, the foundations of these developments are not sufficiently questioned. In 2015, there were 23,6316 marriages for 1,3668 divorces. Again in decline, fertility was 1.93 children per woman in 2016. Demography is the mother of politics – at least for those who remember that society is a family of families, not a balanced picture. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] The figures are therefore overwhelming. If we do not emerge from the political correctness to consider the family causes of social security deficits, we will never achieve balance. Of course, when one senses the question of the universality of family allowances, one understands that this awareness is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u329	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u330	Under the pretext of balancing at all costs, it is a dehumanized text whose examination we begin, filled with indicators that do not reflect the experience lived, especially that of the medical actors. Called to speak on the 2016 Social Security accounts, I will not go into accounting details. On the other hand, I would point out that the price of these beautiful paintings are breathless hospitals, overcrowded caregivers, and sometimes ill-treated patients. This funding policy sometimes results from suicides.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u331	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u332	Yes, our Social Security is sick. But she is not sick of this debt, which you are calling back to us because of the European demands to cut public spending at all costs, out of any kind of logic. It is not the cost of health and solidarity that bothers you, because the United States is doing much worse than we are with a health care system that costs them 17% of their GDP. What bothers you is that our health care system is public. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] France will not take part in the Grand Mass, which will be to welcome the end of the deficit by 2022. What we want is the end of the human deficit, the health deficit, the lack of healthy working conditions, the lack of compassion. It is against these deficits that we are wind up. We will vote against Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u333	With pride!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u334	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u335	This article highlights the improvement in the balances of the general system and the accuracy and sincerity of the accounts certified by the Court of Auditors. The figures go in the right direction as they demonstrate the continuation of debt resorption, backed by a responsible but ambitious budget. And it's not just about returning to the balance of social accounts to preserve our social model. It is a matter of respecting budgetary commitments while ensuring strong measures in favour of purchasing power and the most fragile. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the REM group]] You know our group's commitment to sound public expenditure management and our determination not to let debt weigh on future generations. It is therefore quite naturally that we will vote for this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u336	Mr Gilles Lurton, on Rule 2, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u337	With Article 2, we approve the report in Appendix A, which outlines the heritage status of social security plans and agencies, and describes the modalities for coverage of deficits in 2016. I recalled in my speech on Article 1, the general system deficit reached EUR 4.1 billion in 2016, mainly attributable to the disease branch, for 4.8 billion, and to the family branch, for a total of 1 billion – this is expected to be balanced in 2019. The branches of old age and accidents at work and occupational diseases generated surpluses of EUR 0.9 billion and EUR 0.8 billion respectively. In addition, the Old Age Solidarity Fund had a deficit of €3.6 billion. It is therefore the deficit of the disease branch that must remain our main concern, our guiding thread in the choices to be made in the years to come. With respect to these choices, Minister, you have announced your willingness to accelerate the development of telemedicine. We will follow you along this path, even though we know that this will not solve everything, neither in terms of medical desertification nor in terms of the financing of social security. You have also announced that you want to make significant savings in the public hospital, by developing the ambulance and avoiding repeated acts. We are concerned about these guidelines because we find them limited in terms of the quality of care provided to those who have been received in hospital, as well as in terms of the exhaustion of staff. The financial situation of the public hospital is not good. In this connection, I refer you to the information report presented by our colleague Gisèle Biémouret during the previous parliamentary term. On the other hand, I fully agree with your choice to give up the generalised paying third party. I understood today that it would only be very temporary, and I regret it. For our part, we fought against this measure with all our strength during the discussion of the bill to modernize our health care system, and we have not changed our minds since then. It is a good lesson in humility for the future: a reform against the unanimous opinion of health professionals is not successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u338	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u339	CADES, the Social Debt Depreciation Fund, is responsible for receiving, year after year, deficits from the various branches of the general scheme and the Old Age Solidarity Fund. A report by ATTAC dated 16 September 2017 tells us that CADES is allowed to speculate on currency exchange rates and futures markets: it issues bonds and issues commercial papers without any control, notably in the City of London or Luxembourg. At a time when many serious economists agree that the lack of regulation and financialization could lead to a crisis of a scale comparable to that of 2008, it would be healthy and timely to sanctify the CADES and remove it from this unhealthy game. But, rather than framing these speculations, successive governments preferred to increase the CSG, affecting the most vulnerable. As the population grows and ages, they have made contribution exemptions, further weakening our health care system. The current government is in line with this policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u340	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-24-O1025.u341	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Continuation of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018. The meeting is adjourned.
