ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u1	I'm going to suspend the meeting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u2	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u3	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u4	We discuss the review of appropriations for the missions "Management of public finances and human resources", "Public action and transformation", "Unallocated appropriations" and "Social and pension schemes", as well as appropriations for the special allocation accounts "Management of the State's real estate assets" and "pensions". (No 273, Annexes 25, 26, 27 and 35; No 276, Volume IV; No 278, Volume II.) The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, you will be aware of the various missions that we are now going to examine, and which I have the honour to conduct, that cannot be exempt from the effort that the Minister of Public Accounts is asking each of the ministers who follow this rostrum. What would the minister responsible for public accounts be the name of, if it did not apply to himself, as to his administration, the efforts and ambitions of transformation that he affirms for all and that he tries to implement under the authority of the Prime Minister? That is why, as you have seen, the appropriations of the mission "Management of public finances and human resources", relating to the means of operation and investment of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts, are stable compared to 2017, at 10.9 billion euros. This effort is largely due to the 1450 downsizing within the department, even though there have already been significant downsizings, as has been said in the committee. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the public service officers in my department, and in particular to the officers of the Public Finance Branch – FIPB – who demonstrate, year after year, their ability to best serve the interests of the public, while actively participating in the correction of our accounts. Several examples will suffice to convince you, ladies and gentlemen, that we can transform the country and provide better public service with fewer agents, but with more efficient computer and digital services. The DGFIP has been able to demonstrate, as you know, and all the French see it, of a modernity before the hour, of which it is now reaping the fruits. Similarly, customs, which are now confronted with new tasks, as a result of the re-establishment of Brexit-induced controls and the terrorist threat, are contributing to the objective of controlling public employment without sacrificing these essential tasks, in particular through the redeployment of human resources and the digital transformation of our administration. This improvement in productivity, however, is only made possible over time by the modernization of our administration and its methods of operation. That is why the investment appropriations that enable my Ministry's IT and digital projects to be carried out are up by 38% – plus 52 million euros. Everyone perceives the limits of the policy of the plan, whether it be public officials, trade union organizations, who have told me, or even the executives of my administration. We must now engage in a real transformation, choose the public policies we want to pursue and the public service we want to render to the French. This is the whole meaning of Public Action 2022, which the Prime Minister asked me to lead with him. For the first time, we will examine in depth the entire scope of public action, namely the State and operators, social security administrations and local and regional authorities. What tasks must be carried out today by the public authorities? How? With what means? These are the questions we must ask ourselves. While the general review of public policies – the RGPP – and the modernisation of public action – MAP – have enabled substantial efforts to be made in terms of control over public finances, if they may have prompted some administrations to transform, the non-replacement of one in two or three public servants does not appear to us to be the solution and we will change the way we do it. This approach covers, as you know, three objectives: first, an improvement in the quality of public service for users; a further improvement in working conditions for public service employees; A reduction in public spending, finally, for taxpayers. I want to reiterate here that transformation must allow us to make economies of scale while improving public service. Other countries have done so, and the Italian example is quite interesting in this respect. To do this, we have a priority lever, which I share with Mounir Mahjoubi, that of digital transformation. For the first time in the history of the Republic – let us dare focus! – 700 million euros are spent on it in the draft finance law, including 200 million euros of commitment authorisations from 2018. Our country is rich in its public service. I would like to highlight the excellent work of parliamentarians who are interested in this issue and to commend, through them, all the elected representatives of the Republic and the officials of the administration who have wished to participate, together with national representation, in the remarkable work of the special rapporteurs. I will have the opportunity to come back to this when we consider the amendments. I would like to say before the national representation how proud we are all of the remarkable work that public officials do in the service of our fellow citizens, whether it is the territorial civil service, which I have known well as mayor, the state civil service, which I now command, at my modest level or, of course, the hospital civil service. I am deeply committed to social dialogue in the public service and we have had about 30 meetings for the past six months. Since the day I took on my responsibilities, telling the truth to public officials is, it seems to me, the first sign of respect, and I know that they have heard it, even if they do not always share my view of reform. Through dialogue, I am sure we will be able to prepare for action. The truth is that the budgetary situation in our country has led us to freeze the point of index for this year...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u6	Thank you for closing, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u7	... to postpone the implementation of the protocol "Professional Paths, Careers and Remunerations – PPCR", and to restore the day of deficiency. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As for the training of public officials, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, this draft finance bill devotes him extremely important appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u8	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u9	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, for this first budget of the legislature, my special report covers two missions: the mission "Management of public finances and human resources", which traces the appropriations of most of the directorates and agencies of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts, and the new mission "Action et transformation publique", created by the Government to accompany the modernization of the State within the framework of the Programme Public Action 2022. For the first mission, the payment appropriations proposed for the 156, 218 and 302 programmes are down slightly, by EUR 4 million, compared to the original 2017 finance law; This will bring them to EUR 10.65 billion in 2018. This saving is allowed by a sharp reduction in staff costs, of almost 70 million euros: the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – will make 1702 full-time equivalents worked – ETPT – while the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties – DGDDI – will see its staff increased to 286 ETPT, particularly in the context of the preparation of Brexit. These administrations have made significant gains in productivity by modernising their organization, tools and working methods. The dematerialization of tax reporting and payment, the consolidation of local revenues and the development of targeting techniques have made it possible to adapt State action and maintain robust results in a constrained budgetary context. DGFIP and DGDDI are leading their reorganization processes very well, but in the short term. This situation must change. These administrations do not have a real human resources policy, and the restructuring of the territorial network is managed in short sight, even though this subject is crucial for the continuity of the public service. It also seems to me essential to increase exchanges between directorates, between administrations and between ministries. In the fight against tax evasion, too often there is little cooperation between administrations. This has gone on for too long, and I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the need to streamline the exchange of information and to improve the IT tools that our different jurisdictions need – as you mentioned. In order to accompany future changes as much as possible, I believe that a strategic review of the missions of these administrations is necessary. The Government launched this project with the creation of the Public Action Programme 2022. I support this approach and welcome, in this regard, the creation of the "Public Action and Transformation" mission. With €1.7 billion over five years, it will enable investments to generate sustainable savings, in order to improve the quality of the service rendered and to optimize public spending. Program 348 "Renovation of Administrative Cities and Other Multi-Occupant Government Sites" aims to improve the energy performance of buildings and reduce maintenance costs. It will have EUR 1 billion in payment appropriations by 2022. I stress, minister, the relevance of the chosen approach: 2018 will be dedicated to the realization of a diagnosis, which will allow to define the state of the housing stock and the needs of the public service. In these circumstances, I think it is necessary to take time to ensure that the expenditure achieved is effective. Program 349 "Public Action Transformation Fund" will be the arm of the Public Action Committee 2022. The obstacles to productive investment in the public sphere are known: fiscal annuality introduces a strong short-term bias; sectoral ministries are struggling to get the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts to accept long-term investment projects; reorganizations are difficult to conduct. The creation of this inter-ministerial fund, with €700 million over five years, including €200 million in commitment authorisations as early as 2018, will, I hope, free itself from these difficulties, which have hampered the modernisation of public action for too long. I hope, Minister, that you will come to this House regularly to present the progress of this project, the concrete achievements and the gains achieved. In this regard, I support the idea that the evaluation of public policies must return to a central place in the work of the Government and Parliament. In my report, I made several proposals to revitalize the role of the Special Rapporteur. I hope that it will fully exploit the powers conferred on it by the Organic Act on Finance Laws – LOLF – and that the time for control, far from focusing only on the fall, will extend throughout the year, particularly during the consideration of the proposed Regulations. In a report tabled in 1881, Mr Henri Brisson, then chairman of the Committee on the Budget, said: "The House discusses the forecasts, votes on the probable expenses, but in reality the expenditure that is made escapes it [...] no one is there to check whether the thought that presided over the preparation of the budget has been faithfully obeyed. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The subject is known. Minister, I know your government's determination to improve the budgetary procedure. This is a vast project, but I have confidence in our common determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u12	Mrs Cendra Motin, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u13	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the 148 "Public Service" programme, which I have resumed this year in the context of my report, contains three inter-ministerial actions: the training of officers, inter-ministerial social action and learning. It shows part of the overall human resources strategy implemented by the Administration and Public Service Branch – AFPB – which became the Human Resources Directorate – HRD – of the Crown. The 148 programme will weigh in full just over €239 million in payment appropriations and commitment authorisations in 2018, plus 2.94 million aid funds. It is a budget that is stable compared to 2017, despite the delays in implementation that it must take into account. With regard to the action "Training of officials", the budgets of the regional administrative institutes – IRA – and the National School of Administration – ENA – are consistent with the objectives set for each institution. Particular attention is being paid this year to the ENA, which must demonstrate its structural change, through the diversification of its revenues, as well as cultural change, in order to ensure that the frameworks it forms are among the actors of change initiated by the Government. The international reach of the ENA, whose excellence is widely recognized, enables it to train not only our senior officials, but also those of many countries in Europe and around the world. This international recognition is an increasingly important source of income. We must encourage and support the development of both the training of foreign civil servants and continuing vocational training. Both contributed EUR 5.4 million to the ENA budget in 2016. As part of Public Action 2022, consideration will be given to how to provide a modernized working environment for public servants. In addition to the HRD of the state, which is a major player in this process of accompaniment to change, ENA students will have a full place in this reflection. Moreover, it is foreseen that this will fully involve all agents in the definition and follow-up of future transformations. As regards inter-ministerial social action, which accounts for half of the programme's budget, the trend is, as last year, declining. However, this reduction should be relativized as the actions carried out through this budget support the specific actions of each ministry. Efforts therefore continue to be made to maintain individual and collective benefits for all staff. It seems to me important, in a civil service with very disparate trades and budgets, to make this social action fund a real global human resources tool for the promotion of equality between women and men, personal development and social innovation. In this regard, I would like to welcome the creation of two new funds, each with EUR 1 million, one for innovation in human resources and the other for improving working conditions. Finally, the third action concerns learning. Created in 2016, it remains at a stable budget level, with almost 30 million euros. With a view to raising awareness of public service trades and attracting new talent, it would seem interesting to allow the Public Service Human Resources Directorate (PSAB) to continue to promote learning by providing financial support for related contracts in the various departments. From this point of view, it would seem equally interesting to consider a possible simplification of the administrative formalities related to these contracts and the relevance of retaining the CAPTE scheme – a career path for the territorial, hospital and state civil service – which is in direct competition with apprenticeship contracts. The major changes in the public service and the resulting management issues, the promotion of innovative social policies and the support of the integration of new talents are all projects that will have to be carried out by the State HRD. A comprehensive human resources strategy for the three sides of the public service should continue to be developed and deployed. The Public Action 2022 programme will be, from this point of view, an essential meeting to imagine and think together about the public services of tomorrow. A word, finally, on the unallocated appropriations, endowed for 2018 with 714.5 million euros in commitment authorisations and 414.5 million in payment appropriations. They will, among other things, absorb some 290.5 million of the CSG's increase compensation schemes for all employees in the three public offices. As the total cost of this increase is higher, the Government will also propose, in order to ensure the maintenance of the net salary of agents, the abolition of the exceptional contribution of solidarity and a revision of the payroll budgets of each ministry. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] In conclusion, I would like to point out, as has been repeatedly stated, that the title of the report is misleading: it might suggest that the payroll of public servants, which is still the first item of expenditure of the State, with a budget of EUR 130 billion excluding operators, is the main subject. But that is not the case. Moreover, to date, no report has made an overall analysis of the wage bill for public services. With a PSB that has become HRD of the state and strategic projects to be carried out for all three sides of the public service, it seems to me that this overall vision is becoming highly relevant. That is why I would like to renew today's request in my report: to create a budgetary annex outlining the evolution of the government's aggregate wage bill, which would be tabled at the same time as the annual performance projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u14	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u15	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the missions and programmes just presented, the special allocation account – CAS – "Management of the State's real estate assets" will appear to you, first of all, secondary. In fact, the draft finance law for 2018 envisages setting its expenditure and revenue to some 581.7 million euros in payment appropriations. This allocation is down 0.56% from the 2017 forecast, and its share is declining: in 2018, it will represent only 7.46% of the resources allocated to real estate expenditure in the general budget. However, budgetary instruments should not necessarily be judged on the basis of the expenditure they authorize. As you know, the CAS includes capital and operating expenditures related to real estate or owner-maintenance operations carried out by the Crown. It also provides for capital and operating expenditure which corresponds to transactions in the transfer, acquisition or construction of buildings in the domain of the State. Finally, since the abolition of the 309 programme, it has financed owner-maintenance operations carried out by public institutions or other State operators. Through the scope of its interventions and its financing, the CAS thus presents itself as one of the tools for the affirmation of a genuine inter-ministerial policy which must encourage administrations and operators to achieve two objectives: on the one hand, the rationalisation of the real estate assets of the State and its operators; On the other hand, efficient and cost-effective management of the park. My report acknowledges the progress made thanks to the renewed impulses of the State's real estate management. However, the trips I made to New Aquitaine and then to Brittany, as well as the hearings of many ministerial officials, lead me to believe that the CAS alone cannot satisfy the ambition expressed in the construction of a real estate policy of the State. It calls for resolute action and cannot be reduced to purely budgetary considerations. That is why, at the end of my work, I conclude that it is necessary to go beyond the first steps and I would like to call for the vigilance of the public authorities on a number of issues which are essential to the deepening of a fully-fledged public policy. The first issue of course lies in the balance of the CAS. Of course, the integration of the former 724 "Decentralized Real Estate Operations" program into the 723 "Real Estate Operations and Maintenance of Government Buildings" program facilitates the simplification of budgetary and accounting channels. But the finance bill for 2018 mainly takes note of the expected decline in the proceeds of real estate divestitures. The target of €491.7 million appears to be consistent with the revenue generated in recent years and with the scarcity of readily transferable assets in a less promising real estate market. This can only lead to a reflection on the use of state fees, whose expected revenue – €90 million – increases by 5.88% in the proposed finance bill. The second issue is the ability to maintain and evolve the state's housing stock, a heterogeneous heritage that requires recurrent operations of standardization and accessibility. This raises the question of the resources allocated to the maintenance of our assets, while the appropriations for the maintenance of buildings fall by 1.68%, but it also leads us to question the preservation of "building" engineering skills. The third issue is also about means: the positioning of the government's real estate management and the resources available to the deconcentrated services responsible for real estate policy at the local level. Should the government's real estate management be linked to the minister responsible for the estate? How can the staff of all the regional services of the State contribute to the management of its heritage? So many questions we will have to answer. The last issue seems to me to be the most decisive: it is, in the broadest sense, the exploitation of the real estate assets of public persons. Under this rather broad expression, I first include all the questions that can be inspired by the haircut authorized by the Act of 18 January 2013 on the mobilization of public land. No one is unaware of the criticisms surrounding the use of this device. At the very least, I believe it is up to us to ensure that it is used more proportionately in the territory of local and regional authorities with a strong capacity for self-financing. Secondly and above all, the optimisation of the State's real estate assets cannot be reduced to the only alternative between the maintenance of the occupation of goods by its services or their sale. In my view, the State's interest is to make more frequent use of mechanisms that, such as emhyteotic leases, construction leases or other legal instruments, allow it to retain ownership of its property while promoting its exploitation by investors, and thus to collect recurring annual rents. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] As I said, the state's real estate policy is now being affirmed as a fully-fledged public policy. It is up to us to give it today – especially in the final phase of the development of regional master plans – a real roadmap and to refine its tools. In this context, I will, of course, vote for the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u16	Mr Olivier Damaisin, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u17	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, the state will spend €64.7 billion on financing a dozen special pension schemes. This expenditure is more than 90 per cent devoted to the payment of civil and military retirement pensions, as well as to the payment of State workers' pensions. They are located in the Pensions Trust Account. The remaining 10%, or €6.3 billion, corresponds to the subsidies that the State will provide in 2018 to special pension schemes which are unable to self-finance themselves: the RATP and SNCF schemes, that of sailors, but also the "closed" schemes which now have only a handful of pensioners. These are the credits from the Social and Pension Plans Mission. With regard to the special public service scheme, pension expenditure increased by almost 1.5% in 2018, as a result of an increase in the number of pensioners. This is more than the rate of expenditure growth observed since 2014. Nevertheless, this increase is expected to be painless from the state budget. Indeed, it will be offset, on the revenue side, by an increase in the wage premium rate of 0.27 percentage points compared to 2017, resulting in a surplus balance of 2.4 billion euros. This is the effect of the decree of 30 December 2010, which provided for the gradual alignment of the contribution effort of civil servants with that of private sector employees. It will therefore not be necessary to increase the contribution of the State employer in 2018. In the coming years, this increase in pension spending is expected to continue, not as the number of pensioners continues to increase – it is expected to decrease even more – but the amount of pensions will be higher. This is the result of the salary increases decided in recent years, which are also at the heart of the agreement on the modernisation of career paths, careers and remuneration – PPCR. The state's balance subsidies to pension funds operating under the other special schemes will also rise sharply in 2018, which will have a full impact on the state budget: an additional €24 million is foreseen compared to 2017. If the subsidy paid to balance the special scheme for seamen's pensions remains stable, and those for closed schemes fall by almost 3% compared to 2017, the subsidies paid to RATP and SNCF are up by almost EUR 60 million. The estimated amount of the grant paid to the RATP staff pension fund thus increases from €680 million in 2017 to €709 million in 2018, an increase of 4.2% over 2017. As for the grant dedicated to the balance of SNCF's special pension scheme, it reached €3.28 billion in 2018. It thus increased by 30 million euros compared to 2017, after having increased by 38 million euros the previous year. In addition, the line is systematically under-budgeted and, each year since 2015, it has been necessary to find additional funding during the year, through credit transfers or thaws. Minister, once again, this draft budget for 2018 shows that special pension plans weigh heavily on the state budget. These schemes cannot be self-financing, as they have a much higher number of pensioners than the number of contributors. Reductions in the number of retirees are involved, but also the factors that contribute to the increase in the number of retirees. These factors are the increase in life expectancy, which delays the withdrawal of pensions, and the rules for the liquidation of pensions. Thus, the age of entitlement and the length of insurance required for a full rate remain more advantageous than under the general scheme, so that the average retirement age is 55 years for RATP staff and 57 years for SNCF staff, while the average retirement age is 62 years for employees of the general scheme. This is clearly the limits of parametric reforms in recent years, with a view to convergence with the civil service system. These special schemes are a legacy from before 1945, the date of the creation of social security. It has been a long time since they no longer justified them and, moreover, they are no longer accepted by the public. That is why I welcome the Executive's plan to carry out a major reform of the pension system. The aim will be to harmonize the many existing schemes, in order to establish a universal system of distributed pensions, with the same rules for the liquidation of pensions for all, which will not prevent account being taken of cases where early retirement remains justified for the most difficult occupations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u18	Thank you for concluding, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u19	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I know that the High Commissioner for the Reform of Pensions, Jean-Paul Delevoye, must, as a first step, carry out a consultation with the social partners, and that a framework law will then be presented to Parliament in the first half of 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u20	Mrs Corinne Vignon, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u21	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that the Social Affairs Committee, in considering a finance bill, has taken up the appropriations of the Social and Pension Schemes mission, as well as the Pensions special allocation account, for its opinion. Our committee has chosen to innovate because it felt it was important to look at the so-called "special" schemes, with a view to the systemic reform of our pension systems that was announced in the President of the Republic's programme. It is clear from the work that I have led that the call for solidarity can be justified for the regimes marked by a high demographic imbalance, which are struggling to self-finance themselves. Nevertheless, it is difficult to be satisfied with the persistence of some old advantages, which ultimately rely mainly on the national community. Despite successive parametric reforms, the pension schemes of SNCF and RATP are now subsidized three-fifths by the State, and that of sailors is even nearly 80%. At the same time, I note that, under the RATP scheme, a number of pension liquidation rules allow, in particular for rolling staff, to retire from 45 years of age or even without any age conditions. Under the same scheme, the average length of service of the pension – about 40 years – is greater than the average duration of activity – barely 35 years – which proves that the penitibility of the work does not cause an early overmortality. In the seamen's pension scheme, which dates back to 1647, contributions are determined from twenty categories taking into account criteria such as age, qualification, the responsibilities of seamen, but also the tonnage, power or size of vessels. To add to the complexity, each of these twenty categories is sub-divided into functions, with a total number of 210. Several of the people interviewed agreed that the limits of a system had been reached. The time therefore seems to me to implement Emmanuel Macron's proposal to create "a universal pension scheme by distribution, where a contributory euro gives the same rights,... whatever the status of the contributor." However, such a reform cannot, in my view, lead to a pure and simple alignment of all schemes with the general system, or to a decal of the Swedish model of notional accounts. In my view, the particularities of certain schemes remain fully justified. This is the case with the military pension system, the singularities of which are the translation of a public policy aimed at guaranteeing the youth and physical fitness of our armies, the "pyramiding" of the troops, the compensation of availability at all times, in all places and under all circumstances, as well as difficult hardships up to the supreme sacrifice. This deserves to be meditated, at a time when the gendarmerie will be forced to renew its staff massively. Of the 100,000 gendarmes currently serving, 54,000 will retire in the next five years. Retired soldiers are far from being wealthy: half of the non-commissioned members receive a pension of less than €774 per month; In 2016, close to 10,000 military personnel ceased their duties without entitlement to a pension. Military and gendarmes often retire in a deteriorated physical and mental state. Simulations conducted by the Department of Armed Forces measured the magnitude of the losses that would result from the move to the notional accounts system, which would result in a 72% decrease in the pension amount of non-commissioned members. It therefore seems to me imperative, with a view to systemic reform, not to reduce the question of fairness to that of uniformity of rules. I would therefore like to know whether, in the context of the work on the prefiguration of this reform, account will be taken of the difficulties inherent in the military condition, because they are too often forgotten. I will conclude by quoting a portrait of the gendarmes by General Ambert, more than a century ago: "I saw the gendarme [...] reconcile disputes like the justice of the peace; "I saw him fight like the warrior; [...] "You slept and he was watching; You rejoiced in the feasts, and he, standing at the dark corner, protected your joy. "He has an eye on your house, on your field, on your gold, on your rest, [...] [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] "He is nothing to you, and you are everything to him. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u22	Mrs Emilie Chalas, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u23	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, special rapporteurs and for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion on the appropriations for the "Public Service" programme on behalf of the Committee on Laws, I would like to focus my speech on the strategy for the piloting and transformation of public services and the public service for the period from 2018 to 2022. The question no longer arises as to whether the current scope of public service missions is still appropriate, but rather to determine which ones we consider to be priorities for concentrating resources, and which structure is the most legitimate or the best placed to carry out these missions. The question of the entanglement of competences seems crucial to me if quality service is to be provided at a lower cost. In my report for an opinion, I give several examples pointing out that, for the same public policy implemented in a department, more than fifteen or even thirty different actors are required to intervene in order to respond to users. I make three proposals to streamline these situations. Once this work has been completed – and only after – it will be necessary to draw the consequences on the workforce and the evolution of the wage bill of the civil service, particularly in view of the objective, set by the President of the Republic, to reduce the number of public officials by about 120000 by 2022. This is the whole purpose of the "Public Action 2022" process, launched by the Prime Minister on 13 October. In addition to the ambition of an innovative method of transforming public administration from the point of view of the user, the public official and the taxpayer in a positive sense, this process is accompanied by a fund of €700 million over five years to finance the means of this transformation, within the framework of the Grand Plan of Investment. I also welcome the Government's commitment to better involve parliamentarians as the principal managers of the territorial civil service and the hospital civil service in CAP22's work, in accordance with the first proposal of my report for an opinion. It seems to me important to stress that the success of the process of transformation of our public services requires that we rely on different levers of change and thus avoid falling into pitfalls regarding the assessment of the efforts to be made by each side of the public service in terms of the reduction of the workforce and the wage bill. In particular, I would like to recall that the trend in the number of staff between the three sides of the public service has reversed since 2015. While hospital and territorial public services grew at a high rate between 2005 and 2015, in contrast to the state civil service, the situation has been reversed over the past two years: the numbers are beginning to fall in local authorities and the pace of growth in hospital and medical and social staff has been halved, while the rate of growth in the state has been very much up again in 2016 and 2017. Despite these efforts, the wage bill on all three sides of the public service has continued to grow as a result of general measures – an increase in the index point or career paths, careers and salaries. The downsizing of the public service cannot therefore be an end in itself, but must necessarily be linked to an objective of reducing the public wage bill. It must also be conducted finely, as the room for manoeuvre is not the same within each administration. In local and regional authorities in particular, the contracting approach proposed by the Government to reduce their operating costs is particularly relevant from this point of view. I propose, moreover, to take advantage of this in order to lead them to act also on the working time, in order to reach the 1607 annual hours and thus achieve savings. I also believe that we will have to carry out an evaluation of the recent territorial reforms in order to further simplify our territorial millennium before the end of the quinquennium. Finally, if we really want to transform public action and redefine the scope of public service tasks, it seems to me essential to involve all public officials as upstream as possible. The challenge is enormous because, according to the results of a survey conducted on October 10, 2017, public officials suffer from a lack of recognition to which the only answer, if any, is of a salary nature. Unfortunately, this survey reveals a major lack of human resources management on all three sides of the public service. I therefore make several proposals which pursue three objectives. The first is the recognition of the contribution of public officials to the creation of national wealth through the public service rendered: to this end, it is necessary to stop opposing the public sector from the private sector. The second is the political reinvestment of the human resources issue: within the public service of the Crown, the recent recognition of the AFPB – Administration and Public Service Branch – as "Government HRD" must now materialize. On the other sides, middle management needs to be strengthened and managers need to have better tools to activate motivational and recognition levers for their agents. The third objective is to improve the quality of life at work and the training of public officials. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In this context, it is first and foremost necessary for the "bashing official" to cease in France. Second, the Government's proposed waiting day scheme could be improved to focus only on abusive behaviour, on the one hand, and to protect pregnant women public officials, on the other. Finally, concrete actions could easily be taken to create territorial pools of public training and employment and to promote chosen rather than experienced mobility. I refer you to the twelve proposals in my report for an opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u24	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Jean-François Parigi, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u25	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the mission "Management of Public Finance and Human Resources" of the 2018 Finance Bill reinforces recent developments in the administration, and in particular in the FIPB. It is, as you will have understood, the dematerialisation and simplification of procedures to improve the service to the user, while at the same time strengthening the trust between the latter and the administration, with less human and financial resources. In short, to do better with less. While this digital shift seems indispensable to the effort to control public finances, it must not ignore other considerations that may go against it. On the subject of dematerialisation, first of all, this budget lowers the thresholds at which online reporting is mandatory. However, Minister, many of our fellow citizens do not have access to the Internet as easily as you and I do, either because they live in those areas which, in 2017, still do not have access to the Internet, or because its use is too complex for them. Excuse them! So shouldn't you and your colleagues start by guaranteeing internet access to everyone before you generalize the payment of tax online? And, if they can't hope that your agents will be understanding about them, what have you actually planned for the least broken taxpayers on the internet? The so-called kick-start measures would be welcome, such as longer reporting periods, the provision of technical assistance by reception services, and even exemptions for some. The transition to digital technology is not possible without transitional and accompanying measures. Secondly, as regards the strengthening of trust between the user and the tax administration, can you tell us where the preparatory work on the reform of the right to error is and how it will be done? However, this reform should not be the last response to the main problem of fiscal insecurity, in the continuity of the surge in taxpayers' rights and guarantees for them. For several years, we have been witnessing a crisis in the tax standard due to inflation, instability and complexity. Our tax system is totally unreadable for some taxpayers. And if the rescript and the right to error mark a breakthrough in this area, perhaps you should also consider making the tax standard more satisfactory; In other words, to ensure that the taxpayer does not make the mistake. With regard to the downsizing of DGFIP, with the abolition of almost 1500 full-time equivalents, the 2018 budget is also in line with previous budgets. This is a far-reaching reduction from the perspective of other government departments, since the total reduction in the number of public jobs in the public service as a whole amounts to 1600. Mr Minister, I am not blaming the Government for not eliminating enough public jobs, on the contrary, especially after the Prime Minister announced the abolition of 120,000 posts in five years – we are far from it! Let me just ask myself about your ministry's ability to absorb such a cut in its workforce, which comes after many others in recent years. Is it really linked to the productivity gains allowed by the dematerialization process? Or is it the choice of ease? The workforce needs to be reduced intelligently, as some economies cost the state more than they do. As you know, your administration must work on the implementation of the source levy as of January 1, 2019: however, this is not a small matter. Beyond its cost to businesses and the many difficulties in terms of confidentiality, especially for SMEs, its implementation seems particularly laborious for the administrative services that are already working there since 2015! That is the complexity of this reform, which is more and more like a gas plant. Finally, with respect to the "Social and Pension Plans" mission, it must be admitted that the increased funding needs of some pension plans are a matter of concern. The imbalance between contributors and pensioners obliges the State to contribute to these closed schemes in a worrying way. Without reform, funding needs should continue to increase and thus have a lasting impact on government finances. Jean-Paul Delevoye was appointed High Commissioner for Pension Reform: is the issue of these pension plans included in his road map? What are you looking at to stop this increase? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, if "to say anything is the exclusive of the opposition," the government's policy seems to be to take action without any consultation or transitional measures. This was the case with the abolition of aided contracts. Understand, therefore, that, without your specific answers to the questions that these missions call, the Republican Group will abstain from voting on these credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u26	Words different from what Gilles Carrez would have said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u27	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u28	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, simplification and dematerialization are significant sources of productivity gains, which allow the mission to achieve significant accounting savings, and that is so much better. We must continue to do so because it helps to liberate our country. However, if it is right to release, it is necessary, in return, to protect or at least accompany. For if simplification is also a source of time saving for those given with the end of the paper, it can rhyme with anxiety for others. In this process of dematerialization, it seems necessary to pay particular attention to the most vulnerable populations, to those who do not have the computer tools, knowledge or skills to benefit from dematerialization, and to ensure that support and alternative solutions are actually provided for these populations. I am thinking of these thousands of seniors, whom we receive in our permanences or in the CCAS – communal centres of social action – who are in good faith but who, since 2016, have not become accustomed to declaring their income on the Internet and are embarrassed when, in front of the administration, they do not find their statements. I am thinking of people who are far from employment and often far from digital. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the tremendous work done by the Employment Houses, which are working to bridge the digital divide that dematerialization can excavate. My question is simple: have you planned to assess the conflicts and procedures that dematerialization will bring about? At a time when administrations – I'm thinking of tax administration in particular – are squeezing our towns and the capitals, what have you imagined to accompany those who live digital and dematerialization as obstacles? I would also like to draw your attention to one point which concerns human resources in particular: the recruitment of black hussars from the Republic, those who have the heavy burden of educating and learning young people in order to prepare them to become responsible and informed citizens. I am obviously referring, Mr Minister, to the Court of Auditors' report of 4 October, which describes the system of teacher management through national education as rigid, expensive and inefficient, which has direct consequences for our territories and the curriculum of the pupils. Everyone can verify this by going to schools, colleges or high schools: if there is, no doubt, a crisis of vocations, it is not the only reason. Mr Minister, your colleague Jean-Michel Blanquer has already taken steps that are in the right direction, such as recruiting a new HRD. Nothing should be done in haste, I agree. However, you are aware of our commitment to national education and this is a matter of concern to the members of the MODEM and related groups: these management problems cannot continue to tarnish the image of this institution or, above all, its effectiveness. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] It is because we are convinced that you will be able to meet the challenge of dematerialisation and find solutions to enable our public services to be more effective, that the MODEM and related group will obviously vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u29	Mrs Lise Magnier spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u30	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the mission of "Public Finance and Human Resources Management" is characterized by a major part of the appropriations relating to payroll and operating appropriations linked, in particular, to the networks of the Public Finance Branch and the General Directorate of Customs and Indirect Fees. With regard to the payroll, if the Constructive Group welcomes the efforts of your administration, Minister, to reduce its workforce, we would obviously have liked a similar effort on the part of all the ministries. Without condoning a purely accounting vision, we find it insufficient to control the wage bill, so that this situation of weak control worries us about the fulfilment of the commitment of the President of the Republic to reduce the number of civil servants by 120000 by the end of the quinquennium. The redefinition of public policies within the framework of the Public Action Committee 2022, which you are piloting, will necessarily have to determine the adequacy of human and financial resources to the revised missions of the State. We hope that a downward trend in the number of public servants will be established. However, this control of the public wage bill, both for the State and for local and regional authorities, will require, above all, a major reform of the civil service and the status of civil servants, as well as the simplification of standards, procedures and controls in the medical field, in the mobility of civil servants or in the social bodies of the civil service. This great project will require courage and creativity, and I would like to stress your courage on this subject. You have indeed decided to postpone the plan to upgrade the careers of civil servants prepared by the previous government, which will save 800 million euros in 2018. We welcome your decision and hope that, finally, we will work together on real reforms rather than on half-measures of electoral compensation. We also welcome the reintroduction of the deficiency day for public sector personnel. This is a first step, but above all a guarantee of equity between employees in the private and public sectors. Fairness will also require alignment of pension plans. The appropriations for the Social and Pension Plans mission, which we are also looking at, correspond to the government's balance subsidies to various special pension schemes that are unable to self-finance themselves because of a demographic imbalance. These grants amount to €6.3 billion in the 2018 Finance Bill. The Constructive Group calls for the abolition of special pension schemes in order to bring all contributors into line with the general scheme. We had tabled an amendment to that effect during the consideration of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018. In his policy statement, the Prime Minister announced the establishment of a universal system of distributed pensions, under which a contributory euro will give all the same pension rights. We welcome this and will be able to make a proposal when the national representation considers this text. I conclude by stressing the modernisation of the administration's relations with our fellow citizens, thanks to the implementation of the right to error and the one-stop-shop principle, which obviously go in the right direction. However, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a uniform development of these two principles in our national territory. Indeed, Minister, you are aware that there are sometimes some differences in interpretation from one departmental tax administration to another. This modernisation also involves investing in digital technology in order to ensure a better quality of service to users and to be ever more efficient. I am totally convinced that we need to know how to invest to generate savings. The development of dematerialisation is the perfect example of this, but here again the state must not create inequalities and we must all ensure that all our citizens have equal access to public service. Dematerialization can only be achieved if the digital planning of the territory is effective. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, the Constructive Group will accompany the wide-ranging reforms of the Government that will contribute to the efficiency, improvement and modernization of public services. We will therefore vote on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u32	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Dussopt, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u33	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few words about this budgetary mission. After expressing concern and regret, I will make a few questions to the minister. I therefore start with a concern, which I have already expressed in the enlarged committee. We all have in mind the damage caused by the RGPP – in a report issued in September 2012, the General Inspectorate of Finance, the General Inspectorate of Administration and the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs had stressed the brutality of this process. Many fear that the presidential commitment to abolish 120,000 posts, including 50000 to 70000 in the territorial civil service, can be implemented with the same brutality and have the same effect on civil servants. As for the regret that I also wanted to express to you, Minister, it is due both to the budgetary perspective that you have presented to us and to the current situation. You announced and recalled earlier the abolition of 1648 posts. The New Left Group believes, however, that the need to better combat tax fraud and better manage tax optimisation would have required the continuation of your ministry's resources, particularly in these areas. Minister, if you can sometimes blame some of the speakers for their lack of consistency, you know that this is not my case, given the different positions I have defended in previous years. I come to the questions that we want to raise about this mission. They cover, inter alia, the remuneration of staff. We note your willingness to postpone the implementation of the "Professional Pathways, Careers and Remuneration" protocol, but we continue to question the compensation and neutralization of the CSG increase for public servants as well as for territorial, hospital or state employers. You have repeatedly recalled that the increase in the CSG would represent a total cost of €3 billion for all civil servants in 2018. This figure is found in the report in Article 38. The Government, through your voice, other ministers or even the President of the Republic, has committed itself to fully offset the increase in the CSG for public officials. In this context, Article 47 of the draft finance law abolishes the exceptional contribution of public officials to solidarity – ESC – from 1 January next. This article will represent, in 2018, a loss of tax revenue for public finances estimated at €1.4 billion. The abolition of the ESC is therefore not sufficient to compensate for the EUR 3 billion increase in the CSG. You announced that the missing €1.6 billion would take the form of a premium to fully offset the increase in the CSG. We find this bonus in the 551 "Provision for public remuneration" programme, which provides for an allocation of EUR 290.5 million. As a result, EUR 1.3 billion is still missing. This is certainly the reason for the opinions on the "mismatch" around this issue in the reports that we were able to read about. You have also proposed that both territorial and hospital public employers be entitled to compensation in the form of a reduction in the sickness employer's contribution. For communities, this compensation is essential in a context where you ask them to control their operating expenses. The 2018 Finance Bill does not contain any provisions in this regard. However, Minister, you announced at the end of last week, after a salary appointment, that you would soon implement this reduction in the employer's sickness contribution, which you will reduce from 11.5% to 9.9% by regulation. The first questions that I would like to ask you are, therefore, the following: within which time will the various necessary texts be taken? Will the regulatory path be sufficient, as long as we have not legislated on this point? Another question concerns the compensation of the abolition of the ESC for the communities. The level of compensation will depend on the proportion of staff benefiting from the abolition of the ETUC in their workforce. Thus, the compensation may vary according to the distribution of staff between categories A, B and C; communities with the most category C agents will necessarily lose. Subject to your response on the sickness employer contribution, the compensation seems to be at the macro level. But at the microeconomic level, can you guarantee us the neutrality of the increase of the CSG for employers, as you wish to guarantee for all the officials affected by this measure? I'm coming to my last set of questions. In the area of compensation for the CSG's increase, other elements remain in the shadows. For example, will the salaries paid to teachers to pay for extracurricular activities, which will also be subject to an increase in the CSG, be offset? Similarly, will contract workers benefit from a reduction in their contribution rate USSRAF, as in the private sector, in order to compensate for the increase in the CSG? Mr Minister, you will understand that, given these questions and doubts, the New Left Group is, for the time being, not in a position to support the appropriations for this mission. We look forward to the information and answers you can provide to our questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u34	So there's hope!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u35	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u36	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when Paradise papers have revealed the importance of putting the most affluent companies, multinationals and individuals under closer control, the Government decides to carry out a drastic break in the economic, customs and tax services of the State. Is it cynicism or inconsequence? We are still asking ourselves the question. In the face of the inseverity of the budget presented and of the accounting game that the Government lends itself, which, by cancelling appropriations in various missions, carries out an unprecedented carry-over of expenses, we will not be able to vote for the appropriations for this mission. In fact, the appropriations have decreased by EUR 120 million. Of course, because of the accounting game I mentioned, the Mission's budget seems to be increasing by about 600,000 euros. But in reality, cancellations of appropriations amount to EUR 18.6 million on the Civil Service programme, EUR 76.5 million on the Fiscal and Financial Management of the State and the Local Public Sector programme and EUR 25 million on the Facilitation and Securer Trade programme. In total, at the mission level, 70 million euros of staff costs are cut. The various administrations have already been bleeded: they have lost more than 22 per cent of their staff, from 187,500 to 145,000 staff at the end of 2015. Public finance services alone lost 35,000 posts in 2016. In 2018, this decline continues, with a decrease of 1600 full-time equivalents. What we will retain from this budget is that the Government does not provide itself with the means to put an end to tax evasion and that it does not commit itself firmly to the pursuit of financial offenders. Mr Minister, when I asked you this question in an enlarged committee, you said that financial officers were not by nature fraudulent and that they should be trusted. Although we are affected by this form of candour, we are surprised that a week later, while the Paradise papers revealed the magnitude of the phenomenon of tax evasion, you were stubborn in dismantling entire services. Despite the statements of intent in recent years, particularly in this House, on these issues, the actions are not up to the stakes. You also explained to us, minister, that public services had to adapt to needs, that these needs did not correspond to financial needs, and that we could, through a reorganization of services, lead to effective administration. In the face of this answer, we struggle to hide our surprise, if not our anger. By nature, a reorganization of services costs a lot of money. Similarly, the establishment of dematerialised processes to combat tax fraud and tax evasion costs a fortune; It obviously requires trained staff, many, able to adapt to the changes you are advocating, moreover, without giving us sufficiently precise details. So you refuse to set up a proactive policy. If you reduce the public service of tax, you only favour the most wealthy taxpayers and the large multinational companies that can afford the advice of tax lawyers and understand the operation of a particularly cryptic and difficult to access tax law. We are amazed, Minister: by refusing to provide these services with additional resources, you indicate that tax justice and equality before taxes are not your priorities. You tell fraudsters and fraudsters that they can, with impunity, continue to escape tax. Thus, the Government agrees not to defend the French State, its public services, its hospitals, its schools, which are asked to make constant efforts when they are literally bleededed because you are refusing to go for the money of the tax offenders. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Minister, this budget is absolutely indicative of the program you are implementing: profiters and profiters everywhere, social and tax justice nowhere. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u37	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u38	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, whether it is called a "general review of public policies" or a "modernisation of public action", these are the same principles that have been applied to the mission "Management of public finances and human resources" since 2007: a constant deterioration of the working conditions of officers in connection with frequent budget cuts and massive abolitions of posts, either in the DGFIP or in the customs administration. Since 2002, almost 40,000 posts have been abolished at FIPB. Approximately 1200 cash pools have been closed, of which more than 600 have been closed since 2009, moving the taxpayer away from the public service and ignoring the territorial network needed by the population. The logic is the same for customs: in ten years, more than 3000 posts have been abolished and many services have disappeared. By cutting off the appropriations for this mission, the State withdraws from its legitimate missions within the Ministry of Economy and Finance. As the OXFAM report points out, according to the latest calculations made by researchers at the UN University, France is the country of the euro area which loses most because of the tax evasion of large companies. It is thus at least 20 billion euros that escape each year from the French state because of the tax optimisation of large companies, that is more than two thirds of the tax revenue from corporate tax in 2016. Tax evasion and evasion cost the State between 60 and 80 billion euros a year. Legal tools are weak to combat tax evasion by large companies. In a context where more than the majority of trade is now taking place between the subsidiaries of the same company, our tax system no longer seems to be suitable for the current economy. The big companies are then the big winners of this tax pass trick. The same applies to State services, whose training should be strengthened to enable them to deal with those who have the means to afford armadas of lawyers and tax practitioners to escape tax on our territory. The news of Paradise Papers and other similar cases highlight the need to strengthen the State's capacity. Of course, the Government will tell us that, by 2018, there will be a slight increase in the number of staff: 240 posts will be created, 200 of which will prepare for the re-establishment of a customs border with the United Kingdom in the run-up to its withdrawal from the European Union. Of course, but the creations announced are, precisely, linked mainly to Brexit and it is already known that they will be insufficient in the short term, especially since, almost everywhere in the territory, services are already in a chronic understaffing situation. In fact, the abolitions will continue in the services responsible for commercial operations and surveillance throughout the territory, while the stakes are major in combating terrorism, implementing Brexit, verifying goods in a context of globalisation, securing citizens in all territories, including ultra-marine ones, guaranteeing the State's tax revenues, supporting businesses and combating fraud and trafficking. That, Minister, is the inconsistency and contradiction between the good intentions shown by the Government and the budget you present for this mission. They are found in the human resources management of now merged services from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and taxes. How to imagine the strengthening of the dematerialised relations between the user and the public finance services and the implementation of the levy at source, or how to aim to make the State's real estate policy more efficient by continuing to abolish services or by closing, as announced, 800 new cash in the next three years. The State fails even more to fulfil its obligations when it reduces the hours of reception of the public or, as it does for example in the constituency of which I am elected, in Lurcy-Lévis, opens the perception only a few hours a week, with untrained agents who come especially from the central site take their tour of duty, so that the State continues to make us believe that it maintains a local service. The means of this mission "Public finance and human resources management" are not only worrying, they are unfounded in the current context. This government leaves even more of our fellow citizens on the side, and not just the most fragile of them. It undermines the territories and their social cohesion. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] For these reasons, Members of the GDR Group will not vote for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u39	The next speaker is Mr Eric Poulliat, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u40	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the mission "Management of public finances and human resources" is fully part of the multi-year public action transformation project, which aims to reduce public spending while improving the quality of services for the benefit of users. The funds allocated to this mission directly contribute to the success of this approach by providing the State with piloting tools and means of training and innovation in the field of human resources. The amount of appropriations allocated to programme 148, "Public service", amounts to €239.1 million, which is almost stable compared to the 2017 Finance Act. Among the various actions in this programme, I particularly welcome the continuation of the appropriations for apprenticeship in Action 03, which will finally achieve the target of 10,000 apprentices in the public service of the State, set in 2015. I also welcome the €5 million in new funding to implement a real state human resources policy led by the Directorate-General for Administration and the Civil Service, notably through the creation of two funds: the new €1.8 million HR Information Systems Fund, which will allow for the modernisation of human resources management methods, and an inter-ministerial working conditions improvement fund of €1 million. According to the annual public performance project, "these appropriations will be a lever for improving working conditions by providing additional funding to projects identified by local actors in the framework of the management dialogue with staff but whose funding would not be completed". However, we need to be empowered to continue these efforts to modernize human resources management. Thus, staff mobility mechanisms, which are tools of recognition and motivation, are still too little used in the public service. To date, less than 4% of mobility has occurred between the three public offices. This can be "vertical" mobility when employees take on more responsibilities during their career, or "horizontal" mobility when expressed in terms of geographic mobility and job change. For this mobility to take place, staff must be able to train throughout their careers to acquire new skills or adapt to new working environments. However, it must be noted that the rate of access to continuing training for staff in the category A is still more important than that of category B and C agents, whereas the latter are the ones who need it most. The situation is even more complicated for staff in categories B and C employed by smaller structures and communities who do not have sufficient resources to support a true training policy. In order to promote the mobility chosen rather than the mobility suffered, we are now proposing several innovations. The creation of a single digital portal for public employment in France, accessible to all public officials on all three sides, seems to me appropriate, in accordance with the proposal of my colleague rapporteur Émilie Chalas. Many officers are likely to work in the same trades with another public employer as their original public service, but it is often very difficult for them to have a clear view of the vacancies in their own administration, and even more so to be aware of the opportunities offered in other public administrations or other sides of the public service. In this way, Mr. Minister, we could consider studying the conditions for the creation of a platform bringing together all the vacant jobs in the three public functions and, possibly, devoting a share of the fund dedicated to the transformation of the administration, which accompanies the Public Action 2022 process. In the same vein, representatives of the Directors-General of local authorities and some local elected representatives propose the creation of territorial public employment pools, within which territorial training plans would be drawn up, with vacancies in the three public offices being shared at regional level. This would make it possible to optimize inter-functional human resources management. Minister, I know that these are all construction sites that will be opened as part of Public Action 2022. You will not fail to drive them and thus recognize the contribution of public officials to our national wealth and their involvement in it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the appropriations for this programme and, more broadly, those for this mission, because they will contribute to the success of this great transformation programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u41	We come to a question from the Republic Group on the move. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u42	Minister, my question will be about human resources management, of which we know it is both a problem and an issue: a problem, because public officials very broadly express their dissatisfaction, and an issue, because it is a powerful motivator for these same agents. I therefore welcome the dynamism that the Government wishes to bring to the management of human resources, which has come all the better as it is accompanied by two qualities: the stability of the decision, with a multi-year plan on which you are committed, and a medium-term visibility that allows everyone to see the path that will be followed. That is the whole meaning of the Public Action 2022 process. In this perspective, the mobility of public officials becomes an issue – if not one of the keys – of its success. In general, the issue of mobility and career prospects for public officials, all public functions, is crucial to the success of adapting our country's communities to the challenges of the 21st century. In addition, I would like to highlight the specific training difficulties faced by staff in the least populated and financially resourced communities. How can a training plan be organized, taking into account the obligation of continuity of public service when the community operates with very few agents? Could the territorial pool of public employment not be the beginning of a solution? If so, Minister, do you intend to implement the proposal for a territorial pool of public employment? Could this at least be the subject of an experiment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u43	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u44	I will probably have the opportunity, during the consideration of the amendments, to respond to the speakers by highlighting the work of each of them, in particular that of the special rapporteurs. Madam Member, you are absolutely right and you are referring to a subject which has already been discussed in committee. We are facing a major training challenge – that is true in general and, in particular, in the public service. It is clear that the Public Service Branch – PSB –, transformed into a state HRD, is only in its infancy, because it must accompany not only training, but also appointments, which is not the case today, where the PSB, which is very focused on careers and statutes, intervenes relatively little in management because, even if its director and agents are trying to do this and there, it is not intrinsically included in its missions. What is certain is that the mobility of agents, which normally allows movements in the territories – whether it is to change employers or pay to obtain a promotion or for personal organization reasons – is not at the public service's rendezvous. Only 4% of public officials, on average, change employers and 0.4% change employers. So there is no – at least we can say – very great mobility, for many reasons. We have removed some obstacles – the Government has made an order allowing the time savings account to be portable between public offices in the event of a change of employer and, above all, at the expense of the employer – but many problems need to be mentioned, including training. I am, by nature, entirely in favour of experiments – it is, as you know, the government's DNA. The answer to your question, Mrs Dubré-Chirat, is therefore "yes" and I have also heard the arguments of the Special Rapporteur. This formation may also have to be accompanied by the renewal of those who form. The National Centre of the Territorial Civil Service – CNFPT – does important work in the territorial civil service, but it must also modernize and accompany the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – NOTRE – and the merger of local authorities, and perhaps also make room for other types of training. This vocational training is not only intended to enable staff to train and move from one job to another; It must also focus on digitizing and changing public service habits. This is a vast project, which we will have the opportunity to set up for the next five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u45	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u46	I call the appropriations of the Mission "Public Finance and Human Resources Management", listed in Statement B. I have before me two amendments, Nos 1335 and 1336, which can be presented together. Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u47	Amendments Nos 1335 and 1336 pursue the same objective. I recalled earlier that the department's services were going to lose 1,648 full-time equivalents. Amendment No 1335 therefore seeks to add EUR 11 million to Title 2 of Action 01, "Business taxation", and Amendment No 1336 to add EUR 10 million to Title 2 of Action 03, "Personal taxation and local direct taxation", in order to preserve these posts and guarantee the resources of the Ministry's departments to better combat tax fraud and optimisation. I would remind you that these, as we have seen in recent news, result in almost EUR 30 billion in loss of profits for our country. In this way, we want to allow the minister to re-establish the numbers that should be cut in his services.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u48	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u49	As the committee has not considered these amendments, I will speak in my personal capacity. I obviously share your wish, Mr President, to devote resources to the fight against tax fraud and aggressive tax optimisation. On the other hand, I do not agree with the amendment of the appropriations which is the subject of these amendments, which I am opposed to for several reasons. The first reason is that the Government makes the fight against tax fraud and aggressive optimisation a priority, contrary to what you say, since the number of people responsible for combating tax fraud in large companies is increasing. The 2012 ceiling jobs were below current levels, as they were 1217 posts and the 2018 budget proposal aims to increase these numbers from 1312 to 1320. The second reason is that you are proposing to increase the appropriations for Action 01 by 11 million "Taxation of large companies", but you are removing them from the 218 programme "Management and control of economic and financial policies". The latter is also used to combat tax fraud by financing services such as Tracfin. To use a classical expression in this House, you undress Peter to dress Paul by transferring credits that are already useful to the struggle you call your vows. Third reason, a little deeper and macro-economic – I'm sure you'll share it – is that France alone can't fight fraud effectively, let alone tax optimisation. Work at least bilaterally with other countries, and even multilaterally, must be undertaken, starting with European countries. So, personally, I am against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u50	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u51	Unfavorable opinion; That will not surprise Mr. Dussopt. I would like to take this opportunity to respond to his inquiry, since the Rules of Procedure of this House prevent us from responding to the speakers – I will not reopen this morning's debate, but it is a bit surprising in the context of Parliament's power of control over the Government. Mr President, like Mrs Obono and others before you, you are referring to the inconsistency between the abolition of public employment and the priority given to fiscal control. First of all, the DGFIP is a very large administration: it is not just fiscal control. We have indicated in committee that the means for tax control will of course be maintained and that those of the STDR – the processing service for amending declarations – after its closure on 31 December, will be redeployed for this control. In addition, your amendment should not result in an increase in staff who would control Mr. X or Mrs. Michu, but who, for lack of technical and international means, would not control the characterized fraudsters – those whom you rightly aim for – who do things that are totally contrary to the law and leave our country to escape tax. It is the tax intelligence, the use of data, the information technology, the international conventions you have rightly signed by the previous government, which you have supported, that will allow us to work better and more in this area, and not simply to increase the number of agents in these services. As for the compensation for the increase in CSG for the public service officers you asked me about during your intervention, the decrees will be submitted to the National Standards Assessment Council on November 30 and will then be published. A perfect compensation will be provided on January 1st for all public servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u52	Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As far as the nature of those who could have been controlled by these additional posts was concerned, I was actually counting on the instructions you will give to the services. Mr Special Rapporteur, you are well aware of this, but I would remind you that the organisation of our debates obliges us to remain within the framework of the mission: we must therefore find a budget line in order to be able to make a proposal and thus call on the Government to re-establish a certain number of appropriations. As for your third argument, of course, France alone cannot do everything, but we must do everything possible to equip ourselves with the means necessary to combat tax fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u54	I have before me a number of amendments to the supplementary article after Rule 55. I call Mrs Cendra Motin, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 662.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u55	With this request for a report, I will please both my friends in La France insoumise and those of the Republicans. I request that the Government provide Parliament, within six months, with a report to assess the cost of amending the residency allowance for civil servants. This somewhat dated device is based on a zoning that no longer necessarily corresponds to the tense or relaxed areas we know. However, the map of these tense and relaxed areas should be recast within the framework of the housing law that we will be studying. So I'd like to know if updating the residency allowance on the basis of this new card could be relevant, what cost it could have and what savings it could generate – why not? – in order to have information closer to reality. Another point which I think is important is that this allowance should be granted on the basis not of the place of work, but rather of the place of residence of the staff. In fact, it is logically supposed to solve the problems of the difference in the cost of living that agents can encounter to stay in, especially in the Paris region. It would seem fairer to me that Mr Darmanin's secretary, who does not live in Lille, could have an allowance corresponding to his place of residence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u56	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u57	First of all, I encourage the president and all public officials to visit Tourcoing: you will see that life is extremely friendly, even if it is a bit difficult to get to Paris by means of transport – except to consider that growth will solve this problem. You are referring to an extremely important issue, Madam Special Rapporteur. The previous government and successive majorities have made up for the cost of living, particularly in Savoie and Île-de-France. This is also the interest of the President of the Republic's project, as described in his open letter to public officials on 12 April. The aim was to consider that there should be no widespread increase in remuneration, with increases to be based on both merit and cost of living. This is an extremely important point. You are asking for a report, Madam Special Rapporteur: I cannot deny it, but inter-ministerial work could be done within the framework of the Public Action Committee 2022. If you agreed to withdraw your amendment – failing which the Government would issue a wisdom opinion – we could indeed envisage that this work be carried out not only by the Ministry of Public Action and Public Accounts, but by the whole of the ministries for all sides of the public service. This very important point will have to be put into practice next year, in the budget which we will not fail to negotiate together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u58	Madam Special Rapporteur, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u59	I withdraw it to allow a broader study, involving more actors, in order to better meet the needs of the agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u60	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u61	I have before me an amendment No 664 which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 1881 and 1882. Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 664.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u62	Mrs Obono, perhaps I will give you a second chance, hoping that we ourselves will not suffer from "acute reporting"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u63	Yes! It's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u64	No, two reports, it's still going on, Mrs. Dalloz!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u65	It's contagious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u66	This is an extremely important subject, which follows on from what had been adopted in committee, subject to a sub-amendment. France had rightly proposed that the Government should submit to Parliament a report on the resources and staffing of customs, following developments in the Schengen area. I then proposed to extend this problem to Brexit. In fact, in my report, I indicated that customs personnel were being strengthened in terms of the full-time equivalent, which was working, by the need to prepare not only for Brexit, but also for all other related customs clearance, control and taxation issues. This request for a report relates to the Schengen area and to Brexit, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u67	The Minister has the floor to support sub-amendments Nos. 1881 and 1882 and to give the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 664.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u68	The Government supports the amendment subject to the adoption of both sub-amendments. Indeed, the question of Brexit is not just a customs question; It concerns all administrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u69	What is the committee's opinion on these two sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u70	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u71	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u72	Finally, a report initiated by La France insoumée is likely to be voted in this Chamber! It's even the second, if I count well. It is a good thing: I hope that this augurs well for the following reports. If I agree with the amendment proposed by Subamendment No 1881, I do not see the point of deleting paragraph 3 of the amendment, as you are proposing, Minister, in Subamendment No 1882. This paragraph seems appropriate to me inasmuch as it provides that the report shall assess the adequacy of the human and financial resources available to customs officers in order to be able to carry out their tasks in good conditions. If we want a full report, not a half report, I propose that we retain the original version of this report, plus the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u73	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 714.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u74	We withdraw this amendment because, despite the adoption of Subamendment No 1882, which we do not think is necessary, we are pleased that our proposal has been taken up and that the submission of this information report has been accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u75	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 710.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u76	Equality before the tax law is now called into question, whether by multinational companies such as Google, Amazon or Apple, which avoid paying their taxes in France by legal and accounting concessions or by large taxpayers who use the armies of tax lawyers to get the entire sections of their wealth out of their valuable assets. It is not only bags of tickets but almost entire territories that are now exempt from tax. How can one reasonably argue that there is equality before the law when M. and Mme. Tout-le-monde read daily in newspapers, see on television that the ultra-rich twist the right to pass gold or platinum ingots for contemporary works of art? The information report that we are asking for will allow us to take stock of a working hypothesis: if everyone actually paid the taxes that he had to pay without twisting the law, what would be the gain for public finances? Another expected effect of genuine equality between citizens: tax would become legitimate again and conduct contrary to republican virtue would disappear. That is the meaning of our amendment and we hope, therefore, that you will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u77	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u78	As I said earlier in response to Olivier Dussopt, of course we share your concerns and are just as aware as you of the seriousness of tax evasion and aggressive optimisation. That said, it is certainly not a report that will solve anything about it or learn something from FIPB or national representation. The causes of the situation are now, in the vast majority, well known. Moreover, DGFIP is doing a remarkable job in this area and, as I said to Mr Dussopt, although France can make progress in this area, the problem must be tackled at global level and, to begin with, at European level. The committee is therefore opposed to this request for a report which would not solve much.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u79	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u80	What you are asking for already exists, Member: you will find in Volume I of the Ways and Means Assessment, attached each year to the Finance Bill, the difference between net tax revenues and amounts of refunds and rebates. It can be called a "report" if you wish, but it already exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u81	Is the issue of inequality between territories also addressed?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u82	I therefore believe that your amendment should be withdrawn or the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u83	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u84	We know the documents to which you refer, Minister – we have done our work very conscientiously before proposing the drafting of these reports – but we do not believe that the precise data we are looking for are now included in the literature on the subject. The few requests for information reports that have been accepted by this House have clearly shown that the problem is not the number of new reports but the axis according to which they are considered. You mentioned the European level. The fight against tax evasion and optimisation must indeed be carried out also at European level, but you have rejected the proposals we made this morning in this direction. So the problem is not that we are limited to the national level: I confirm that our vision is global. Of course, reports are not acts, but declarations of intent are not. The reports we are requesting would enable the Government to demonstrate an effective will and no longer be content with the speeches and declarations of intent that we have been served for years, with this result: Paradise Papers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u86	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 711.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u87	Mr Minister, Mr Special Rapporteur, you keep saying that the solution to this problem is at European or even international level. It seems to me, however, that France must first be exemplary in this area. Through this amendment, I raise the question of the human but also the technological means of administration. For years, many scandals of tax evasion and fraud have been headlines: there have been the Luxleaks – I recall that in this case, only the whistleblowers have been convicted – the Panama Papers and the SwissLeaks. According to Le Monde diplomatique, of the approximately 50000 checks carried out by the tax authorities each year, 16000 are subject to financial penalties; 4000 are concluded by a transfer to the departmental level and only 1000 to the central administration. According to Oxfam, three-quarters of these 1,000 prosecutions against tax fraudsters result in a suspended sentence and barely 150 in prison. The account isn't there at all. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It seems extremely important to us to know what the flaws of our legal system are, what are our technological delays, especially since there is a fairly substantial loss of human resources, since since 2002 the number of staff has fallen by 22 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u89	If we share many of your findings, we absolutely do not agree on the means to be implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u90	It's very simple: we need sanctions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u91	What would a report bring?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u92	That would give you arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u93	Everything you have said, we know – and more importantly DGFIP. What you are asking for is completely irrelevant to what the administration needs to effectively combat fraud and aggressive tax optimization. The opinion is therefore unfavourable, for exactly the same reasons as I have just explained to Mrs Obono. You will read in my special report that the exchange of information between administrations, departments and taxpayers is a priority to improve the effectiveness of the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u95	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u96	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u97	What we are asking for is not just a report, Mr Special Rapporteur: we want actions to follow. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] When tax unionists say that they lack the means to do their job properly, it must be heard and solutions must be found. Can you give me a document that specifically explains what, in the tax legislation, allows for tax evasion and fraud. What is interesting in Paradise papers is that almost all the practices revealed there are legal. At one point, then, we still have to ask ourselves about our legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u98	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u99	Of the amount of tax evasion in France, there are extremely different figures, ranging from 20 billion to 120 billion. I understand that any quantification in this area is difficult, but it says a lot about the opacity that prevails. We welcome the measures taken by the Government, not to mention the Ecofin Council and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – the OECD – but it is difficult to distinguish what is involved in fraud from what is legal. The so-called "tax avoidance" may be morally reprehensible, but legal in that some feel that the tax is excessive or even abusive. If there are legal acts but one can judge immoral, it is because the law does not set precise limits as it should. There is certainly work to be done in this regard, both at the national and international levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u100	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 712.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u101	We should not reduce our demands for a return to vain folklore. It is true that, under the Fifth Republic, the role of opposition deputies is sometimes reduced to little. You reject all our amendments, all our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u102	We have just adopted a request for a report!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u103	We have to win the election!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u104	Yes, it is. Sometimes you've lost some. Even better: you did not even run for election, you simply followed the winning candidate after supporting another candidate. That's funny methods! Apparently, you don't remember who you supported in the presidential election anymore. Well, we remember that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u105	At least I live at home!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u106	Let me speak, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u107	You're calling me!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u108	Return to your amendment, Mr Corbière!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u109	You are wisdom, Madam President. If we ask for these reports, it is that the Government has the means to provide answers to the questions that concern us, including the competitiveness and employment tax credit, which is something important. We have found that since 2002 Bercy's services have lost almost 22% of their staff, public finance services have been amputated by 35,000 posts since 2016, which means fewer agents to verify the conditions of application of the CICE and to uncover possible frauds. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On matters as important as the CICE, it would seem appropriate to have a report which will enable us to assess whether the law is respected or, on the contrary, any negligence caused by the lack of resources suffered by the State services.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u111	Mr Corbière, you have the merit of being consistent, if not somewhat redundant, since you have already defended this amendment in the context of the review of the "Economy" mission. He then received an unfavorable opinion. I have no doubt that you will defend him again in the examination of unattached items.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u112	Exactly! Pedagogy is repetition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u113	At the risk of repeating what was said this morning, France Strategy is already publishing such a report. In addition, the CICE will be removed and replaced by a reduction in long-term and direct costs, which companies need to regain margins.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u114	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 713.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u115	Here we ask you for an information report on the effectiveness of the control carried out by the tax administration, assessing in particular the ratio between the controls carried out and the mass of taxpayers to be checked. It is about how many times you are controlled in your life, whether you are a company or an individual, and how many businesses have been controlled. These elements seem important to us to work on an assumption that these controls will be strengthened and that more tax revenues will be projected and that the law will be enforced, since that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u117	Unfavorable. One of the principles that our majority has tried to implement is the right to error, to move from the administration of punishment to the administration of trust. We hope that this can partly meet your expectations. On the other hand, a report will bring nothing. You will find on the DGFIP website, which is very well done, all the statistical data you need.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u118	Obviously, there are still things that don't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u120	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u121	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u122	I heard what you said about second chance and right to error. The central question is how to enforce the law and not how to get a second chance. We may be wrong, and there is a great deal of consultation, but we still have to get to grips with the law: it is the only subject that is worth it. You have refused a number of requests for reports, but I will come back through another door. In the spring of 2018, the Evaluation and Monitoring Commission will conduct an information mission on the state's means of combating tax fraud and tax evasion. On this occasion, I will ask for this information again. We proposed that you work upstream. If you can start right now, without even approving this amendment, it will save us all time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u123	Mr Olivier Dussopt, in support of Amendment No. 1337, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u124	This is a request for a report, in line with the amendments put forward earlier, on the means made available by the administration to combat tax fraud and optimisation, on the cost to France and its administrations and – in the hope, perhaps, to convince the Special Rapporteur – on the positions defended by France in Europe and on the international level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u126	The same answer as for Amendment No 711. I would add, however, that an amendment to the bill, supported by Mrs Cariou and all the Members of the Senate on the move, was already going in that direction – I invite you to refer to it. We'll look at the report together. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u127	I call the appropriations of the "Public Action and Transformation" mission, listed in state B.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u128	I call the appropriations of the Mission "Unallocated appropriations", entered in statement B. On these appropriations, I have an amendment No 1334 before me. Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u129	I continue to question the compensation of the CSG's increase and its neutrality for employers. This amendment was tabled at a time when we did not have the communiqué concerning the forthcoming submission of the decree to the National Standards Assessment Council. I have heard your answer, Minister – and I have noted the date of November 30 – about the reduction of the sickness contribution paid for territorial employers – and hospital, I hope, too, of course. I would point out that not all public officials are subject to the exceptional solidarity contribution – the ETUC – since employees whose net monthly remuneration is less than EUR 1467 are exempt – about 1 million are involved. I would also point out that the ESC rate is lower than the new CSG rate. The removal of the contribution only partially offsets the increase in the CSG. Beyond this appeal amendment, which aims to add 50 million to action 01 "Provision relating to public remuneration", it would be interesting for us to know how the bonus you have planned for the various agents is allocated, which is estimated at 290.5 million. It is also an opportunity for me to ask you again, at this stage of the debate, the question that I asked in the general discussion: if, on a "macro-economic" level, the compensation is effective for the agents, will this also be the case on a "micro-economic" level, agent-by- agent level, and for the employers – local authorities or hospital public service – according to the typology of the agents and their distribution between categories A, B and C?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u131	The unallocated credits provide only $290 million and I hear your questions about the calculation of the premium offsetting the 1.7-point increase in the CSG. This increase, as you pointed out, will be offset in part by the abolition of the ESC, or even by a reduction in the sickness contribution for staff subject to this type of contribution. In any event, the rule for calculating the premium will be individualised for each staff member, on the basis of the remuneration received throughout 2017. A new calculation will be made in 2019 on the basis of the full annual remuneration of 2018 – I remind you that the reassessment of a number of indices was not done for 2015 and 2016 but will be done in 2018. This will lead to salary reminders which are important for them to be taken into account in future calculations of this premium. Since the premium is individualized, the agents can be reassured: the amount they will receive will fully compensate for the loss due to the increase in the CSG. The provisions will be effective, as shown in Title 2 of each department's budget. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u133	I understood correctly, Mr. Dussopt, that this was an appeal amendment. I therefore take this opportunity, as the Special Rapporteur has just done, to re-explain the mechanism for the full compensation of this CSG increase for all public servants and contractors. I hear the argument that might be in the background of your intervention and I fully understand it. Local authorities are winning. The compensation that had been presented to me initially, including by some communities, by employers or even by the New Left group, was an increase in the point of index, which would have been financed by local authorities, we all know, just as the hospital world would have done for its agents – this is indeed a difficulty in the remuneration of public officials, especially in the territorial civil service: the state makes decisions that are sometimes paid by others, you know better than anyone else as president of an association of elected officials. The second point is that the lag in the implementation of the PPCR – career paths, careers and remuneration – would also have been largely paid by local authorities as far as they were concerned. They will pay it as of January 1, 2019, but we made a responsible choice: it is not for the communities to pay off the CSG increase. You have understood this very well – I am going very quickly: we are removing this 1% – in fact 0.9% – for categories A and B. We remove the 0.75% contribution for contract workers through a premium – provided for in the finance bill – that local authorities or the hospital community are obliged to pay as compensation for an overall abolition of the employer contribution. Then we come to the numbers that you have at your disposal and that you have mentioned. Public officials now have the guarantee of having a more generous compensation than in the past – if you allow me this parallel – when the Jospin government did the same kind of increase. In contrast to us, he had not anticipated that this would also concern the flow of new agents. But we cannot make a speech about the attractiveness of the public service and not include the flow – it was a request from the union organizations, to which I of course responded positively. I confirm the date of 30 November and the passage of these decrees before the Joint Civil Service Council, where employers' associations and trade union organizations were present, which were able to dissect the whole of the measures proposed by the Government. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u134	Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u135	I thank the Minister for his explanations but he did not fully address my concerns about compensation to employers. I take note of what has just been said for the agents, but what about the employers, depending on the type of agents? The premium would in fact necessarily be higher because of the high presence of category C agents, where the largest number of agents are not subject to the ETUC. Depending on how the premium is awarded and calculated, compensation by contribution will not necessarily be sufficient. Doubt remains. However, I withdraw the amendment. I said in presenting it: our amendment proposed funding of 50 million within the limits of the appropriations available for the mission, but without common measure with those that would have been necessary if the employer contribution had not decreased.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u136	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u137	I would not like Mr Dussopt to imagine that I am not fully responding to his questions. This is, of course, a global compensation. While there is no obligation to compensate since there is no transfer of burden – you will agree with me – the Government has chosen a permanent compensation for employers, without any obligation to renegotiate each time with the Government, thanks to the removal of the contribution of 1.62 points – a little more, therefore, than the 1.6 point that would cost this compensation of the increase in the CSG. That's a good thing to reassure you. Public officials, like employers, will have the opportunity to verify the Government's statements at the end of January. Despite our good relations in the parliamentary debate, I imagine that you will not fail to carry out your monitoring work, and that is quite normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u138	I call the appropriations of the mission "Social and Pension Plans", listed in state B.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u139	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor in support of Amendment No. 1577 on the additional rule after Rule 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u140	Earlier, in her introductory statement, the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs said that three-fifths of the special pension schemes of RATP and SNCF are financed by the State and explained that this would not be the case if the ratios between pensioners and assets had not decreased as much in these public enterprises. In doing so, it has given us an argument in favour of this amendment: we want to know to what extent the imbalance in the RATP pension fund is due to such a decrease in the ratio between pensioners and assets, which de facto leads to funding problems. The report we are requesting may be drafted by a working group involving four representatives of the administration and four representatives of RATP staff unions. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It seems to us very important to shed light on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u141	[[At seventeen a.m., Sylvain Waserman replaced Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u143	By this amendment, you ask the Government to produce a report assessing the impact of the reductions in the RATP workforce on the balance of its special pension scheme and, by ricochet, on the amount of the State subsidy. I will provide you with two points of answer. First point: with this amendment and the following amendment, No. 1579, you multiply the requests for reports, which is more about two special regimes whose situations are similar. On this issue of special deficit schemes, it would be more relevant to conduct a comprehensive analysis. Secondly, your amendment is underpinned by bias which hinders an objective analysis of the situation. Indeed, the report you are calling for would focus only on one of the factors explaining the imbalance in the RATP regime – the drop in the number of contributors – and would stalemate the others. However, while it is true that in recent years RATP has been more willing to hire staff who contribute to the general scheme rather than to the special scheme, which causes the number of contributors to be reduced, this is not the only cause of the imbalance in the scheme. It is also linked to the fact that the number of pensioners is constantly increasing because of the increase in life expectancy and the liquidation rules which favour early retirement compared to the general scheme. The number of new retirees is increasing faster than the number of retirees. It should be recalled that the average retirement age of RATP staff is 55 years: it therefore remains much lower than that of employees who are members of the general scheme, which is 62 years old. It is this combination of factors that explains the structural deficit suffered by the RATP special pension scheme and hence the constant increase in the amount of the subsidy. As to the impact of this imbalance on the amount of the State subsidy, these data are given on page 29 of my report, which refers to the budget management's forecasts that the subsidy could reach 799 million by 2021, which would increase the State's participation in the financing of the fund from 58 per cent to 61 per cent. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u144	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 1579.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u145	You could have underestimated the previous amendment, Mr Special Rapporteur, if you thought that the staff were not alone in the matter. Be like your colleagues who, earlier, considered that our amendment to request a report suffered from the lack of mention of Brexit. The balance of special diets, in the end, seems to be a subject of interest to you – unless it is not so and you simply want to remove them? That's a point of view. We defend our own by asking for a report. In this case, we are asking for a report on the SNCF and the budgetary imbalance in the financing of staff pension schemes. We would like to see a study of the link between this imbalance and the downsizing. I am sure, Mr Special Rapporteur, that, with the experience of the previous amendment, you will under-amend it. I'm counting on you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u147	My opinion is the same, for the same reasons, as the previous amendment, in all respects similar to it. Firstly, in my view, it is not appropriate to conduct a sectoral analysis of special deficit schemes. Secondly, the requested report would cover only one of the factors explaining the imbalance in the special regime of the SNCF,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u148	All you have to do is amend the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u149	... whereas, as in the case of RATP, this imbalance is also linked to the constant increase in the number of pensioners, as a result of factors that encourage employees to retire early: to 53 years and 5 months on average for driving agents, to 57 years and 6 months on average for other agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u150	A sub-amendment...?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u152	A minister's subamendment, perhaps?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u153	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u154	I call the appropriations of the trust account "Management of the State's real estate assets", entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u155	I have before me two amendments on the additional article after Rule 63. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 715 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u156	Since 2005, the State has sold more than €7 billion in real estate: it is potentially several million square metres that have changed hands in the last decade, since the State decided to implement a new policy for the management of its real estate assets. You certainly have in mind, like us, the various scandals caused by the obscure or even contentious conditions in which these sales, in particular of horse goods, have allowed the sale of real estate of the State at a vile price or in a way clearly incompatible with the general interest. The State must be strong and intractable on these issues. We need to take stock of this accelerated sales period, which is designed to fill the public deficit. What is better for this than a generalist working group, composed of associations whose impartiality is no longer to be demonstrated, such as Anticor or Sherpa? State inspection services such as the General Finance Inspectorate, subordinated to the Government, would not be free enough to investigate thoroughly. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If you adopt this amendment, we will finally have a clear study of the mistakes observed by the press, in particular, during these express sales, and other sales which seemed not to be in conformity will be cleared of any suspicion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u157	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u158	It is a real question, and an essential question, that the value of state property. I am referring to it in my special report. On this subject, the amendment still calls for a report,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u159	You refuse them all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u160	... but at some point we have to work, drawing on the work already done, which seems serious to me. I shall turn to the controversial comments contained in the summary statement, but I would like to go back to the notion of vile prices. Is it the implementation of the discount you think? This problem shows how complex it is to justify the price of an assignment, especially in the case of public goods, as this price often results from political choices and it is not necessarily up to the Government to define it. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u161	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 716 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u162	We come to a very interesting subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u163	Because before, it wasn't?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u164	... which was also extensively discussed during the review of the "Justice" mission: public-private partnerships, or PPPs. This morning, I visited with my colleagues in the Law Commission the future court of great instance in Paris, in the Batignolles. The building is beautiful; it looks functional; I guess magistrates and litigants will be better off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u165	Is that in the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u166	The consolidated amount of the investment is 611 million euros, supported by the private provider: it is already a good investment. During our visit, we asked for the amount of rent that will be payable by the Ministry of Justice to repay the investment component, knowing that a rent must also be paid for the operation. It will reach EUR 50 million per year for 27 years, or 1.350 billion in total. That's the amount we're going to pay for a building that cost $611 million. This is the magic of PPP: you double your bet; There's no need to go play casino!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u167	What do you want, you have to eat well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u168	By the way, it is our taxes that are used to pay for these installations, and the public credits that are dilapidated. We therefore ask for an analysis of the cost of PPPs that finance large real estate projects – including those of local authorities, such as the big stadium of Villeneuve-d'Ascq, where you have to go from time to time, Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u169	Not so much, no.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u170	Why don't you come on a couple of occasions? This is another wonderful example of PPP where our local taxes are swallowed up.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u171	We don't go to the same places!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u172	You can talk about it during the next session suspension. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u173	I have the impression that the authors of the amendment have already made the report they are asking for,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u174	Partly, actually!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u175	... in the form of the detailed financial analysis which they give us here and which I thank them for. It also seems to me that the Court of Auditors itself is preparing a report on the subject: your wish will be fulfilled, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u176	The Court of Auditors is not the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u177	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Documents and clarifications have already been provided. While it seems to me quite normal that we should be fully informed about PPPs, it is necessary to properly measure the respective commitments of the private and public sectors, and to take into account the risks that are taken into account in some cases. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn, failing which I would express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u179	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u180	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u181	We would have liked to hear from the minister on this vital issue. To the examples cited by my colleague, one could add perhaps the most well-known one, that of the South French hospital, for which the contract had to be broken despite the subsequent compensations. In this hospital, the first whose construction was financed by a PPP, 8000 malfaçons and eight months of delay were deplored; the rent exploded; doors could not be repaired unless they paid four times the market price. When will we stop using this system which weighs all the losses on the public and allocates all the profits to the private, to the detriment of the quality due to the users, when it does not put them in total danger? We need to deal with this issue and go further than a report – up to the ban. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I would add that communities often turn to PPPs because of the austerity and downsizing they suffer and because, until recently, PPPs were not included in debt. This incitement was disastrous for the public service rendered to the French and French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u182	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u183	I call the appropriations of the special-purpose account "pensions", entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u184	We have completed the review of appropriations for the management of public finances and human resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u185	We come to the examination of non-mission items. As usual, summary articles, i.e. articles 29 to 37, will be examined at the end of the first deliberation. I would remind you that, at the request of the Government, we are considering articles 41 to 45 as a matter of priority, as well as amendments to the additional article after article 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u186	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 41. Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to taxation, we cannot see our country as a Gallic village isolated from the rest of the world. Today, however, the corporate tax rate is 33 per cent in France, compared with 25 per cent in Spain, 19 per cent in the United Kingdom and 15 per cent in Germany. Our counterparts are about to set it at 25% in the United States. Do we want France to have the highest rate of SI among OECD countries? Of course, the SI rate is not the only element of a country's economic attractiveness, but how can it be challenged that it represents a real handicap for our companies? How, in this situation, will we be able to convince companies to set up factories in our territory and to set up European headquarters there? This question should obsess us, on all the benches of this House,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u188	She doesn't obsess us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u189	...because tomorrow's jobs are going to be there. That is why we are choosing to reduce the SI rate from 33% to 25% over the five-year period. The measure was defended by other candidates in the presidential election. This decline does not make France a new tax haven for multinationals: it aligns our country with the European average. It will primarily benefit our SMEs, for whom, as you know, the average IS rate is higher than for some multinational companies. At the same time, at European and international level, we must continue our fight against aggressive tax optimisation and the erosion of tax bases. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In short, our policy works on both sides: we commit ourselves to the harmonization of our tax policies and, at the same time, we strongly support, unambiguously, our companies that create value and jobs in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u190	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u191	Article 41 embodies a promise by the President of the Republic. In strict compliance with the presidential commitment, we are reducing the normal IS rate to 25% in 2022, compared to 33.3% today. Every effort must be made to put France back in the European competition. By this fall, we will bring France back to the average, an average that we must achieve all the more as our neighbours have tended to reduce the tax on profits massively in recent years. The objective pursued is a strong objective for businesses: we want to endorse a gradual decline in the IS rate that economic actors have long been demanding; We listen to them and support them. The rate will fall year after year, reaching 28% regardless of turnover in 2020, then 26.5% in 2021, to 25% by 2022. This makes it possible to reconcile the effects of the normal rate of SI at 28%, currently enjoyed by SMEs, with the decline in the normal rate of SI by 2022, without weakening the enterprises to which the reduced rate is now applicable. From the beginning, companies know where we're going. We have a plan, which is implemented in full visibility, without totem or taboo. We want to create a fair and favourable framework for the development of French companies. We have always very clearly supported companies that succeed in France, which create value and employment there. When we made the forced decision in the amending finance bill to ask companies to participate exceptionally, we recalled that there was no ambiguity in our political and economic approach to them. We prove it today with this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u192	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u193	Section 41 goes in the right direction in two ways, since it defines a downward trajectory of corporate tax to reach a rate of 25% by 2022 and, in so doing, gives visibility until 2022. This article is therefore a guarantee of stability and confidence that we can rejoice at. But, Minister, you ruined everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u194	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u195	Indeed, between the introduction of the finance bill and its vote, you took the decision to increase the tax rates for certain companies in 2017, so that it amounts to 38.3% for companies with a turnover of more than 1 billion euros and 43.7% for those with a turnover of more than 3 billion euros. You wanted to send a message of trust to companies; But this is a decision that does not fully meet their expectations. Last night, our colleague Christine Pires Beaune presented us with a very interesting special report, where she highlighted the overall stake of the disputes existing today in Bercy's closets and their astronomical bill, which is truly hallucinating. The amount referred to is EUR 22.6 billion in potential litigation, of which today only EUR 10 billion is paid out in some way thanks to contributions set up in 2017 and of which the 2018 budget will take part. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the one hand, you organize a calendar of corporate tax rates until 2022 and, on the other, you adjust to the margin, very quickly, to finance the cost of litigation relating to the same tax. This is not to reassure us of constancy and stability.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u196	Mr Eric Alauzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u197	I would like to stress that this reduction in corporate tax is particularly favourable to small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises, rather than to large groups and multinationals. At the end of 2012 and 2013, there had been a great debate, on the basis of taxation, as to whether taxes on production or taxes on income should be weighed instead. The more important companies were by their representatives, the more they pleaded for lower production taxes, the smaller they were, the more they pleaded for lower corporate taxes. Rather, it was the first option that had been chosen, except at the end of the mandate where the social solidarity contribution of companies – the C3S –, which is a tax on production, was not removed, as it should have been, but transformed into a reduction in costs. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Large companies can, more than small ones, reduce their tax base. That is why lowering corporate taxes can help reduce tax evasion. However, I caution those who say, including in this House, that too much tax would be confiscatory: nothing can justify tax evasion. In this account, even 25%, even 12% is too much – and companies do not hesitate to go to negotiate with governments, as in Ireland, to reduce their tax base. It's good to lower the tax; But at some point, you have to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u198	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u199	Minister, you find yourself pushing the fires in a tax competition process, as the 25 per cent reduction in corporate tax is part of a vast scald race. Donald Trump has just announced that he wants to go down to 20% as soon as possible; Theresa May is on the same line; Viktor Orbán promises to make Hungary a tax haven; In Ireland, the rate is 12%. Article 41 acknowledges this tax war and proposes that our country take its rightful part in it, in a way, for the benefit of large companies and not of taxpayers and small businesses, those that are not mobile. Therefore, you undermine the foundations of the social contract and you will break the capacity of the public authority and its means to meet social needs. That is why we will oppose these provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u200	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u201	Undoubtedly, there is a contradiction in our corporate taxation. Our corporate tax rate is higher than that of our western neighbours, since, at 33.3%, the normal rate is within the high range of rates applied elsewhere. However, it was 50% in the early 1980s. Yet his performance has been reduced as a pain in the last ten years. This tax amounted to €63.3 billion in 2007; It will only raise 28.4 billion euros this year. As a result, corporate income tax returns have been halved in a decade. This is the truth of the figures, which undeniably twists the neck to the ideas received about the so-called heaviness of taxation in our country: the opposite is true. Let's take a look at the OECD figures in 2015 to convince ourselves. French corporate tax accounts for 2.11% of GDP, when the OECD average is 2.81%. What is the reason for this particularly low yield, which has been falling steadily for the last ten years? The main explanation is, of course, to be found in the establishment of the CICE, which in the end resembles a disguised reduction – or not assumed – in the rate of corporate tax adopted by the previous majority: EUR 21 billion a year, ladies and gentlemen. This is how our corporate tax has been gradually torpedoed. This has resulted in a transfer of tax burdens on other economic agents, particularly households, as demonstrated by the OFCE in a report last year. Despite the inefficiency of the scheme and its abyssal cost for public finances, you propose to sanctify the CICE by removing certain employer contributions from 2019, while reducing the corporate tax rate by more than 8%. This trajectory raises important questions and creates major risks with regard to the financing of the economy and the fair contribution of everyone to the collective effort. We don't share it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u202	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u203	The Government proposes to gradually reduce the corporate tax rate to 25 per cent by 2022. Mr Minister, if this fall were conditioned by job creation, investment or the sustainable establishment of activity in the territory, we could have had a constructive exchange. If this fall were conditioned by a review of the – highly questionable – effectiveness of all these tax-derogation schemes, such as the CICE, the research tax credit or the exemptions from contributions, we could also have had a necessary substantive debate on the tax architecture of companies. However, as it stands, this decline is unconditionally, again, and comes – we regret it – in addition to a long list of tax gifts: all the tax measures that you have been multiplying for several weeks and which lead to putting our public finances at the service of a small minority, without any guarantee on the employment and development effects of the production tool. This provision will not benefit small businesses. For them, this will be the status quo with the retention of 15% of the reduced corporate tax rate. On the other hand, for very large companies, the measure will be able to make a big difference. It is only necessary to see the estimated cost of the device for 2023. The reduction proposed here is estimated at EUR 11.4 billion in unconsolidated losses. Minister, do you have any information on the distribution of this cost by size of businesses? In any case, this drop of water falls into a vase that has been overflowing for a long time. For us, you realize a holding-up that endangers the social cohesion and economic development of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u204	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1369 and 1394, to delete the article. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1369.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u205	This abolition amendment raises the question of the financing of public action and the fair contribution of everyone to the nation's effort. Your starting assumption is not the right one: considering that the attractiveness of a territory, in this case France, lies solely in its corporate tax rate, you set aside everything that creates or attracts wealth in the territories. To promote private investment, roads need to be in good condition. To create activity and employment, reliable, sustainable and efficient transport infrastructure is needed, forming a good network. To ensure the rise of our industrial economic fabric, it takes trained and qualified personnel, but also in good health. In order to promote private investment and business creation, the public authorities must therefore have the means to act and to carry out these necessary public investments. However, in this case, as you did in the discussions on the abolition of the ISF and the introduction of the single flat-rate levy of 30%, you are focusing on the alleged cost of labour, which has to do with job creation and the so-called tax burden on capital and therefore on investment. In the absence of dangling and conditionality, multinationals have housed 45 per cent of their profits in tax havens. Without the real debate that should take place, namely the question of the cost of capital and the financial performance standards imposed on businesses, you are making a tax bet without visibility or certainty and, in any event, hyper-rised for our public finances and social cohesion. That is why we are calling for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u206	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 1394.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u207	We are also proposing to delete section 41, not because we would be against the 25% reduction in corporate tax, which was in our program, but because we were making other proposals to justify that reduction. There was thus an increase in SMIC. Is it in your current proposals? No. There was also the removal of the CICE. Are you proposing to delete it? No, of course not. However, it is clear that there has been a transfer for many years from corporate taxation to households: tax optimisation accounts for an increase in VAT of more than 73% in 20 years, of which 13% over the last 10 years, and an increase in the CSG by 6.7 in 20 years. One of our colleagues in the running Republic said earlier that it was unbearable to hear about confiscatory tax and that the rate of 25% was already sufficient. As it stands, I am rather in favour of maintaining corporate tax as it stands. In any case, the tax is never confiscatory: it is redistributive. You raise the tax not to keep it, hide it in a basement and do nothing about it, but to spin public services, which benefit everyone, including businesses. It is strange, if not upuesque, when the Paradise Papers case is revealed, to extend the duration of the CICE or to reduce the corporate tax. The runoff does indeed seem to be on the agenda, for the greatest dismay of all the employees in this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u209	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u210	Unfavorable opinion. These amendments are completely orthogonal in relation to the Government's policy. As far as the CICE is concerned, if you wait for Article 42, which comes... immediately after Article 41, you will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u211	No, precisely: we propose to delete it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u212	For the rest, there is a jurisprudential notion of a confiscatory tax rate; I didn't make it up.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u213	The ones who did it are not our buddies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u214	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u215	Unfavorable opinion. For my first comment on this article, I would like to say how strategic the reduction in corporate taxes is for our economy and for employment. I want to hear everything we want, but the previous policy of systematically increasing public spending and neglecting the competitiveness of our economy has gone straight into the wall.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u216	Sarkozy's policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u217	Are you talking about the period 2007-2012?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u218	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Right in the wall: more unemployment, less competitiveness, inability to export. Many of you have said to me this morning – quite rightly – that our external trade balance is heavily in deficit. But how do you want it to become surplus again if you put a ball at the foot of businesses with an ever heavier corporate tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u219	The trade deficit is due to the purchase of raw materials!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u220	It is therefore essential to reduce corporate taxes. You're talking about industry, and you're right; I know that everyone here is attached to the French industrial power,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u221	Depends!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u222	...but, I'm sorry, the policy is to make choices. On the one hand, you cannot want a strong national industry and, on the other, you cannot continue to increase corporate tax, or keep it at its current level, while it has fallen across Europe. It's totally inconsistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u223	We have another strategy: it's neither one choice nor the other, it's something else!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u224	We demand this strategic choice – for the French nation, for our industry, for our SMEs and ETIs – to lower the corporate tax rate from 33.3% to 25% by 2022. You asked me about the numbers; I would therefore like to provide some useful clarifications to the debate. All those who legitimately say that it is primarily necessary to help SMEs should note that in 2018, 87% of the gains associated with the reduction in corporate tax – which we have maintained, especially with the preferential rate of 15% – will go to SMEs. In 2022, there will be a rebalancing in favour of the companies we said this morning that it was essential to make them grow: the ETIs, which will benefit 29% of the profits of this decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u225	That's absolutely not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u226	It is very often said that corporate tax cuts do not benefit the ITEs enough, but these figures show that by 2022 almost a third of the profits will go well to the ITEs. I also give back the figure put forward this morning by the INSEE, because it is crucial: since 2009, 375 000 net job creations are linked to the ITEs, i.e. that almost two thirds of the jobs created in the market sector are the result of these enterprises. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and LC groups]] If you want to reduce unemployment, strengthen the competitiveness of our industrial fabric, grow our SMEs to transform them into ITEs and regain a conquering economy – as much choice by the Government – you have to vote for this reduction in corporate tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u227	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u228	I hear the arguments concerning the reduction of tax levies, but I feel that the social contract is already broken, since the tax on profits is now much more borne by SMEs and midcaps than by multinationals. Lowering the rate of corporate tax – a measure with which Bernalicis agreed – will primarily benefit French companies that cannot relocate the results of their activities outside our borders. This gradual decline, which we have long been calling for, will obviously be accompanied by international work to clean up the tax bases and the corporate tax base. One goes with the other: lower rates are good because, when comparing effective tax rates, we see that we are well above the European average – and I am talking about rates that are practised not in the quasi-tax havens housed in the heart of Europe, but in real large European states that have public policies to build, such as Germany, Italy or Spain. I think it is healthy to return to the average European rates; on the other hand, it is urgent to fight against the pitting of the corporate tax base – the real scourge that is breaking the social contract today...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u229	We're all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u230	... and which makes the tax burden on households rather than on those who have the resources to pay the tax. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] It has been said and reiterated that imposing multinationals on a fair level is an emergency, and the list of tax havens is the number one tool to achieve this. Some arrangements will be able to work once an effective list is established listing all States that can be classified in this category. Then we'll recover corporate tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u231	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u232	I could partly agree with the analysis. It is clear that when large companies pay an average of 8% corporate tax, it is questionable whether it is appropriate to charge 33% or 25% to SMEs. We need to lower the rate to 25% to relieve SMEs, and at the same time – I take a formula that is dear to you – we need to raise the rates actually paid by companies that are optimising taxes and that do not pay today either 33%, 25%, or even 15%, but often less than 10%. But that is not what you do. In terms of competitiveness, trade balance and exports, it is a question of political philosophy and economic model that we want to promote. You are defending unbridled economic liberalism with free and undistorted competition between countries, including in tax matters. As a result, corporate taxes are being taxed downwards across Europe; It's who's gonna be the most paradisiacal. If you want to gradually transform France into a tax haven, you are on the right track; But if you want to protect the companies and employees in this country, it's not the one you have to borrow. We have proposed a series of measures, including solidarity protectionism, but in reality, relaunching the economic machine requires more than moving a few criteria: we must invest, for example in the energy and ecological transition, in a broad sense. However, it is not 57 billion euros – 12 billion of them warmed up from previous investment plans – that will make the difference; Only a plan of at least $100 billion could solve such problems. We therefore call for a vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u233	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u234	This is a real political debate, marked by completely different positions – and that is normal. For companies, a report notes that over the last five years, approximately 900000 jobs have been lost, at a rate of 2000 to 16,000 per quarter. Industry has lost more than 45% of its jobs. However, it has been years, Minister, that the state has been helping businesses, which benefit from tax cuts and financing – without any results. It has been more than 20 years since it was said that it is necessary to help companies, under the penalty of having them relocate their production – in vain, since the industry continues to lose jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u235	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u236	The number of people working in this sector is only 3 million in France; It's terrible! At the same time, corporate tax revenues have fallen by 40 per cent in 10 years, while businesses are making more and more profits. You see, therefore, that it is not necessarily this method that will create employment; On the contrary, since these formulas have been used for a long time, without any effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u237	I call Mr Eric Woerth, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, to support Amendment No. 1733.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u238	The days follow and do not look the same: two days ago, corporate tax was increased considerably – 30% for French groups. Of course, it was a one-off measure, but with you, life does not lack surprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u239	It's the salt of life!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u240	Today, corporate taxes are being reduced. It is better for the French economy and companies to be today than before yesterday. But we don't lower it enough: you don't go far enough. Indeed, you are turning some EUR 25 billion of CICE into a drop in costs – we are in favour of this mechanism but, as you know, it automatically raises the results of companies. To get to the end, you should neutralize that effect. We do this for you, since you do not, by proposing to lower the corporate tax a little more than you thought: by 4 points compared to the rate initially expected, then a little less as you go.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u241	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u242	You will tell us that this measure is expensive; Indeed, it costs about 6 billion euros – I prefer to make the questions and answers (Sorry) –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u243	But this will create jobs, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u244	...but our vision of the budget differs from yours. Thus, we would not have removed the housing tax for 80% of households: this measure is very expensive and does not bring anything to the French economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u245	On the other hand, it brings back to the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u247	President Woerth has worked well because this amendment is indeed very, very expensive: it would bring us back to EUR 2.7 billion this year, to EUR 5 billion next year and to the next one. In tax matters – and this also applies to the following amendment – we must avoid the race to the scald.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u248	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u249	Then why did you introduce the free stock?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u250	Of course, we can go down and make France a small tax haven, but the Government's goal is to have a balanced position by bringing our rate back to the European average. Unfavorable opinion on this amendment, as well as on all those who propose to further reduce the rate of corporate tax as compared to that foreseen in the Government's trajectory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u251	And the free stock isn't a scallop race?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u252	It's different: it's onion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u254	I know the seriousness, rigor and professionalism of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u255	His demagogy too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u256	He knows that the measure he proposes, however attractive it may be, has a cost of about EUR 15 billion, which would not be sustainable for public finances. We seek to improve the competitiveness of our economy and to return to the European average; On the other hand, we will not be dumping taxes in Europe. We will take advantage of this reduction in corporate tax, which allows us to return to the level of our first trading partner, Germany, to push for tax harmonisation in the area of corporate tax between our two countries – including harmonisation of the bases, which is a real challenge – and to stop the tax dumping that some European countries are engaging in. To give you an example, we cannot accept that Ireland continues to have a corporate tax rate of 12.5%. Tax dumping is not Europe's future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u257	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u258	I find the Chairman of the Finance Committee not only attractive, but tasty. In fact, the right can draw the substantive strength of this government decision. We can see what will happen tomorrow, despite the recriminations of the minister, who is using our own arguments, namely that we must stop tax dumping and harmonise rates on a European scale. In politics, you have to know how to call a cat a cat: today, you meet the conditions to go even further in tax gifts to businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u259	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u260	My colleague Alain Bruneel has shown this: it is a deepening of the policy which has been carried out so far without giving any results in terms of employment. You set the horizon for reducing unemployment: we take you to the word. Others risked making this commitment, but it is on your record that we can judge. You gave yourself two years to achieve this; In two years, we'll wait for the results.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u261	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u262	[[Rites and exclamations on the REM benches]] We are witnessing dumping not between European countries, but between the right and the right, in order to know who is going to propose the lowest corporate tax. Here we go, we put our finger in the gear.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u263	For now, it's Woerth who wins!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u264	Indeed, the arguments that are worth 25%, why should they not be worth 24%, then 23%? Remember, competitiveness is at stake. A little serious, though: you have to say things the way they are. When we consider what companies actually pay for corporate tax, given the different tax niches, we find that their tax rate is below the European average. Not higher: lower. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You propose to go even further. As our colleague Hubert Wulfranc has said admirably, if your goal is to create jobs, it is missed. But if your goal is to increase the profitability of businesses and dividends paid to shareholders, then you are on the right track, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u265	In order for each group to speak, I shall give the floor successively to Mr Woerth and Mr Mattei, after which we shall proceed to the vote. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u266	It would be a good thing that common sense prevails, at least from time to time. You say, Minister, that you are sensitive to the challenges of competitiveness. We are also, of course, helping our companies to be more competitive. It's not about giving them gifts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u267	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u268	... as Members on the far left of this House claim, but to improve the competitiveness of our country and thus create jobs. There is a need to be clear about companies; But you are not, Mr Minister: you are making them pay the cost of transforming the CICE into a reduction in costs, which I think is totally orthogonal, for the sake – I am also saying this to the rapporteur-general – of the whole policy that you intend to pursue. You will even make companies pay twice: first, by reducing the CICE rate from 7% to 6% of the payroll, then because this substitution will mechanically increase the results, and thus the total corporate tax cash flow. In our mind, it is only a matter of neutralizing these phenomena so that the transformation of the CICE plays full part. It is therefore not a race for the stallion, as the rapporteur-general put it: it is simply a matter of avoiding your reform being half a reform, and therefore a half a victory for the country's competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u269	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u270	I think the measure, as it appears in the finance bill, is good. The fact that the transformation of the CICE is likely to increase the proceeds of corporate tax has not escaped us; However, this increase will in any case be offset by lower costs. I would like to go back to what is the real life of companies. When a business results, it is taxed on corporate tax. Moreover, it often puts its result in reserve: it is not systematically distributed to shareholders.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u271	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u272	Still, 300 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u273	It can thus strengthen its equity. This strengthening of equity increases their independence. They can then finance their own development, and hire employees: it is a virtuous circle. We must not imagine that profits are always redistributed in the form of dividends to the dreadful capitalists. The real life of an SME, of a small business, is that: we put money in reserve, and we consolidate equity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u274	But that's not what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u275	I therefore believe that the measure proposed by the Government is excellent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u276	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1080.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u277	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u279	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u281	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u282	Mr Thierry Solère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u283	Minister, of course, we are in favour of this section, and of a reduction – or, more precisely, an alignment – of corporate tax. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, about the image that parliamentarians give when they sit in the assemblies. Last night, unless it was the night before, senators cut the budget and added €6 billion in additional spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u284	They are your comrades of the Republican Party!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u285	With Amendment No 1080 alone, we would add EUR 15 billion. On the other hand, we hear speeches that show that France is basically a tax haven, the government of which is merely making tax gifts. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether you are very lucid about the economic situation in our country: our debt amounts to EUR 2200 billion, and our taxation does not make our country competitive with its direct European neighbours. The Government's policy has clearly not been sufficiently tried in the past. It aims to make our country more competitive, to finally break with unemployment. I have the impression, to hear the Communist Members of Parliament and of unsuspecting France, that it is not an issue that interests you, that you are making fun of whether, thanks to this policy, real people will get a job in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u286	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u287	[[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on some benches of the REM group]] I therefore call on my colleagues to reject this amendment, and support the reduction of corporate taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u288	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u289	I cannot let it be said that Communist Members are disinterested in companies. I would like to point out one of our main proposals in the area of corporate taxation, namely the modulation of the corporate tax rate according to the company-led policy in terms of employment, training and investment in the work tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u290	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u291	If you consider that it is not necessary to question or intervene on the distribution of profits, profits, capital and labour, then say it right away!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u292	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u293	In any case, you cannot say that we are not interested in the future of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u295	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u296	I would like to reply to the inquiry of our colleague Thierry Solère, recalling the facts: yes, we are interested in companies; We have tabled a number of amendments on this subject. The majority must recognise that the members of our group have followed the debates until the end, very late in the night, for weeks. This shows how interested we are in this matter. We made several interventions on debt, for example – but maybe you weren't there then.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u297	We're not going to resume the debt debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u298	President Mélenchon made a very clear presentation on our concept of debt, which we see not as a problem but as an investment. We have drawn up a counter-budget, in which we clearly explain where we think we need to take the money, and how it needs to be redistributed, particularly in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. If you stay so far,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u299	No, he won't be here anymore! He's already gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u300	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... you will see that we have tabled an amendment to establish a redistribution fund. We do not have the same logic as you, but we are determined; We will continue to propose solutions, to argue, to debate, in favour of what we consider to be the general interest of this country, for business and for the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u301	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u302	I cannot let you say that, Mr Solère: if you are in favour of a reduction in corporate tax, then we had to vote for the amendment that I defended. As envisaged in the draft finance bill, this decline is truncated because the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in expenses will lead companies to pay more corporate tax than in the current system. That's the reality: you give with one hand, then you take one part of the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u303	Of course! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u304	That's why I was talking about the need for some common sense. [[Rites and exclamations]] I am not sure, moreover, that this amendment costs EUR 15 billion. First of all, I don't trust Bercy's numbers, which are still wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u305	That's reassuring!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u306	I can't let you say anything like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u307	I moderate the adverb "always": Bercy's figures are often false.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u308	Well, congratulations! And he's a former budget minister talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u309	[[Laughs]] I'm talking about experience! Evaluations of this kind, basically, are just what we want them to be. In any case, we do not have the same figures at all: we estimate the net cost of this amendment to be EUR 6 billion per year. To reach EUR 15 billion, you have to multiply it by three. Thirdly, we are responsible, because we take our positions. We consider, for example, that the removal of the housing tax for 80% of taxpayers is not a priority measure. The priority is the economy, because when the economy is doing well, employment is improving, as is purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u310	To balance speaking between groups,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u311	From now on?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u312	[[Smile]] Did we reset the counters to zero?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u313	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Rabault, then Mr Carrez, and finally to Mrs Cariou. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u314	Mr. Solère, I can't let you say that: the senators who added 6 billion euros of expenses the day before yesterday, in the night, were your colleagues in the party. The Republicans two months ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u315	Ten days ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u316	Not long ago, you shared their views.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u317	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u318	In your place, Mr. Solère, I would therefore remain more modest in terms of the senators of the Republican Party. Secondly, you speak of France as if it were a tax bank. But if that were the case, we would not be the fifth economic power in the world. On the contrary, our global ranking proves that there is creativity, productivity, innovation and intelligence in our country: this is the driving force behind our economic success, before taxation. If you don't have intelligence, creativity or innovation, you won't get anything. Zero times zero equals zero. We are talking a lot about taxation; I'd rather we talk about productivity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u319	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u320	I would like to look at the issue of corporate tax from a different perspective. I am very concerned: we are losing all budgetary sovereignty over corporate tax, because we are not fighting effectively in Brussels. I explain: we have just lost EUR 9 billion as a result of a corporate tax dispute.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u321	At least $9 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u322	In addition, our colleague Christine Pires Beaune, in her special report, has just estimated the risks associated with old disputes – this is the issue of the furniture discount, the follow-up to the UCITS tax system, the Steria case, and others. All these cases are likely to cost us between 10 and 20 billion euros. I believe that corporate tax has a primary purpose: to finance public expenditure under Article 13 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights. These include expenses for justice, health and safety. However, we are the victims of a series of decisions, at the level of the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union, which are subsequently declined in domestic law by the Council of State and the Constitutional Council, and which take away all sovereignty from us. For what consideration, minister? The counterpart to this loss of sovereignty should be genuine fiscal harmonisation. Does it exist? Are you able to recover corporate tax revenues from GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon? Are you able to collect them from those who are going to settle in Ireland, where the corporate tax rate is only 12%? [[Applause on the benches of the LR, GDR and FI groups]] I would like the issue of corporate tax to be considered as an issue of national sovereignty from now on, since there is no tax harmonisation. I'm in a good position to know, for the rest; I have been rapporteur-general of the budget for ten years and chairman of the Committee on Finance for five years. Unfortunately, I was able to see that in terms of tax harmonisation we have fallen both on rates and on the corporate tax base.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u323	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u324	I would like to reply to Mr Woerth on the impact in terms of corporate tax on the abolition of the CICE. If we replace this tax credit with reductions in direct charges, it is not for companies to form a pact – in which case they will have to pay taxes on it. There will not simply be an effect of communicating vases: the decrease in costs must allow companies either to hire additional employees or to invest – but these investments will be reflected as depreciation, i.e. operating expenses. The removal of the CICE and the effects on corporate tax will therefore not be symmetrical.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u325	We didn't say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u326	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I maintain that a decrease in expenses, which reduces the flow of expenditures into operating income, is more interesting and less complicated for businesses than a tax credit reported the following year, and which can be challenged by tax controls. The reduction in charges is simpler, more legible for businesses. It allows them to make new investments or hire other people: in both cases, companies will not pay corporate tax on the money they will save as a result of lower expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u327	But that's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u328	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u329	I do not want to prolong the debates, but this is a major issue; I will also add some additional elements. First of all, I repeat how important the provisions adopted this afternoon are for the Government's economic strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u330	It would be better if it were for the country's economic strategy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u331	All the choices we make in terms of competitiveness and enterprise size development depend largely on the reduction in corporate taxes, which we want to increase from 33.3% to 25%. Mr Carrez, you are right to stress the European dimension of the problem, but to be honest, it must be recognised that this is a difficult fight – we all know that. It is not enough for France to press a button so that all the states comply, put their finger on the seam of the trousers: it is a fight. Everyone can still recognize that with the President of the Republic, we are fighting this fight. And even if things move too slowly to my taste, they move. With regard to the taxation of digital giants, for years we have been totally blocked at the OECD – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – with a basic tax-payable corporate tax project that was no longer moving forward. We set a big kick in the anthill by putting forward a new proposal, at the Tallinn Council of Finance Ministers, to tax digital giants on the basis of turnover. Immediately, everyone shouts loudly saying that this is not the right tax base. Perhaps, but it has a merit: we know it, so we can tax it, while corporate tax requires knowing the profits, which is not the case. I am sorry to be very pragmatic about this, but at least we have advanced, with, I would like to point out, four driving states: Germany, France, Italy and Spain. The European Commission has sent us a formal proposal, which includes the French proposal and also envisages a company tax with a harmonised basis. Things are progressing, and it is France that has unlocked the situation. I would like to commend the efforts of the European Commission, Mrs Vestager, to be quite specific. The Commission has shown a courage in the taxation of digital giants, which I would like to welcome, in particular by demanding that Apple pay what this company owes to the European Union. This is still the first time in the history of the European Union that a digital giant has been ordered to pay a fine of more than EUR 10 billion. This is not negligible, and I can tell you that it takes political courage to reach such a decision. Finally, with regard to tax harmonisation, you are right to point out that we have been talking about it for years. One of the first to put the subject on the table was the President of the Republic Nicolas Sarkozy, saying that there was a need to harmonize the tax on companies between France and Germany. I spent an infinite amount of time looking at why things had not progressed, why neither the German treasury nor the French treasure had advanced this proposal. First of all, there are national interests, there are also technical problems – it is difficult to establish exactly the basis of corporate tax in each of the two countries. However, I promise you, Gilles Carrez and all the parliamentarians present here, we will move forward in the coming months on the fiscal convergence between Germany and France. Together with Germany, we have set up a working group to examine the smallest technical details, because that is what the great political ambitions in tax matters are about. Big statements are great; The results are even better. The very nature of this majority is to want results for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u332	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u333	Mr Joël Giraud, in support of Amendment No. 1834, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u334	This is a precise amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u335	On Article 41, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1721.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u336	Our assembly voted, under the previous legislature, to reduce the IS rate from 33 to 28 per cent by 2020, but gradually expanding its scope according to the size of the companies and the profits generated. The objective was obviously not the same as today, since it was a matter of favouring SMEs as a matter of priority, which are, as we know, penalized in relation to the major groups. With Article 41, the new majority retains the target for 2018 but goes much further since it is envisaged to lower the rate of the IS up to 25% by 2022, and moreover for all companies. Our amendment proposes to maintain the mechanism voted last year, which was supposed to apply on 1 January 2018: the extension to all SMEs of the 15% reduced rate, now reserved for companies with a turnover of less than EUR 7.6 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u338	I stress that we really need to link the maintenance of the current 7.63 million turnover cap with the increase in the reduction in the normal rate, now set at 25% instead of 28%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u339	But that was already voted on last year!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u340	It is because the normal rate will be reduced by 3 points that the reduced rate ceiling is maintained at 7.63 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u341	We are not asking to change that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u342	Would you listen to me? From 166,000 euros of profit, the new trajectory proposed in this PLF is more interesting than the one adopted last year. It is indeed more advantageous to be taxed at 25% on the total profit than to be taxed at 15% on the first 38120 euros and 28% on the rest. I would point out that 166,000 euros of profits correspond to a turnover of between 2.5 million and 3 million euros, which is very much below the ceiling of 7.63 million euros which the Government intends to maintain.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u343	But so do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u344	The opinion is unfavourable, as it will be on the following withdrawal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u345	I can't leave these words unanswered!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u346	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u347	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u348	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u349	Mr General, I cannot let you say that because that is not true. Our amendment tends to retain the mechanism voted on last year, not to crush the one you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u350	I did not say that your amendment was crushing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u351	But if: you said a 28% drop would be less good than 25%. However, we propose to stay exactly on the path you set out in section 41. On the other hand, there is a super-reduced rate – call it as you like – at 15% for the first 38120 euros of net profit of companies with less than 7.63 million euros of turnover. However, this ceiling does not correspond to anything in the European definitions. That is 50 million francs, but we gave up the franc 16 years ago! We can now reason in euros, which means adopting the European definition of SMEs, which sets a turnover ceiling of EUR 50 million. We have tabled two amendments on the subject. In the latter, No 1721, we say that, in order to give a real signal to companies, the super-reduced rate must apply to the first 100,000 euros of net profit. This is what is being done in the United States and Canada: there is a clear franchise on the first amounts earned for SMEs, which pay zero. We do not propose to go that far but, I agree with you, even a super-reduced cost will cost a little money: 1 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u352	A billion and a half!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u353	I said 1 billion euros. But perhaps it is not this amendment that should be given priority. Hence our withdrawal amendment: let us return to the provision voted last year, which applied this super-reduced rate to all SMEs! While you, with section 41, crush part of the device by excluding 20,000 SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u354	Please come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u355	I'm finishing, Mr. President. We want a super-reduced rate for all SMEs. This will cost EUR 200 million, twice the cost of the amendment on the free actions that you voted in half an hour, which will benefit many fewer companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u356	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u357	Mrs Émilie Cariou spoke on our amendments proposing to reduce the rate of the IS, to say that there was no reason to link the evolution of the corporate tax with the CICE, as Mr Eric Woerth had done.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u358	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u359	I would like to reply to him because I believe that it is necessary to adopt such an overall view when discussing business taxation, especially in view of the effects of the arrangements made by the majority. Thus, the reduction of the CICE by 1 point, from 7 % to 6 %, represents EUR 3.2 billion, and its transformation into a reduction in social charges will have an impact on the performance of enterprises in proportion to their increase. There will therefore be an effect on corporate tax. Let's take a 25 per cent corporate tax rate: of the 6 points, that's 1.5 percentage points, which means you're cutting aid from 7 per cent now to 4.5 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u360	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u361	No one can deny this reasoning: it is the figures that will apply to companies. That is why we propose to go further in the area of IS.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u362	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u363	[[Applause on several benches of MODEM and REM groups]] Mrs Rabault, I agree with the rapporteur-general. Your intention to extend the super-reduced rate of the first 38120 euros of results in order to make companies benefit from it up to 50 million turnovers is of course commendable. But let us be a little realistic: even for the SME at the limit of the current ceiling of €7.6 million, the maximum threshold of the first 38120 euros is not really considerable! For a company that carries out 50 million business, it is even very symbolic. Perhaps it would be better if we refrained from voting on measures of the order of the symbol.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u364	We can go up to 100 million! I'm in!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u365	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u366	I fully agree with what Mr Barrot has said. I just want to answer Mrs. Louwagie that she's thinking at constant perimeters. It is true that a reduction in charges mechanically increases the base and the pre-tax income, and thus leads to a higher corporation tax. But it is not to understand how a tax policy is developed for businesses, not to understand that not all things are equal elsewhere, when the CICE is abolished and when a reduction in direct charges is created.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u367	Except for the I.S.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u368	A drop in direct charges increases the margins of companies, allowing them to invest, to hire, so indirectly to increase their turnover of tomorrow and their pre-tax results. It must be understood that we are creating a dynamic of growth, not just a higher pre-tax base. In addition, you are forgetting, Mrs Louwagie, an extremely important point: the reduction in corporate tax to 25% by 2022 will in any case lead to a lower tax than that paid by businesses today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u369	On Amendment No 1722, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 1722.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u370	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u371	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u372	The rapporteur-general has just said that Amendment No 1721 would cost too much: 1.5 billion. Amendment No 1722 would cost a little less.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u373	200 million!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u374	[[Smile]] Straw!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u375	I will repeat Mrs Louwagie's reasoning, which Mr Saint-Martin is absolutely wrong to challenge. She explains that by reducing the CICE from 7% to 6%, the state is saving 3.2 billion euros compared to the current situation. And next year, by turning the CICE into a drop in costs, it will mechanically increase the profits of companies by almost 20 billion euros, which, on the basis of a rate that I already assume – out of generosity – by 25%, will allow it to benefit, all other things equal, from additional tax revenues of 5 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u376	That's a total of $8 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u377	[[Smile]] In the space of two seconds, I have just made an addition with a result of 8 billion savings. You will not tell me, Mr Saint-Martin, that with these 8 billion savings, we cannot finance the 200 million of Mrs Rabault's excellent amendment! The double decision to lower the CICE and then turn it into a drop in costs would allow more than much to finance the decline in the IS rate by 2022. It's arithmetic, Mr. Saint-Martin.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u378	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u379	[[Smile]] My speech will give everyone time to return to their place to vote. It will also give me the opportunity to respond to Mr.Carrez's arguments, which I have known in the past, more concerned about public accounts. It's not that simple, Mr. Carrez, I think you know as well as I do. I could come up with figures other than those just presented. I believe, however, that Mr Saint-Martin's reasoning was quite convincing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u380	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1722.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u381	I put rule 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u382	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u383	I have before me an amendment No 1658, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 1916. The next speaker is Mr Thomas Rudigoz, in support of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u384	My amendment is aimed at correcting a tax anomaly: as you know, Article 15 of the NOTRE Act – the new territorial organization of the Republic – has transferred the transport competence of the departments to the regions. In order to accompany this transfer and the resulting costs, Article 89 of the Finance Act for 2016 provided for the shift to the benefit of the regions of 25 points of the contribution on the added value of enterprises – the CVAE –, which was collected by the departments. However, the city of Lyon has not transferred any of the tasks referred to in Article 15 of the NOTRE Act, either because they are missions it does not carry out, or because this Act recognizes the special status of the metropolitan community and provides for specific derogations concerning this transfer of powers. In addition, the Lyon metropolis has the full economic powers normally vested in the departments and, in its territory, it is the main community in terms of economic strategy. Thus, logically, in the absence of any substantial transfer of powers, the metropolis of Lyon should not be subject to the transfer of tax revenues for the benefit of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. That is why Amendment No 1658 aims to clarify that the share of the contribution on the value added of enterprises devolved to the metropolis of Lyon is not affected by the provisions of Article 89 of the Finance Act for 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u385	Mr Joël Giraud has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 1916 and give the committee's opinion on Amendment No. 1658.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u386	The committee is in favour of Amendment No 1658, subject to the adoption of my sub-amendment, so that the arrangements you are planning are not retroactive, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u387	But that's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u388	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Indeed, as drafted, your amendment would apply to the distribution of the overall product in 2018, but on the basis of the taxes due for 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u389	We can't let this go!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u390	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u391	This amendment goes back to the conditions for financing, provided for by the NOTRE Act, of the transfer to the regions of departmental responsibility for non-urban transport. It lays down a new specific compensation rule between the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and the metropolis of Lyon, to the detriment of the former and to the benefit of the latter, it is perfectly clear. It would result – just that – in introducing a Lyon exception by depriving this region and its inhabitants of the dynamics of the CVAE, while all the other French regions benefit from it. This amendment is therefore particularly serious because it introduces a break in equality between the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and all the other French regions. It also introduces a break in equality within the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, since the twelve departments that make up it share their CVAE for transport with the region, calculated on the basis of 2016. On the other hand, for the city of Lyon alone, the reference period chosen would be 2017. Furthermore, as has been said, Amendment No 1658 would be retroactive since it would apply as early as 2017, in violation of a budgetary principle. This is therefore a very good budget rider. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, the Government has spent its time explaining to us, in recent days, that it was impossible to change the rules of local taxation, in particular the FPIC, the National Fund for Equalization of Intercommunal and Communal Resources. This afternoon, if this amendment is adopted, you are about to contradict everything we have said for two days. It introduces an unacceptable injustice within the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and between all the regions of France. It would be very appropriate to reject him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u392	Is Mr Collomb one of the signatories to the amendment? We'd have to check it out!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u393	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u394	We had this debate at the end of last year, in December: we had then discovered a specific provision, totally derogating from the common law, in favour of the urban community of Lyon, which created a real breach of equality that would pose a problem to the Constitutional Council if it had been adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u395	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u396	At the time, the majority honoured themselves by refusing to accept this custom-made derogation system, without any justification whatsoever, proposed in the form of an amendment by the Government: it was legitimately rejected by our Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I am very surprised to see this measure come back in the course of the examination of the non-attached articles and to hear the rapporteur-general simply say that it should not be retroactive. It's really not a way to work. If the majority votes, it will not be in her honour, while she prides herself on voting fair laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u397	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u398	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr. Carrez, you're doing a little too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u399	Everyone has the right to express himself, however!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u400	Please, ladies and gentlemen, listen to Mr Rudigoz.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u401	This measure is not unfair. I would like to remind you that the metropolis of Lyon is a specific community: it is the only territorial community in our country to combine the competences of a departmental council and an urban community. Its creation was the result of a long and intelligent work, led at the time by Michel Mercier, president of the department, and Gérard Collomb, mayor of Lyon and president of the urban community. As a result, the MAPTAM law – the law on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises – has created a separate territorial community, indeed a little original, of which I hope that the model will, in the future, be copied to other territories. As far as taxation is concerned, I would point out that the region must make payments for the benefit of the metropolis, because some of its powers are not exercised in the territory of the metropolis: non-urban and school transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u402	Collomb's been there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u403	Apart from interdepartmental school transport, i.e. between the metropolis and the Rhône department, which cost 1 million euros, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region gives the metropolis of Lyon almost all the 130 million euros it collects. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Therefore, we would honour ourselves above all by avoiding this type of financial and tax transfers, by allocating the proceeds of the contribution on the added value of enterprises to the community that really exercises the skills in economic development in its territory, that is, the metropolis of Lyon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u404	Not like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u405	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u406	During a whole evening, we heard the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Gérard Collomb, explain, besides Lyon is the center of the world, that we should never derogate from any rule,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u407	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u408	...that special revenue should not be allocated to metropolitan groupings or suburban towns...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u409	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u410	...and Corsica, which is also a separate community since the region and the two departments will merge on 1 January.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u411	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u412	The FPIC doesn't move!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u413	And, after hearing Gérard Collomb tell us this a whole evening, today, when he is not there, we should, as far as Lyon is concerned, derogate from the common law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u414	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u415	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If it is in this way that the Republic on the move conceives the territorial balance, bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u416	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u417	Minister, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u418	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR, NG and GDR groups]] Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u419	We've been there all night!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u420	It's outrageous and vicious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u421	I hope that our debates will regain their serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u422	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u423	Mr President, if there is total serenity, the Rules of Procedure apply, in particular Rule 58. It is customary, after the Minister has given the Government's opinion, for a speaker to speak. That is why the Republican Group is asking for the floor. If it is not granted to us, we will be led to request a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u424	I give you the floor again, Mr. Larrivée.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u425	Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, I know you are committed to history. So you know that the privileges were abolished on the night of August 4, 1789. The amendment before us is an amendment of privilege, drawn up in the secret of Place Beauvau to please the Prince of Lyon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u426	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u427	That is the technical reality of this amendment, which derogates from ordinary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u428	He's not totally derogatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u429	[[Conciliabules]] I am not a member of the Committee on Finance but a member of the Committee on Laws: I believe it is up to us to uphold the fundamental principle of the Republic's laws, the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u430	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u431	I am speaking to the Members of the La République group on the move: as you claim to embody the new world and progress, what is this practice of the old world of defending a totally derogatory status in order to please the great leader of the metropolis of Lyon, who is still today the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Gérard Collomb? For our part, we defend the interest of all the inhabitants of France: there is no reason for the inhabitants of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region to be disadvantaged whether or not they live in the metropolis of Lyon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u432	It's the people of Isère who'll be happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u433	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This amendment is a villainous amendment, a partisan amendment, a Collomb amendment. We ask you to reject it and we are very surprised that the Minister of Economy and Finance does not express himself, contenting himself with a favourable opinion, as if he had thus admitted the deal between Bercy and Place Beauvau on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u434	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u435	Before suspending the sitting at the request of Mr Bruneel, who has received a delegation from his group, I should like to inform you that, on Amendment No 1658, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u436	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u437	The meeting was resumed. I shall first put to the vote, by show of hands, Subamendment No 1916, which has received a favourable opinion from the Committee and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u438	I now put to the vote, by public vote, Amendment No 1658, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u439	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u440	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u441	We're leaving!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u442	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LR, NG, FI and GDRquitten Groups are present in the Chamber, followed by several Members of the MODEM Group.]] We'll leave you two to each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u443	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 42. Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u444	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Article 42 is a campaign commitment. As the President of the Republic announced during the presidential election, as well as the candidates of the Republic running during the legislative campaign, and as the Prime Minister recalled in his general policy speech on 4 July, we want to abolish the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – and replace it with a direct reduction of burdens. Through this reform, we are responding to a long-standing demand from professionals. It will reduce labour costs and maximize the impact on employment by increasing wage reductions. It will also simplify the system: no more reporting formalities specific to the CICE, no longer any delay before benefiting from the relief, no more procedures for setting up credit pre-financing files. Finally, it will improve the cash flow of companies and ensure equality between them, since the reliefs will apply to all companies, including those involved in the social and solidarity economy, and not only to companies liable for corporate tax or income tax. You understand this: this article is part of our project to free energy, strengthen the competitiveness of our companies and promote employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u445	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u446	Article 42 aims to remove the competitiveness and employment tax credit, the CICE, and to replace it with a reduction in employer contributions from 1 January 2019. This relief, introduced by the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018, will be to permanently reduce employer contributions by 6 points for wages below 2.5 times the SMIC, with an increased reduction of 3.9 points at the SMIC level. In order to organize the transition from one system to another, the rate of the tax credit will be reduced from 7 % to 6 % for remuneration paid as of January 1, 2018, the rate applicable in 2016. This choice contributes to the sustainability of the budget without seriously penalising companies. This measure will make it possible to increase the support to enterprises in practice, by making immediate, in the form of an exemption, aid which has so far been delayed because it was received in the year following the year in which the wages were paid. It will thus improve the cash flow of enterprises, maximising its effect on employment by increasing the reliefs on low wages, by facilitating employers' approaches, which will thus be issued specific reporting formalities to the CICE, and by extending its scope to all employers, beyond only those liable for corporate tax or income tax. It is a reunification of the cost of work for all: companies, private employers or associations. This is a clear reform with a articulation that allows companies to avoid a white year in which they would not benefit from any reduction in labour costs. As the Prime Minister had the opportunity to recall, companies will benefit from a cash gain of around €21 billion in 2019, which alone could create some 35,000 jobs that year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u447	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u448	Let us not be mistaken about the debate. All these measures systematically bring us back to the goal with a great O: job creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u449	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u450	This article is excellent news since it aims to remove the CICE. The reports and evaluations published by various bodies, first and foremost France Strategy, showed the waste of public money that this tax credit represented: 100,000 jobs created or saved, i.e. 400,000 euros of public money per job; The figures are striking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u451	[[At 19:00, Mr. Sacha Houlié replaced Mr. Sylvain Waserman in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u452	We welcome the fact that the executive finally hears the arguments put forward by communist parliamentarians for years. We believe that this financial manna must be used for other purposes: the development of territories, public services, housing, job creation and investment support. In fact, by replacing the CICE with a substantial and lasting reduction in wage and employer contributions, the Government does not learn any lessons from the assessments made by independent bodies. The Social Security Funding Bill provides for a 6-point reduction in employer contributions for wages below 2.5 SMIC and their total elimination for salaries at SMIC. This is a real incentive to mispay employees. Beyond that, in 2019, the CICE and this reduction in contributions will be combined to waste 40 billion euros of public money. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose that you keep this money and use it usefully for the country: for investment and support to the real economy, in support of the order book of our companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u453	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u454	The CICE has been totally ineffective in generating investment and fighting unemployment. The numerous studies carried out on the subject have shown this, and I will not go back to this absolutely insane figure, which shows that it took 400,000 euros of public money to create or maintain a job. With 100,000 jobs created or saved, we are far from the figure of 1 million jobs proudly announced on a pin's. Where did the CICE money go? Difficult to say, given the lack of conditionality of the device and the absence of any dangling. However, it can be seen that the CICE has gradually settled in the tax landscape, becoming an unconditional public policy for the reconstruction of business margins. Today, you are proposing not to transform but to perpetuate this policy, when many of our citizens remain permanently away from employment. You talk to us about competitiveness and attractiveness, but your tax bets are not based on any sound economic theory. In any case, they will once again increase the cost of capital to our businesses, to employment and to the State. As the many social and restructuring plans announced this week – at Castorama, GE Hydro – show, it is the financial requirements that impose their laws on businesses. Positions will be abolished and redundancies will take place, while the groups in question are profitable, but insufficient in the eyes of their shareholders. Behind them, families will experience tragedies and territories will undoubtedly suffer. Your tax choices will unfortunately amplify this movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u455	I have before me four amendments, Nos 518, 1396, 1527 and 1821, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 518.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u456	I cannot begin to defend this amendment without going back to what has just happened with the scandalous amendment No 1658. I am the only one in my group who has remained in the Chamber, and even our MODEM colleagues have left. What we have just experienced is not worthy of national representation; It is an old political manoeuvre and a shameful arrangement. Having said that, Article 42 refers to the strategic direction you are taking to improve competitiveness. We share this goal, but we question the means you imagine, especially the increase in the CSG. In the short term, you will even increase the cost of labour, by reducing the competitiveness and employment tax credit from 7 to 6%. With this amendment, of which our colleague Damien Abad is the first signatory, we propose to create a competitive shock, replacing the CICE with a reduction in the burden on work. This would have a massive and immediate effect, and it would improve wages. This measure would be financed by an increase in the VAT standard rate, in the framework of a competitive VAT system, whose revenue would be divided between a reduction in employers' costs, by two thirds, and a decrease in wage costs, for the remaining third. This measure would have the dual advantage of having an immediate effect on the reduction of the burdens of companies without setting up a gas plant, unlike the CICE, which was criticized until most of the time. Moreover, it would have no impact on the intermediate VAT rate and would therefore not penalise labour activities. This is therefore a much fairer choice for the French – for the most modest of them, the two main items of expenditure are rent and food, which would not be affected by this increase in VAT. By adopting our amendment, you will allow more jobs and more purchasing power. This is a real proposal for our debate, which does not involve an increase in the CSG, which is denied by honourable senators.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u457	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1396.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u458	Our amendment to delete the CICE is contrary to the argument made by our colleague from the Republican Group. Indeed, the CICE is a tax gift without any real criteria for allocation or compensation for job creation commitments, while it represents a staggering cost to the state, as explained by our communist colleagues. France Strategy's report, published on 4 October, estimates the cost of the CICE at EUR 16.5 billion for 2017 alone and recalls that this scheme has had almost no impact on employment. It would have created or saved between 10,000 and 200,000 jobs – the range, you will agree, is quite broad – between 2013 and 2015, which is an extremely unreasonable cost per job. In particular, it would have led to an increase in executive salaries, which shows that this credit is far from being used only to create new jobs. In addition, it is the large companies that benefit most from this scheme, even though they need it the least. This reminds me of the debate earlier on the reduction of corporate tax: again, it is an unequal measure according to companies. Your desire to sustain the CICE through reductions in employer contributions only worsens the evil, since, according to the OFCE – the French Economic Observatory – the latter would have about the same cost as the CICE, i.e. EUR 16 billion. Above all, employers' contributions finance essential things such as compensation for days off work in the event of an accident, related care, occupational diseases, training and apprenticeship, which you have been acclaiming and which you claim to want to develop through investments. As in other measures that you propose, there is, therefore, again a fundamental contradiction. On the contrary, we would like to support companies by setting up an inter-firm fund, which would allow the social contribution to be pooled between all companies and groups. We oppose the maintenance of the CICE and the reduction of social contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u459	Thank you, Mrs. Obono. Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 1527.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u460	Like other amendments that will be considered at a later stage, this amendment concerns the Overseas Territories. The overseas departments do not benefit from the usual exemptions from wage charges, so that the disappearance of the CICE – first in whistles, then in total – decided before the holding of the Overseas Assises, would, according to my colleagues in these territories, cause real difficulties. We therefore very simply call for the continuation of the CICE scheme overseas, pending the holding of the Assizes and possible compensatory measures, to the benefit of the jobs, which are low-paid and for which the disappearance of the CICE would be detrimental.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u461	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 1821.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u462	This amendment, of which the first signatory is Mr Serva – I regret his absence – is of common sense, since overseas policy will be based on the results of the Assisi. As these have not yet taken place, it does not seem useful to me to return to the question of the CICE overseas rate, which amounts to 9% of the wage bill instead of 7% in metropolitan France. You plan to reduce the national rate to 6%. We believe that it is necessary to maintain the CICE overseas at 9% to support the local economic dynamics. If the CICE were to move towards exemptions from charges, the principle of this tax credit should be maintained, especially since the LODEOM law – the law for the economic development of overseas countries and territories – already provides for exemptions from charges, which may interfere with those which you intend to carry out here. I therefore propose to maintain a rate of 9%. The tax advantage is, in my view, very important, whether it takes the form of a tax reduction or an exemption, on two conditions: as you said earlier, that we can influence it; above all, that conditionalities are foreseen – and it is regrettable that this is not the case here. In the overseas departments and regions, sectors are affected, including tourism: from 1000 to 2000 rooms are closed in Guadeloupe and Martinique, and we consider it necessary to provoke a competitive shock, which is essential to create a dynamic. It is with this in mind that I propose the establishment of a CICE or an exemption from improved charges, in order to recover sums which are now ridiculously paid to La Poste, to banks and to large areas, and to transfer them where they are needed, particularly in the tourism sector: I call for the creation of a CICE in the ultramarine tourism sector, whose rate would be set at 37%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u463	What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u464	These amendments, although subject to joint discussion, are all of a different nature. As regards the one to which Mr Abad is the first signatory, the measure would be financed by an increase in VAT which would really affect the purchasing power of households, and the people who do not work would suffer this increase in full. Your project, Mr. Bazin, is totally orthogonal to that of the Government, which is more robust and better targeted. If you wish to change the reliefs for social security contributions, I invite you to amend Article 8 of the PLFSS rather than the non-attached articles of the PLF; That would seem more natural to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u465	Everyone can be a horseman in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u466	Everyone can be a horseman, that's for sure... The amendment to which Mrs Ressiguier is the first signatory aims to abolish the CICE as early as 2018,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u467	Simplification!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u468	... without replacing it with another support device. We would end up without the possible pre-financing of the CICE for 2018, which would penalize the most fragile companies. New businesses created in 2018 would benefit from nothing. Mrs Obono, I therefore invite you to support the position of the Government,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u469	You're not serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u470	... which consists of deleting the CICE from 2019, so that there is a substitute, which seems more interesting to me. The amendment of which Mr Serva is the first signatory proposes to keep the CICE exclusively in the Overseas Territories, at a cost of €0.5 billion. The Government proposes to transform the IECC into burden relief, as the Overseas Territories are entitled to such relief as the rest of the country. Therefore, quite honestly, this amendment is not justified. Mr Letchimy, I would like to reassure you that the 9% premium rate for the overseas CICE will be well maintained next year. Your amendment would like to raise it to 37% for a future CICE; you understand that this rate is well beyond the regulatory limits governing state aid. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u471	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u472	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u473	He's unfavorable. At the beginning of the discussion on the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in long-term burdens, which complements the provisions just passed on the reduction of corporate taxes, I would like to point out the importance attached to this: these are two major decisions for our economy and for employment. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Without going back to the reduction in corporate tax, I hear the comments from the statistical studies on the CICE that this tax credit would not have had a sufficient impact on job creation or that the reduction in costs would not be effective in creating jobs in France. I do not agree with these analyses. If you want to help those who have the lowest income levels, those who are at the level of the SMIC, those who have the most difficulty finding a job, that is, those among whom the unemployment rate is the highest, you have to lower the costs, not by a tax credit but permanently, permanently. The transformation of the CICE into a reduction in the long-term burden is a way of reaching out to those who find it most difficult to find a job. I would appreciate it if we could once try to remove these low-wage reliefs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u474	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u475	If a parliamentarian is willing to make the betting, dangerous for employment, dangerous for the weakest, not to ease the burden on low wages, let him do it, but it will be without us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u476	It's just your analysis, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u477	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u478	My point of order is based on Rule 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure on the procedure. Something very serious has just happened, Mr President: the conditions for the examination of Amendment No 1658, on which my colleague, Émilie Bonnivard, has excelled. This amendment, which dealt with local and regional authorities, was introduced as part of the review of the non-attached articles, although it could have been introduced under the "Relationship with Local and Regional Authorities" mission, on which we spent a great deal of time discussing. Secondly, this amendment has not been discussed in committee, or it has been discussed in accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the details of which we know. Earlier, the procedure was not followed. Traditionally, the rapporteur-general and then the minister formulate their opinion, after which the chairman gives the floor to Members wishing to speak. That was not the case: once the amendment had been defended, a number of speakers spoke immediately – and I see that some colleagues agree. In addition, the rapporteur-general has indicated his motivation in a laconic way, and the minister has merely given an opinion, without developing his arguments. What just happened is very serious. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not proud of this renewal: some of the inhabitants of a territory, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, are being sacrificed. The way in which this amendment has been discussed is deeply unacceptable. It is an injustice, a sacrifice of certain populations. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the FI and GDR groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I therefore ask – I even demand – that the Conference of Presidents meet immediately. Otherwise, I will ask for a 15-minute suspension of the meeting. After an incident of such magnitude, which is absolutely unacceptable, it is important to convene the Conference of Presidents! You, ladies and gentlemen, who advocate renewal, will not, I hope, be able to look at you tonight in an ice cream!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u479	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u480	Where's the rule call?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u481	Mrs Louwagie, since you have your group's delegation, I accept your request, which is by right: the meeting is suspended for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u482	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u483	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u484	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In order to express my views on the amendments under discussion, I will wait until we can debate them under acceptable conditions. I ask for another suspension of sitting...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u485	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u486	We don't let go!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u487	... because I agree with the arguments of my colleagues from all the minority groups in this House on the undemocratic and absolutely unacceptable way in which the debates have taken place.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u488	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u489	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u490	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u491	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u492	Mr President, in view of the impugned and questionable circumstances of the vote on Subamendment No 1916 and Amendment No 1658, which have become an article by virtue of their adoption, I would like to ask, on behalf of the Committee on Finance, for a second debate on this new Article at the end of the examination of the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u493	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u494	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the MODEM and GDR groups]] Mr President, I asked for a meeting of the Conference of Presidents and I thank you for contacting the President of the National Assembly, with whom we were able to exchange views. I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Finance for having reacted as he did. The moment is serious and the subject matter is eminently important. All this could be indicative of how the majority agrees – or not – to work with us in the National Assembly Chamber. Thank you once again, Mr. President, for joining the Speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u495	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u496	Mr President, on behalf of the New Left Group, I join my colleague Véronique Louwagie in thanking you and the President of the National Assembly for having accepted this interlude – let us call it that – and to return to the controversial amendment. Its adoption poses a problem, of course, in terms of form, but above all in terms of substance. If you accede to this request for second deliberation, Mr President, it will only take place at the end of our debates, which will leave us all a few hours to reflect and, I suppose, to make another decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u497	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u498	I can only welcome the fact that reason has finally progressed in the Chamber. I therefore join in the remarks just made. This is, I would remind you, the second incident of this nature. As is the case with many of us, this is my first parliamentary experience, and I think we need to realize that this incident is quite shocking from a symbolic point of view and rather destabilizing with regard to the conditions of the debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u499	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u500	...because of the substance of the disagreement as well as the form.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u501	Yeah, shape too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u502	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Exclaims]] Many of us have regularly stressed the conditions under which we work. I hope that this incident will have at least one merit: perhaps we will now pay more attention to methodology and procedures, because that is also what determines the quality of our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u503	Wonderful! The LR Group applauds an intervention by the FI Group!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u504	We're objective!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u505	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u506	On behalf of the GDR Group, I agree with everything that has just been said. This will not change the substance, but we can try to talk together and vote in better conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u507	Perhaps the Government will think!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u508	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I too welcome the wisdom and political intelligence that prevailed in this House: the group presidents or their representatives were able to meet and discuss with the President of the National Assembly, in order to find this solution, which provides an interlude, a time for reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u509	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u510	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u511	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u512	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LR and GDR groups as well as on some benches of the NG group]] I join what has just been said, in particular the fact that collective wisdom has been expressed on the benches of our assembly. A question of form has obscured the substantive issue, the stakes of which are probably more important. In any case, the solution proposed by the chairman of the Committee on Finance, which deals with form, will allow us to reflect more firmly on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u513	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u514	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u515	[[Smile]] [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] On behalf of the Constructive Group, I naturally associate myself with everything that has just been said. First, on form, we all have to learn, to progress collectively. Indeed, the form was not respected. Although we are constructive, we believe that we must not sit down on the forms, that we must respect them. As they say in the North, it will be an opportunity to put the work back on the job – I think it is also said in Lyon, which is a silky country. We shall therefore take advantage of this period to exercise our wisdom and to reconsider, in substance, this amendment, to which the Group of the European People's Party is committed. The Constructives opposed each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u516	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u517	I do not understand very well these great statements about the fact that we would not have respected the democratic principles of our House, but I take note of them. Like Mr Carrez, I would like to recall what happened in 2016 during the examination of the PLF – I was not elected at the time. At first reading, a similar amendment – because it is a long-standing fight in Lyon – tabled by the Government had been adopted. In a new reading – I am astonished that we were not waiting, like last year, for the new reading, because we would have had all the time to debate at that time –...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u518	Why was the amendment not discussed in the debate on local and regional authorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u519	...Mr. Carrez had achieved a very good political coup: in an empty three-quarters or four-fifths hemicycle, thanks to an overrepresentation of the Republicans group, which is, of course, part of the political game, he had managed to have the provision abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u520	You were at the PS back then!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u521	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] The present situation is therefore not extraordinary. If my amendment had been adopted by show of hands, I could understand your emolument, but it has been, I would like to remind you all, by public vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u522	But under illegal conditions on the form!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u523	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I am therefore surprised that we are obliged to reconsider this decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u524	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1058.u525	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the second part of the 2018 Finance Bill: Further to the review of the non-attached sections. The meeting is adjourned.
