ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u2	We are discussing the review of the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Rural Affairs" and the appropriations relating to the special trust account "Agricultural and Rural Development" (No. 273, Volume III, Annexes 4 and 5; No. 264, Volume III). The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, French agriculture must now be transformed in depth. This transformation is essential to meet three major challenges: ensuring the ecological transition, meeting the strengthened demands of consumers and citizens, and enabling resilience in a world of growing instability, hazards and crises. The President of the Republic set the course in his speech in Rungis on 11 October. He recalled that strong and efficient agriculture is a decisive asset in ensuring one of the keys to sovereignty, food sovereignty. In order to create the conditions for this transformation, we must operate complementary levers, each at the right time: the general states of food, the implementation of the proposals that will be adopted, the future common agricultural policy – CAP – which will have to be protective, facilitating, agile and more legible. At the service of this ambition, the draft budget for 2018 of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is up 1.5% in payment appropriations compared to 2017. This draft budget reflects and illustrates my three strategic priorities: training and innovation, the CAP and health security. With regard to training and innovation, not only did agricultural education enjoy a stable workforce, but its credits increased by almost 3%. This effort is a form of recognition of the contribution of agricultural education, which goes far beyond the training of future farmers and makes it possible to energize rural areas by training young people in the jobs of tomorrow. With regard to programme 149, which covers agricultural, agri-food, forestry, and now fisheries and aquaculture policies, my priority objective was to strengthen national counterparts for measures under the second pillar of the CAP. Overall, the resources allocated to the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps – ICHN –, agro-environmental and climate measures – MAEC –, aid for organic farming, installation and investment are stable in commitment authorisations and are experiencing a cyclical increase in payment appropriations in order to reduce the delays in CAP payments according to the announced schedule. The other appropriations under programme 149 help to strengthen public support for sectors and the functioning of markets: support for ultramarine production, through the strengthening of the resources allocated to the sugar cane sector, the Office for the Development of the Overseas Agricultural Economy – ODEADOM – or Guyana; support for the timber sector, through the fulfilment of the NFB's objective and performance contract commitments and a budget of €20.5 million in commitment authorizations to the Strategic Forest and Wood Fund; support for the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture, with a 1% increase in resources. In order to improve responsiveness in the event of a crisis, but also to strengthen the sincerity of initial budgeting, a contingency provision of EUR 300 million is created for the first time in programme 149. It will make it possible to finance unforeseen, unpredictable, economic, health and climate crises as well as refusals of community clearance. At the same time, the 149 programme no longer provides budgetary compensation for farmers' sickness contributions. The Government proposes to harmonize the scale of sickness contributions of farmers with that of other self-employed workers. The scheme thus provides for more sustainable funding and a progressive scale of sickness contributions, which is therefore fairer than the previous one. With regard to programme 206, which covers food safety and quality policy, the sharp increase in funding illustrates my third priority, that of improving food safety through increased funding for enhanced surveillance and prevention measures, which will take account of past crises. The budget associated with this programme is EUR 235 million, an increase of 12%, and is accompanied by a stabilisation of the staff dedicated to the implementation of this policy. Additional resources will continue and strengthen health controls and monitoring of health hazards. Finally, with respect to Program 215, note that the Department's operating capacity continues to decline. The downsizing of the Ministry, excluding education and health security, as well as operators, will represent an effort of less than 130 ETPT – full-time equivalents worked – thus contributing to the effort to control public spending. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this draft budget that is consistent with our ambitions for our agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u4	Mr Hervé Pellois, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor for agricultural, forestry, fisheries and aquaculture policies and agricultural and rural development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u5	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Émilie Cariou, Member of Parliament for the Meuse, with whom I had the pleasure of conducting the preparatory hearings for this sitting reserved for the agricultural budget. As you recalled, Minister, the 2018 budget for agriculture, food, forestry and rural affairs amounts to €5.2 billion, up 1.6% from 2017. In a context of reduced public spending, this increase is particularly welcome for an agricultural profession that is in doubt. Farmers are now experiencing a structural but also a worrying economic crisis. The decline in the competitiveness of agricultural holdings, the race for low prices, the lack of coordination in the sectors, the complexity of public intervention and the lack of convergence of standards between the Member States of the European Union only exacerbate these doubts, in a time when the common agricultural policy must be renegotiated without the presence of Great Britain. Stimulated by rapid technological developments, the rise of societal expectations and environmental issues, French agriculture has many assets to respond to these new challenges. The organisation of the general states of food and the announcement of a €5 billion investment plan for agriculture illustrate our political awareness and, first and foremost, that of the President of the Republic. The proposed recognition of the "right to error" by the administration demonstrates the same concern. However, it will have to be scaled up at European level in order to fully apply to the agricultural world. Citizens are also ready to support the consumption of healthy, environmentally friendly food products and ensure a decent income for producers. The agriculture, food and forest budget for 2018 is therefore taking place in this complicated but hopeful context. This budget presents two innovations. The first is the creation of a special reserve of EUR 300 million to better deal with crises and refusals of Community clearance. The second is the link between fisheries and aquaculture and the agricultural budget. In the enlarged committee, Mr Minister, you made a commitment that fishermen should not be an adjustment variable in the Brexit negotiations. We will ensure that this commitment is fulfilled. I would also like to draw your attention to the need to strengthen the resources devoted to the development of our aquaculture. No aquaculture farms have been established in our country since 1996, when we have great assets in this sector. It is incomprehensible that a country like ours, facing the ocean, imports 86% of its aquatic needs. In addition to these innovations, the agricultural budget for 2018 provides for the maintenance of essential allocations, including support for the installation of young people, compensatory payments for natural handicaps and the resources allocated to the public forest. You are also planning, Mr Minister, to settle the delays in the payment of aid under the common agricultural policy once and for all. To this end, it is planned to double the payment appropriations for agri-environmental measures, to increase the subsidy paid to the Service and Payment Agency, and to hire 300 individual contractors in the departmental directorates of the territories. You have answered some of our questions in the enlarged committee. First of all, the EUR 300 million reserve created in this budget reflects your concern for budgetary sincerity. We have asked you that the sums concerned should not be given priority to the refusal of Community clearance, but rather to the management of possible crises. Organic agriculture is growing extremely dynamically. You have set a target of 8.5% of organic farming areas by 2020. I wonder about this modest ambition when some of our European partners, such as Germany and Spain, want to reach 20% of their agricultural area. Another uncertainty remains: will we be able to meet our budgetary commitments over the period 2018-2020? In response, we support the request for a report to give farmers visibility for 2019 and 2020 on agri-environmental and climate measures, compensatory payments for natural handicaps, and aid for organic farming. I will conclude with three brief questions. The EUR 5 billion multi-annual investment plan gives rise to real hopes in the agricultural world. What will be the sources of funding and the main actions? You have indicated your intention to "flatten" the entire agricultural tax system. What is your roadmap on this topic for the coming year? [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The appropriations for the common agricultural policy are twice as large as the national budgetary resources. How could France become a proposal force for the future CAP?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u6	Mrs Emilie Cariou, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor for agricultural, forestry, fisheries and aquaculture policies and agricultural and rural development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u7	Madam President, Minister, special rapporteurs and for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, Hervé Pellois, with whom I had the honour and the pleasure of working on the special report "Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Rural Affairs", presented to you the outline of our report and our main observations. Mr Minister, you have already answered a number of questions before the enlarged committee that took place last week. I will therefore concentrate on forest and forestry, as the timber sector represents the future for many of our rural territories and for France, since its resources only require more intensive exploitation. Moreover, this sector is fully part of a sustainable development policy, of which it will be an essential link. The "Forest" component of the draft budget for 2018 presents several elements to ensure its stability, as evidenced by the accounting elements presented in Action 26 "Sustainable forest management and development of the timber sector" of Programme 149 "Competitiveness and sustainability of agriculture, agri-food, forestry, fisheries and aquaculture". We remain at an overall budget of 242 million in commitment appropriations and above all 271 million in payment appropriations, which represents a slight decrease of less than 2% for payment appropriations, but state intervention in this sector is well guaranteed. It is clear that I invite everyone to vote on the budget allocated to this mission. However, I would like to take this opportunity to raise two issues at a time when we are rekindling the flame of private investment in our businesses. The first concerns the overall coordination of the forest sector, from producer to consumer. It was highlighted by the Court of Auditors in its November 2014 report on support for the timber sector, followed by two parliamentary reports. How can we, Mr Minister, ensure that French wood is processed and valued in our territory and in Europe, far from the low-end agglomerated wood, imported and so expensive in terms of its service life, that we can see in the chain panels in some large signs? I hope you will be able to bring your lights and reveal your projects to us to ensure the development of excellence in the wood industry. As was the case for food following the ambitious general states of food, we hope to see a renewed intelligent cross-cutting public policy to stimulate this sector, through the activation of financiers, such as Bpifrance or the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the mobilization of research and development – I am thinking of the actions carried out by the Commissariat à l'énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives, the CEA, at home, in the Meuse – or the accountability of distributors. My second question concerns private forests, on which, Minister, you have already spoken in an enlarged committee. What budgetary and legal levers will be used by your services in the coming months to improve the productivity of private parcels? Simple management plans are an interesting legal tool, but we probably need to go further in regulation. Other forest-related issues will come in 2018, including the renewal of the forest investment tax incentive – DEFI forest. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Minister, you can count on our support to consolidate the forestry sector and boost its share in job creation in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u8	Mr Michel Lauzzana, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, on food security, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u9	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Food Branch is piloting the 206 "Health Safety and Quality of Food" program within the "Agriculture, Food, Forest, and Rural Affairs" mission. The budget for this programme, at EUR 553 million, is relatively low compared to the others. Yet the issue of food security has a strong impact on the population and a wide media coverage. The French are traditionally very attached to the symbolic function of food and food. They see more and more drug virtues to food. Their sensitivity to health problems increases as health crises – mad cow, avian flu, eggs contaminated with fipronil, glyphosate, endocrine disruptors – the list is long, we would become hypochondriac unless. Another topic has been emerging for some time and is featured in the media: animal welfare and especially the conditions of rearing and slaughtering. This subject, highlighted by the association L214, finds a growing echo in the population. He'll have to be thorough. Food security is also an important economic issue. The many sanitary and phytosanitary constraints imposed by importing countries are the main impediment to our food exports. The agri-food sector is in surplus of €6.1 billion, placing it third in France's trade surpluses. But be careful, we are regressing as we have moved in a few years from second to fifth among the world's exporters. The food security budget suffered a sharp cumulative decline to 32 per cent in 2016. This decrease was denounced by a report by the Court of Auditors and a Senate report in 2017 because of its detrimental nature to the proper implementation of the programme. 2017 saw a slight consolidation of this budget. For 2018, we welcome a strong increase from €510 million to €553 million, an increase of 9%, reaching 12.4% excluding staff costs. I am therefore a happy rapporteur: the increase is more than significant; It also reflects the Government's commitment to combat sub-budgetization. The budget for 2018 is therefore sincere. The first objective of this program is to: "Encourage the change of practices to preserve public health and the environment". The first indicator is the control of the use of pesticides and antibiotics. For antibiotics, the goal has been achieved as the use of antibiotics in livestock has declined sharply by 40% in five years – the decrease is more than 80% for antibiotics that cause antibiotic resistance. In the case of pesticides, i.e. plant protection products and biocides, the first Ecophyto plan did not achieve the objective. The Ecophyto 2 plan, covering the period 2016 to 2025, aims to reduce plant protection products by 50% by 2025, with a 25% level in 2020. Objective 3 of this programme aims to ensure the responsiveness and efficiency of the health control system. The National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour – ANSES – is the first operator of this 206 programme: it receives 84.5% of the funds allocated to operators. The second operator is FranceAgriMer, with 6.3% of the credits. The activity of ANSES will be affected by Brexit. The ANSES homologue in the United Kingdom deals with 40% of the technical dossiers for marketing authorisations in Europe requested by companies. Companies pay a tax that could abound the ANSES budget with own resources. The ceiling for this tax should be increased and recruitments should be made outside the employment ceiling to meet these new demands. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As for the compensation of farmers suffering from avian influenza, we can count on payments from European funds. Despite this, compensation for winter 2015-2016 losses, related to the discovery of outbreaks of avian influenza, was finally settled in September 2017. As for the 2016-17 losses, they were compensated for 50 per cent this summer, with the rest to be settled by the end of the year: it is still too long. Minister, I know that you are paying particular attention to these deadlines for compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u10	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u11	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the special rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, French agriculture is now in a difficult overall situation, but it is also faced with choices that can offer it much happier prospects. For this first budget, most intervention expenditure is on the rise. In 2018, funding for the "Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Rural Affairs" mission increased by 1.28%, with payment appropriations amounting to €3.43 billion. I have chosen to focus my report for an opinion on the financial situation of French farms in order to present an overview of the levers on which to act. Cash flows are very heterogeneous from one sector to another, but also within the same sector. It is striking to note, in the light of the many hearings I have conducted, that it is not so much the size or structure of farms, or the technicality of farmers, that are the main factors for improving the financial situation of farms. It is much more the entrepreneur's management capacity that promotes success. Training in agricultural matters must no doubt be adapted to this situation. The first phase of the general states of food has led to the conclusion that there is an urgent need to redistribute added value to producers, whatever the sector, in order to restore competitiveness to our agriculture. In order to achieve this objective, it is essential that all sectors take on their responsibilities and establish real sector contracts, adapted to their activities. It is essential to envisage a framework of promotions and an increase in the thresholds of resale at a loss, in order to stop the price war in the large distribution, which triggers the infernal spiral of value destruction. The second phase of the general states of food must lead to an evolution of the agricultural model taking into account consumer demand and societal expectations. It is imperative to leave the current agricultural system, which no longer allows producers to live on their work. Many measures have already been taken by producers to change their practices, but much remains to be done. Insurance mechanisms will have to be put in place to protect farmers from both climatic and economic hazards: a recast of crop insurance is needed; A truly efficient precautionary savings scheme, which corrects the shortcomings of the current system of tax deductions for investment (IPD) and hazards (DPA), will have to be adopted to enable farmers to deal with economic crises in a simple and pragmatic way. Our current tax system may, in fact, sometimes appear to be a driving force for farmers: in order to avoid excessive tax and social taxation, farmers are encouraged to invest more than necessary at the risk of falling into the spiral of over-indebtedness. A complete overhaul of this system is therefore necessary. The €5 billion investment plan announced by the President of the Republic in Rungis will also support this transition by facilitating the modernisation of farms without exposing them to over-indebtedness. At the same time, it is essential that farmers take as far as possible their independence from aid. Only more remunerative selling prices will allow them to do so. We will be able to achieve this within the framework of the negotiations on the future CAP that will begin, in which France will have to make its voice heard. The CAP aid system must be more legible, transparent and agile. More generally, a number of administrative constraints need to be removed in order to facilitate the day-to-day lives of managers. This will be the subject of the future bill on the right to error and administrative simplification, which will be discussed in the first quarter of 2018. We cannot deny the economic problems facing French agriculture. But it certainly has many advantages that are recognised by all consumers and that we need to make greater use of. All types of agriculture have their place in France: organic farming, short circuits, organized short circuits, red labels, protected designations of origin or exporting agriculture. All of them are forced to develop, each on its own production niche, in order to spread our agriculture at all levels: local, national and international. At the international level, a number of accompaniments need to be put in place in order to be more effective. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The announcements of the President of the Republic are in line with that. It is our duty as Members of the nation to accompany our agriculture so that it can regain its position as a leader at European level. That is why we will vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u12	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Yves Daniel, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u13	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the special rapporteurs, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget for agriculture, food, forestry and rural affairs must respond to two challenges: on the one hand, to draw up a credible roadmap in order to create a new agricultural model that will guarantee our food sovereignty tomorrow; on the other hand, to ensure that farmers can live with dignity from the fruits of their work. This second issue is intimately linked to the first: it is not tolerable that a third of farmers now earn less than 350 euros a month and that their income depends only on European aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u15	It is in this context and this spirit of collective responsibility that I am pleased to speak today on behalf of the Republic Group on this first finance bill of the legislature. This structuring text reflects the priorities of the presidential majority. It accompanies the transformation of our productive models in order to meet both the demands of the agricultural world, the food needs of our citizens, but also the European and global challenges. The debates are necessary for the preparation of the finance law, but not only. Discussions must take place everywhere, with the actors in the territories. We will only be able to change things if all the actors come together to write together a roadmap for the next few years. This work is under way with the general states of food. What are our challenges today? I shall mention only a few of them, which have been the same for forty years. The first concerns food sovereignty and the choice of our agricultural model. What accompanying tools should we put in place to meet the economic, food and ecological expectations of society and consumers? What is the role of farmers in the sector? This question has as its corollary the distribution of value added. How can we support changes in our agricultural model in order to improve the lives of farmers, preserve our agricultural social security system and ensure a decent income for those involved in agriculture? Finally, to guarantee income, prices must first be set on the basis of production costs. This is the guarantee of the remuneration of the work performed. It is essential that we collectively provide answers to these questions, which will enable us to build the new agricultural model. Several tracks were drawn by the President of the Republic in his address to the General Food States. A line and a project are beginning to emerge: we must protect our agronomic potential and preserve our competitiveness and our ability to export. Today, it is time to change course, but other budgets will be needed to meet the changing needs of the agricultural world and society as a whole. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, the legibility of the road map set out by the President of the Republic, and the ability of this budget to begin to meet the needs of transformation. I come back to four key points of this finance bill. In order to protect our farmers from structural crises, €5 billion is planned to accompany the process of agricultural transformation and allow investments to modernise our production tool. It is not a question of industrialization, but of ensuring that a human-sized agriculture, which protects the health of our planet, and therefore of the living, is strengthened. To address health and agricultural risks, €300 million has been provided. Training in agriculture is being strengthened, with a budget for education and research increasing by 2.9 per cent, in order to offer programmes tailored to the diversity needs of the agricultural sectors and the expectations of our society. Finally, EUR 38.4 million is intended to support the installation of young farmers. This funding will support the renewal of generations in agriculture. We must support this and put an end to the haemorrhage of farmers. One in two farmers is not replaced when they retire. Yet there will be no agriculture without farmers! [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] In five minutes, I tried to translate our vision to reinvent tomorrow's agriculture. This first budget is a first step towards the collective transformation of our agricultural model, but it will take a major adaptation of the next CAP if our agriculture is to carry out its tasks fully, first and foremost the protection of our health, which is our first wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u16	Mr Jérôme Nury, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u17	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 agriculture and food budget is part of a particular context that ultimately makes it tasteless. Not even a pinch of salt – strong measures or new budget lines – to raise a bit of a bland dish. It's just a waiting budget. It is in the context of the general statements of food, the conclusions of which will be reached at a later stage. They will, we all hope, lead to concrete legislative and regulatory measures to address the concerns of our farmers. You know that, Minister, the peasant world is suffering. In our countryside, farmers do not have the morale because, for too long, they have had to deal with a succession of crises. Cash flow is exsanguous, paperwork and ubiquitous controls, while we are constantly being told about simplification. For a silo installed not quite in the right place, for a few centimetres of culture located too close to a stream, for an over-approximate CAP declaration, administration adds it, sends recommended, calls, threats – in short, too often, seeks to accuse rather than understand or accompany. Our farmers do not have the morale, either, because they are not able to bear the burdens of the farms or to pay themselves decently. For decades, they have been asked to adapt, to change practices, to take account of the environment, to be competitive, to focus their work on quality. They do it every day. But how can we continue to raise the challenge without the prices that pay for work and investment? Between the hammer of the large distribution and the avil of the transformation, they are crushed and crushed. It is therefore a priority to restore oxygen to them by rebalancing the power ratios in the channels. These are the objectives of the general statements and we can only endorse them. These general states have given rise to great hopes. Above all, we must not disappoint farmers. To return to the budget for 2018, we can welcome its overall increase of 1.2% in payment appropriations compared to 2017. This is a positive point which also takes into account the catching-up of intolerable problems in previous years with late payments. It should also be stressed that the appropriations for young farmers have been increased. Remaining mobilized on the renewal of generations is essential, but, as you know, the real way to encourage the transmission and installation of young people is to give them better prospects for paying for work well over 35 hours a week and a risk of debt of several hundred thousand euros. Mr Minister, despite the explanations you gave us at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I shall come back to two points. The first concerns the EUR 300 million fund under Action 27 of Programme 149. I understand that this reservation has a dual purpose: to manage the Community's clearance and the sanctions of the European Union; mobilising funds for possible crises. But will the total amount be sufficient? The first aim should not prevail over the second and it should not be left without means if an economic, climate or health crisis occurs. All the more so since, for the management of the unexpected, it would be desirable to put in place a genuine precautionary savings with tax deductions that are more useful and virtuous than those for the renewal of agricultural equipment. The second point, which is not without concern, concerns the appropriations allocated to compensation for natural handicaps. They are stable next year for the national side, but aren't we going to cicada and commit in advance, on this line as well as on agro-environmental and climate measures, and on organic agriculture, the Community envelope allocated until 2021? Nearly 85% of the European Agricultural Regional Development Fund dedicated to ICHN will be consumed. How will we pay these allowances in 2020, perhaps even in 2019, if we have consumed the entire European co-financing envelope? Especially since the revision of the map of disadvantaged areas, postponed to 2019, may also be problematic if the base is increased. As you know, Minister, the first review envisaged by previous governments was simply intolerable. It sometimes consisted, at home in Normandy, of removing areas of the Ornais bocage from the disadvantaged zone to the benefit of the plain of Caen. It is therefore necessary to review this draft map so that it is more fair and truly in line with our territories. I know you are committed to this issue and thank you for being vigilant. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, this budget for 2018 suggests some positive points, although many problems remain outstanding. As a good Norman, whom you understand as I do, I could say about him: "Pt' be good that yes. Well, maybe you're not. In good French, I would say that our group remains dubious and that, in the end, it is above all elsewhere and on non-budgetary measures that the Government is expected to take: the realization of the general states of food, the simplification of standards and the agricultural aspect of the major investment plan. On these three points, there is an urgent need for action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u18	The next speaker is Mr Nicolas Turquois, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u19	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's budgetary choices in agricultural matters are courageous in view of a particularly tense context, which requires us to be responsible but also to prepare for the future. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes the balance found, which allows us to meet the expectations of the sector, while controlling public expenditure. Indeed, this year's Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs Mission has an increase of some EUR 400 million, of which 300 is devoted to the establishment of a contingency provision to cover refusals to discharge the Community, but above all, I hope, to deal with the financing of possible climate and health crises. These have been particularly devastating in recent years. Climate crises have led many farms to suffer from drought or floods in 2016, which has divided their turnover by two. French agriculture lost EUR 5 billion. As for the health crises – due to ovine and avian bluetongue – they caused 1 billion euros in losses. In this regard, we welcome the fact that France has been able to regain its avian influenza-free status. That is why I welcome the choices made for the 206 programme, whose appropriations are increasing by 12%, and which aims to develop health control, a real guarantee of the quality of the products and the object of a legitimate expectation of our citizens. The controls ensured the quality of French eggs when the fipronil scandal broke out this summer. At the end of August, a monitoring and surveillance plan carried out more than 750 analyses. The data obtained were favourable, showing that there was no risk to public health. Today, thanks to this image of quality, the eggs of our breeders benefit from a better valuation. Furthermore, in view of the emotion generated by the announcement of transfers of CAP aid, I am pleased, on behalf of my group, that agro-environmental and climate measures, as well as aid for organic farming, are preserved to the tune of EUR 81 million in commitment authorisations, half of which are for organic farming. Above all, however, it is important that these obligations be settled on time and on time. Let us beware that the 300 contractors hired will make up for all the delays that have been accumulated for the past two years! During the work in committee, I asked you, Minister, about the decrease in the allocation of the Strategic Forest and Timber Fund. This decline may have been a cause for concern, as the sector is crucial not only in terms of biodiversity, renewable energy production and environmentally friendly materials, but also in terms of non-relocating jobs. You are committed to proposing the renewal of fiscal measures – including the DEFI forest – to promote investment and sustainable forest management. This is a very positive sign sent to the whole industry. DEFI is a particularly operational and simple mechanism for supporting forest investment. We will also propose amendments to support the sector by making it more efficient and by increasing the ceiling of the tax allocated to the Service and Payment Agency to support the Strategic Forest and Timber Fund. With regard to Program 215 on the budget dedicated to the staffing and operational means of the administration of the Ministry, I would like to recall the importance of the modernization of some of the Telepac-type computer tools. Faced with certain malfunctions, the investment must be up to the stakes with, I hope, a real analysis of user returns, before the large-scale development of a new tool. I'll be vigilant as a user! The year 2018 will also see concrete proposals from the food states. We hope that this budget, coupled with the implementation of the decisions taken within the framework of the EGAs, will allow farmers to finally live in dignity through the payment of fair prices. But beyond the issues related to remuneration, we also expect from these general statements action plans for the renewal of generations in agriculture, for the modernization of the production tool or for the reconciliation between economic productivity and the preservation of the environment. On these last two points, your announcements about the big investment plan are in the right direction. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Mr Minister, the concern of the agricultural world is great, as you know. It must find a concrete and strong response. This budget clearly contributes to this. Today we welcome the first stage of a new agricultural era. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u20	Thierry Benoit, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u21	My dear Minister, I am pleased to see you on this first budget. To get to the point, on a strictly financial level, you must be a satisfied Minister of Agriculture since your budget is increasing globally, which sends an encouraging signal to the agricultural world. You recalled the agricultural context, as did the rapporteurs, Mr Pellois and Mr Moreau, whom I listened carefully – not that the others were less interesting. The stakes are high. To succeed in the transformation of agriculture, the presence of all at your side will not be superfluous. You mentioned training. This is the first point I shall address, on the margins of the budget discussion. We need to train in tomorrow's trades. When we talk about agriculture, we finally talk about territories. The President of the Republic is very much accused of not paying sufficient attention or ignoring them. I am convinced that agriculture and the territories are one and that, in order to train tomorrow's farmers, it is essential to develop training, especially higher education, closer to the territories. In the coming weeks, your competence will lead you to arbitrate between all the proposals of agricultural schools and rural family homes. I have a thought about the one from Fougères, which I'm coming from and where you've been. The latter subjects to your sagacity the creation of a BTS of animal production. To strengthen the link between agriculture and the territories, I would like you to be sensitive to the question of higher education. I would like to draw your attention to another subject: with my colleagues in the Constructive Group, we discussed, during the discussion of the Social Security funding bill, the possibilities of stimulating the employability of the agricultural workforce. Why not exempt from employer contributions those among our farm friends who wish to hire on their farms? They can use a non-relocable population with a local workforce. Here again, it is a question of promoting agriculture in line with the territories. The third crucial point that I would like to address was mentioned earlier by our colleague from MODEM: farmers' income. In this House, we discussed last July – this was one of the first texts of the legislature – the moralization of public life. Now, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, there is certainly one subject that will have to be put on the top of the pile, that of the moralization of trade relations. Not that I have in my collimator purchasing plants and large distribution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u22	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u23	... but I am thinking very precisely of their role in determining farmers' income. In this respect, I, as a Breton Member, cannot help but mention the topical issue of the shortage of butter. It is in the western regions, particularly in Brittany, where milk is produced the most, that this shortage is greatest. All of this is because, in their commercial relations with processors, distributors, especially those in contact with the consumer, refuse to pass on price increases linked to the nature of the market, production costs, quality and food safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u24	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u25	Another subject that will have to be addressed in this Parliament, Minister: the trajectory of your predecessor, Stéphane Le Foll, in favour of agro-ecology, which makes it possible to reconcile the ecological and economic urgency, as Mr Moreau pointed out earlier. For our part, in the group Les Constructifs, we defend all agricultural models, short circuits, family farming, so-called "conventional" agriculture and even agro-industry, which aims to encourage export. When I talk about agriculture and the territories, minister, that echoes the territorial food projects that the state is launching. You want 100 in 2018 and 500 by 2020, and you're right. I think that on the scale of the living pools, of the production basins, we can encourage this proximity of the earth to the plate, not to say from the fork to the fork. Finally, I will mention the European subjects: the CAP, CETA – the global economic and trade agreement – and MERCOSUR – the common market of the South. I think that Parliament is very destitute on these issues, and that we should have precise debates and, above all, have tools to ensure that the trade talks conducted by Europe in the framework of CETA and MERCOSUR are carried out properly. [[Applause on the benches of the LC, REM and MODEM groups]] Minister, the Constructive Group will support your budget proposal, because it is the first in the legislature. We tell you that we want to work to restore real sovereignty to our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u26	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u27	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite us to have a comprehensive view of the role played by agriculture in France in 2018. Agriculture, the foundation of the economy, the guarantee of the quality of life and the "healthy eating and eating", the farmers, actors of the food independence of our country, also play a decisive role in the planning, maintenance of our territories and the preservation of our environment. The budget we are studying today must take into account all these specificities and allow France to maintain and value a line of excellence which binds, thanks to the work of its peasants, tradition and innovation. The first phase of the examination of this mission in an enlarged committee has been, I must admit, very enlightening, Mr Minister, thanks in particular to the answers you have kindly given to our questions; I want to thank you for that. In particular, I welcome the interest you have expressed in the specificities of the territories, especially those of the mountains, which must be recognised and defended in order to allow the diversity of our productions. I am thinking in particular of what has been said about the base of the compensation for natural handicap and the sensitive question of the proper management of the predator for the defense of agropastoralism, two subjects on which there are many expectations. Let me also refer to the general states of food. The Nouvelle Gauche group, which is committed to concertation and listening to the field, can only recall its interest in this process. However, beyond the exercise of consultation and communication, we invite you to take a lucid look at the situation and to make full use of existing and proven mechanisms – I am thinking in particular of the aid for the installation of young farmers and the regulatory support tools resulting from the Sapin 2 Act. We would benefit, Mr.Minister, from following in line with what was done during the previous quinquennium, which you are well placed to know: I want to mention, among other things, the law of the future for agriculture, food and the forest, carried by Stéphane Le Foll and Germinal Peiro, the mechanisms against food waste defended by Guillaume Garot, Dominique Potier's Ecophyto plan or the determined struggle of Delphine Batho against neonicotinoids. Our responsibility is to allow the development of tools, in particular by promoting their full inclusion by our farmers in the territories. In fact, I, like many other colleagues, have had the opportunity to organize meetings, within the framework of the general states, in my constituency, to play fully the game and to make contributions. If interests and expectations sometimes diverge, everyone agrees that regulation is essential and that current legislation would allow it. In fact, what our farmers are asking for is not a new law that, coming from the new world, will bring them to light. What they want is visibility, stability, pay for their work and effective enforcement of legislation. I would also like to express to you our group's regret at the decline in aid for farmers already engaged in agro-ecological activities and who would like to remain there. What a missed opportunity, colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u28	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u29	What do we believe here? That the transition to organic farming is decreed? What message do we want to send to the rural world? That you just have to commit to it to succeed? However, we are well aware that the requalification of an activity is a complicated process, which involves a strong investment and fine follow-up, the result of which is really acquired only after several years of work. By putting an end to this policy that we wanted to be proactive, you are sending a negative message to the farmers who have moved towards this virtuous but demanding mode of production, even though there is, as you said, a strong social demand. Why should the agricultural sector remain on the margins of our country's ecological transformation? On the other hand, your ministry is taking important action in European matters, and I have noted that you are referring a number of topics, which are essential, to the negotiation of the next common agricultural policy for 2020. You will allow me to highlight two of them that are of particular interest to us: on the one hand, the issue of precautionary savings and risk management, considered as a whole; on the other hand, the guidelines for ICHN. These are not, you will agree, small subjects. You will therefore understand that the national representation is asking you again, very precisely, about the control it should exercise over the course of future negotiations. What commitments are you prepared to make in front of the representatives we are?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u30	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u31	I thank all the colleagues who have spoken on the issue of the forest, and I fully share their concerns. What policy do you intend to take to reinvigorate this future-oriented sector? Do you agree with the recommendations of the Caullet report? In conclusion, I want to say that we take note of this transitional budget, which has its strengths and weaknesses, before examining more structural measures, which are expected next year, following the general statements. However, the crises and doubts faced by our farmers are there. The eyes of the countryside are turned to our assembly and the expectations, as we know, are strong. That is why it is for us, collectively, not to disappoint them. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on some benches of the REM and LC groups]] Minister, your answers to the questions that I have raised before you again are of crucial importance. We will remain very vigilant on these fundamental issues, and will stand by you to take any proactive steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u32	Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u33	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, of which I am a member, we have conducted a number of hearings on the general states of food. I would like to mention a particularly striking speech by the President of the National Livestock Confederation, who called for a "new social contract between farmers and society". I quote: "What do we expect? You want the competition, the New Zealand model? We'll do it. A family farm, close by, that integrates animal welfare? We'll do it. You want everything at once? It is up to the French, and to you, the politicians, to set a course. » This inquiry seemed very fair to me. What social contract do we want? What course do we set? What agriculture for what food? To this question, I, for my part, want to answer without bias. In the post-war period, the social contract was clear: it was about feeding the French, returning to food self-sufficiency, and eventually reducing prices. This has had the consequence of the agricultural revolution, the use of chemistry, the battery farms, which have now been pointed out but which, for our grandparents, have been a huge challenge. The field-released labour was absorbed by the industrial boom. It was La Montagne that Jean Ferrat sang: "They leave the country one by one, to go and earn their living, far from the land where they were born [...]". As early as the 1970s, the bet was won: self-sufficiency was achieved. We're even going beyond that, since the overstocks are accumulating. We start exporting, across Europe and then the world, and prices are falling. In the household budget, in half a century, the share of food is divided by two, from 35% to 16% today, thus being relegated to the housing budget. Where are we now? The movement continues, but I'd say it turns empty, purposeless. After the GATT agreements – the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade – the Uruguay Round, the World Trade Organization, came the time of CETA. I don't care what's going on. In 20 years, half of the farms have disappeared, even though the industry is no longer asking for arms in contrast to the 1970s. I would add that in 2016, half of the farmers earned less than 354 euros per month: the fall in prices leads to poverty. Finally, I will recall a sordid reality: a farmer in France commits suicide every two days. It is the result of an obvious social crisis, but also – they are linked, in my view – to an existential crisis. In this regard, the president of the Agricultural Social Mutuality stated: "There is a question in the countryside about the meaning of our profession: what are we here to do? Many of my colleagues ask me: do we really need us? Are we really used to feed the population? This doubt undermines men, as much as poverty: what is the use? What are they for? A feeling of unease – I would even say a sense of absurdity – wins the campaigns. In fact, what purpose is being proposed to farmers today? More exports? In opening the hearings, the chairman of the committee set this objective for the general states of food: "strengthening our agricultural power"; You mentioned it, Mr Minister, before the Committee on Economic Affairs. Others referred to France's "exporting mission", as we once talked about its civilizing mission – probably both are confused in certain minds. And for almost everyone, French agriculture must be made more competitive. "Competitiveness", this is the first word in the budget programme. In my view, this objective no longer needs to be; I think we're feeding an illusion here. Even if environmental standards, contributions, wages and French agriculture are lowered, it will no longer be competitive – it cannot compete with factory farms, giant farms, underpaid workers, be they Brazilian or Polish.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u34	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u35	I even consider that our agriculture must no longer be competitive. Should we set ourselves up to be competitive with underpaid workers or giant farms? That's the question I'm asking you, minister. I think that no one really wants to answer it in the affirmative, and yet that is probably what is likely to happen, because this direction has the strength of inertia and lobbies for it. However, a second path opens up to us: let's give up competition, let's prefer protection, let's give up globalized prices, let's choose regulated prices to build a clear social contract, with an agriculture that first assures our self-sufficiency, the concern to safeguard the environment, to be attentive to animal welfare, to offer a healthy diet, to make producers live with dignity. Let us not tell a story: this reorientation will not be easy. We do not claim that, in one turn, all farmers will move on to bio, agroecology, permaculture, as if by miracle. It'll take time. But the most important thing today is to offer a course. Ours is clear: we must change our model, break the path of decline, get agriculture out of globalization. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Didier Goubil, elected to the Finistère Chamber of Agriculture and president of the agriculture division, is a defender of the Breton productivist model. He told me about his father's torments when he began intensive breeding, his failures, his attempts, and it is understood that the son is economically, but also emotionally, attached to this path. I pointed out to him that what bothered me in his reasoning was that his father and his generation had invented a new system and had adapted to their time, whereas he only proposed to continue as before, as in the 1970s, but in a bigger way. He conceded to me that this was true and that I made him think. I hope to make you think too, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u36	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u37	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u38	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am a fan of the fork fork or of the ground on the plate and, frankly, Minister, I have sat down with a form of greed to discover your budget. However, I felt an anger back before I even entered the peasant inn, because of the CETA's action with Canada. Everyone knows here, and no one denies them, the consequences of this agreement on our agriculture, especially on livestock farming: we will be unfairly competed and find ourselves unprotected, so that the farmers in our country stand up against this trade agreement, which already undermines the success of the policy that you want to implement, Minister. Then I looked at the menu of the dishes, reviewed the various dishes. As a first step, I found some that could satisfy me, such as the slight increase – to €43.5 million – in the Mission's appropriations compared to the 2017 finance law, which is a significant element in view of the successive declines in recent years. These new appropriations mainly concern programme 206 on the safety and health quality of food. It is true that we have a positive point here, which will partly, but only partly, meet the needs for prevention and risk management that we have to face – and I have mentioned this in the enlarged committee. On the map, I noticed absences, dishes that were not there and that were expected. I'll mention two of them. The first is the overprime of the first fifty-two hectares, which has been a widely shared demand for years; its absence of budget lines creates dissatisfaction in small family farms. The second is the disengagement of aid for the maintenance of organic farming, given that the consumption of organic farming products has increased by 7.5% in one year: there is a real shortage. Let us come to the point of resistance of your policy, which you presented in an enlarged committee: "I want to repeat it: the lowest price is not the fairest price; The fairest price is that which pays all the links of the chain, starting with the producer, hence the need to rework the question of price construction from the cost of the farms. It's a whole machine to put back in place. It can be complex, but we can do it. » Let me tell you that, on this point, I am not following you. I would like to remind you of the remarks made by the deputy Jean Jaurès in 1894 at the address of one of your predecessors, Jules Méline. He said that the policy presented by Jules Méline in this House was an appearance and a sign that would hardly benefit farmers; He compared Jules Méline to the Roman emperor Heliogabal, who served some guests very fine dishes which were in fact only drawings showing the dishes on the menu, and each guest had to be happy. I fear, Mr Minister, that this will not be the feast to which the European Commission, you and the Government would invite the French peasantry. I'm really afraid there's a lot, a lot of disappointments after the ads you've made. Again, it is necessary to go from saying to doing, to keeping the meeting of proclamation and act. Now, many things are missing in your budget, and what emerges from the consumption that I have been able to make of it is that we are certainly in a peasant inn, but that, under this pinnacle, a small sign indicates "bourgeois cuisine". Your choices are in fact extremely liberal, as my colleague Ruffin has just pointed out, and you are obsessed with competitiveness. If this is the way you want to start all of our agriculture, we will not get away with it. In the end, however, our group will abstain from this budget, hoping that it will not consecrate your political impotence. I wish I had not to see in the coming years that I had not escaped what Aimé Césaire called: "The curse [...] to be the deceit in good faith of a collective hypocrisy [...]".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u39	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Graziella Melchior, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u40	Minister, Finistère is known for its agriculture, but it is also the first department for fisheries, an area that should not be forgotten. With 48500 tonnes landed, 2500 direct jobs and 11,000 jobs generated, the fisheries sector is an essential link in the Finistère economy. Today, this sector is doing pretty well. However, two dangers threaten him: Brexit, which risks amputating part of our fishing areas and, just as alarmingly, the aging of the fleet. The average age of the 1300 Breton fishing vessels is 27 years, with the national average reaching 29 years. Two-thirds of the fleet will be renewed in the next ten years. This is crucial for three reasons. First of all, for safety, sailors must be protected when they sail, which requires on-board technology and specific equipment. Secondly, for the environment, fisheries must be sustainable and vessels must be more and more respectful of the marine environment. Finally, for profitability, ships must be better armed and more fuel efficient, in order to achieve better management results. When the fleet is renewed, when fishermen's bosses and sailors sail safely, the entire fishing industry will take off. It is shipowners, marine carpenters, fishermen, fishers and others who will be employed. All this has a cost, but it is when the wind blows that we must invest. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] What are you going to do, Minister, not to leave the fishing industry at dockside?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u41	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u42	Thank you, honourable Member, for your essential question on the renewal of the fishing fleet. This issue is of concern to many fishermen, mainly those engaged in inshore and artisanal fishing. We know that the average age of ships can jeopardize the safety of our sailors. The renewal of the fishing fleet is one of the main issues on which we need to work, particularly with a view to competitiveness – for my part, I believe that this term is not a big word. We need a competitive fishing industry, and I know that, as a Member of Parliament for Finistère, you are very strongly committed to this issue. I had the opportunity to present our vision and our project to the professionals of the industry during the sea and fishing meetings held in Quimper last September. As you know, given the European legal framework, the renewal of the fleet cannot receive any public support. As you rightly point out, this is a very heavy investment, often out of reach for a single entrepreneur, an individual owner, an on-board shipowner. It is therefore necessary to look for financial porting solutions to accompany these shipowners. These solutions must be found by all professional actors, not by the State. This is the message of accountability that the President of the Republic sent to the representatives of the professionals, meeting on 11 October last in Rungis in the framework of the general states of food. I have therefore asked the fishing industry to draw up a sector plan, in which the question of renewal of the fleet and of generations will have to occupy a central place. I will pay particular attention to the fact that, in the long run, we can find solutions to this issue together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u43	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet, the first speaker on questions from the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u44	Minister, section 42 of the 2018 Finance Bill provides for the elimination of the employment competitiveness tax credit, the CICE, in 2019. It will be replaced by a reduction in employers' social contributions. In the Social Security funding bill for 2018, this reduction will take the form of a six-point reduction in employers' social contributions for health insurance, for remunerations below 2.5 SMIC, and a stronger reduction in employers' social contributions, for remunerations below 1.6 SMIC. However, no mention is made of the specific nature of the employment of casual agricultural workers, whose employer's exemption – known as the exemption of casual workers and job seekers in agriculture, TO-DE – is of paramount importance for farms, which employ many seasonal workers. Of the 29500 agricultural workers in Vaucluse, 24000 are seasonal, in this department where agriculture represents the first source of wealth, with a turnover of 1 billion euros. In areas where cultivation is particularly marked by the seasonality of production, such as viticulture during harvests or arboriculture with, for example, the harvest of cherries, the exemption for casual workers is vital. It is not uncommon for seasonal workers to account for more than 90% of the total wage bill. Similarly, we risk seeing, without this exemption, a large number of farmers resort to temporary labour companies, which hire foreign labour, at a much lower cost. This is also dramatic in departments that are hit hard by unemployment. It is therefore essential for the survival and maintenance of local employment in agriculture. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Is the maintenance of the exemption for casual workers threatened by the entry into force of the reduction in employer social contributions provided for in the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u45	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u46	Mr President, labour costs are a key factor in competitiveness in agriculture, both in production and in processing. The 2018 Finance Bill maintains the targeted social security exemption scheme for people who employ seasonal workers in agriculture. As you recalled, the Government has planned to transform the CICE into a reduction in additional social contributions from 2019 onwards. This transformation will provide an increased competitive advantage for the agricultural sector and agricultural employment. First, the reduction in the cost of work will be immediate for the employer, who will not have to wait until the following year to see a reduction in his tax or even a refund. Secondly, certain sectors of agricultural employment, which are not currently covered by the CICE, such as employment in cooperatives, will benefit fully from a greatly increased reduction in social charges. The year 2018 will allow the analysis of each specific scheme, such as that of seasonal agricultural workers, to ensure the overall coherence of the reform of the CICE. The aim is to ensure the best possible competitiveness of agricultural employment by erasing virtually all the employer's wage costs for the most numerous SMIC salaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u47	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u48	Minister, I would like to reiterate the concerns expressed by our group's spokesman, Jérôme Nury, about the financing of ICHN. They come from the agricultural world concerned by this very important aid; the president of ANEM, the National Association of Mountain Elected Persons, here presents, and the secretary general that I am sharing them. I would add that we are wondering about the loss of identity of this compensation. I would also like to raise the issue of land, Minister. You wanted to rename the 149 programme by introducing the concept of competitiveness. The first condition for the competitiveness of an agricultural enterprise is, of course, the control and visibility it can have on its land. Concerns in this area also concern the consumption of land, even though the concept of preservation has been introduced with the new name CDPENAF – the departmental commission for the preservation of natural, agricultural and forestry areas. Farmers are also concerned about developments in the field of recovery of family property and changes in structural control policies. Because a number of concerns relate to land, a large union advocates a specific law on the subject. I would like you to give us your feeling on this proposal, minister. And since I have referred to the mountain, I would remind you that these territories, which are breeding grounds, agricultural land, must have a specific interlocutor within your ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u49	It's very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This was the case under the previous legislature. I would like to reiterate this instant request: we need to know who we should contact in your ministry for all questions related to mountain farming.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u53	As you pointed out, today there are many issues related to land: the establishment of young people, the competitiveness and development of agricultural enterprises, and the prevention of land grabbing. The future law for agriculture, food and forestry adopted in 2014 had led to a number of reforms in the management of agricultural land. The current situation is very marked by an increase in the concentration of agricultural holdings through companies. We must therefore reflect on the subject. A report from the General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas, the CGAAER, on the evaluation of this phenomenon and on the adequacy of regulatory tools must be submitted before the end of the year. In the meantime, we must ask ourselves about this issue of land distribution, and not just within the SAFER perimeter – land development and rural settlement companies – because it is a major issue for competitiveness, installation and transmission to young farmers. I cannot say at this stage that a text will only deal with this subject, but some of these issues will be dealt with, along with others, in the coming months. I know that we have to think about this together with the territories. You asked me in particular about the mountain territories, and first of all about the ICHN. I would like to remind you of what I said in the enlarged committee and at the top of the farm in Cournon-d'Auvergne: the mountain remains a priority in the financing of this allowance, which is very important to me. As for the interlocutors within the ministry, the first is the minister who is before you today. I can also count on a number of collaborators who will be able to respond to all the elected representatives of the mountain, in particular Mr Olivier Cunin, a member of the cabinet, who has perfect control of these subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u55	Mrs Geraldine Bannier, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u56	Minister, the farmers in my department, Mayenne, and beyond, from all over France, are very worried. The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada entered into force on September 21. Its ratification by our Parliament is, however, postponed to the Greek calendia, in the second half of 2018, after the establishment of a monitoring and control committee, which was quickly set up to reassure but which may seem illusory and anachronistic. This is reflected in the Schubert report: the CETA agreement does not give priority to concerns relating to the protection of the environment and health. It is well known that in Europe health control covers all stages of the food chain, where the North American concept favours decontamination treatment at a given stage of production. Despite the fact that, in the immediate future, Canadians must put in place a non-hormone and antibiotic-free industry, which was previously non-existent, it is still unfair competition that is expected in the long run with a 30% lower production cost that will further weaken or even eliminate an already exsanguated industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u58	This agreement cannot meet consumers' expectations for food safety. We are told about a plan for better labelling, but despite the law in force since 1 January last, we can still read on ham trays of a large French brand: "Made in France, with pork meat of origin France and/ or Spain and/ or Portugal. » [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Therefore, will we continue to sacrifice local production lines for the benefit of free trade agreements of the type CETA and MERCOSUR, which, of course, open the markets, and this is the case for wines, spirits, and forty-one of our IGPs, but threaten our landscapes, our farmers and the commitment of this majority to healthy and nearby food?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u59	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u60	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u61	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u62	Madam Member, you are right about labelling. A volunteer-based experiment has been launched since 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u63	You don't have to volunteer!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u64	We need an obligation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u65	You can of course count on me to ensure that, from 1 January 2018, this experiment is maintained and that we go further, because there is a real need for transparency and information for consumers. To return to the subject of your question, it is essential today that the current trade negotiations on CETA and MERCOSUR maintain a very strong balance between openness and protection, and that these mechanisms be based on a principle of reciprocity that allows us to fully take into account our health, environmental and social requirements. For my part, I will scrupulously ensure that this is the case. For sensitive sectors, quota proposals must be within the limits of an overall envelope corresponding to the level of sustainable opening for our sectors. Here too, we will be very vigilant. As you indicated, the Government has put in place an action plan to ensure exemplary implementation of CETA and to strengthen our environmental and health ambitions. A commission of independent experts, mandated to analyse the impact of CETA on the environment, climate and health, will make a number of work. In order to provide a concrete and operational response to the issues identified in the report, the Government is putting in place an action plan with a threefold objective. It is necessary to ensure exemplary implementation of CETA with strengthened controls, compliance with sanitary and phytosanitary standards, compliance with environmental, national and European standards, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u66	It won't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u67	... and to improve the integration of health and sustainable development issues into future trade agreements. We also call for compliance with the Paris Agreement to be an absolutely essential clause for all future agreements: there must be no unfair competition. President Juncker has spoken of reciprocity, and we will be very vigilant on this point so that the expectations of the action plan that we have implemented are respected. We will keep you informed regularly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u68	It can't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u69	Mrs Lise Magnier spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u70	Mr.Minister, you announced last Tuesday the first payment of the 2017 repayable cash flow and the processing during this November of payments for the 2015 MAEC campaign and aid to organic farming, and we are pleased to hear that. It was incomprehensible that farmers suffer from the shortcomings of the state. However, Minister, can you make the commitment today, before us, that this will not happen again? You are aware of the disastrous consequences this may have had on a number of fragile farms. Despite this effort, you cannot hide the fact that you are reducing the number of officers in your department. While it is more than necessary for the administration to fulfil its role of accompaniment and advice, rather than simply imposing sanctions, and finally recognizing the right to error, particularly in the context of CAP files, can you assure us that your department's staff will be better trained in this much-needed advisory role? Finally, we all share, including farmers, the concern for more rational and sustainable agriculture, but today too many standards, too many rules force our farmers. I will give you one example. In my constituency, the Marne, a farmer raised chickens and cultivated cereals. This management of its exploitation therefore constitutes a virtuous circle, one feeding the other. He considered moving his chickens into organic farming, but he would then have been forced to buy new, certainly chemical, inputs for his fields, since he would not have been allowed to use the dejections of his organic chickens to fertilize his non-organic fields. He has, therefore, given up. Is there not there a real concern, Minister, about the freedom to engage farmers who, every day, are committed to a more sustainable and reasoned agriculture? Do you intend, during 2018, to simplify the rules and standards to really accompany the farm France in its third agricultural revolution?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u71	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u72	Madam Member, the delays in the payment of CAP aid are gradually being reduced, as you have seen. First pillar aid 2015 and 2016 is paid, ICHN 2016 was paid in July 2017. First pillar aid and ICHN 2017 will be paid in February 2018. The payment of the MAECs and aid for organic farming for the 2015 marketing year will start this month in November 2017. The 2016 campaign will be paid from March 2018, and the 2017 campaign from July 2018. This calendar, which was published last June, is now being kept, and will be kept. The Government's goal is to return to a normal calendar from the 2018 campaign. Advances for goat and sheep assistance were paid on 16 October last year, according to the usual timetable, reflecting a gradual recalibration and the Government's compliance with the announced timetable. Without waiting for the payment of CAP aid, the State has put in place a repayable cash contribution, an ATR. For 2017, the bulk of this ATR was paid on 16 October for an amount of €6.3 billion; This is the largest payment the Ministry of Agriculture has ever made in this area. The ASP, the Service and Payment Agency, will benefit in 2018 from an exceptional investment allocation of 30 million euros – it is included in the budget – to meet the IT needs, in addition to the exceptional effort we have wanted to make. On the other hand, the number of jobs has not declined: we are adding more than 300 ETPTs to the 350 ETPTs planned to ensure that all cases are properly dealt with throughout the year. The payment appropriations for the 149 CAP programme are up €110 million compared to 2017, which will cover all the costs associated with catching up. As regards the last element of your question, we do not oppose agricultural models to each other, and we intend, of course, to accompany producers who wish to diversify their type of production, their agronomic model. Here, too, the State, the Government, remain attentive to farmers so that, while respecting the objective of reducing the use of inputs, we can ensure the continuity of our agriculture and enhance the image of the farm France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u73	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u74	Mr Minister, I would like to stress, after Mr Bouchet, the consequences of the transformation of the CICE on casual workers seeking employment in seasonal work, hoping to obtain a more so-called answer and guarantees for the agricultural world. The cost of labour is a key issue in agriculture, particularly for certain highly employing labour products such as fruit and vegetable crops and horticulture, which have been experiencing a loss of competitiveness compared to their European competitors for the past ten years. According to a study by the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs on competitiveness gaps in the agricultural sector in Europe, carried out in August 2015, there are significant differences in labour costs. For example, the hourly cost of a seasonal worker in France is €11.69 compared to €7.60 on an Italian farm. In the face of this reality, a targeted scheme for the exemption of specific social contributions to agriculture, TO-DE, has been introduced and strengthened over the years in order to limit the effects of this distortion of competition. It supplements the general scheme applicable to employees employed in CDI. These two schemes for the exemption of employers' contributions have been supplemented by the CICE, whose current rate is 7%. As a result, the total reduction in the cost of work for an employer of seasonal employees is currently 40%. As of 1 January 2019, the Government plans to transform the CICE into a permanent reduction in social contributions of 10 percentage points in the form of an exemption from unemployment contributions and supplementary pension on the salaries equal to the SMIC. As it stands, the loss of the CICE suffered by employers eligible for the TO-DE scheme is not compensated. As a result, they suffer a dry loss corresponding to a 7% increase in labour costs. I would therefore like to know, Minister, whether you intend to amend the exemption schedule for the TO-DE scheme so that the removal of the CICE is neutral for our operators, who shape our territories and work for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u76	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u77	In addition to the reply I made earlier to Mr Bouchet, who also asked me about the future of this exemption, which the PLFSS 2018 provides for the amendment, I would say that 2018 will be an opportunity to analyse all the specific arrangements, including that applicable to seasonal agricultural workers, in order to ensure the overall cohesion of the reform of the CICE. The aim is to ensure the best possible competitiveness of agricultural employment by erasing virtually all wage burdens on SMIC-equal wages. Sector plans are being developed under the responsibility of interprofessionals. They will be delivered on December 10th. We will then examine all the requests made by each channel. These plans can usefully examine all aspects of the competitiveness of the sectors, in particular fruit, vegetables and viticulture, which employ seasonal workers. I refer you to the answer I sent earlier to Member Bouchet to complete this information, Mr Bricout. We are, of course, listening to you and at your disposal to discuss this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u78	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u79	Minister, I would like to ask you about the review of simple disadvantaged areas – ZDS. As you know, it is a major concern for farmers and can have a very negative impact on areas where livestock farming is a significant activity. Since autumn 2016, numerous meetings with agricultural professional organisations have taken place to determine national criteria defining areas subject to specific constraints with a view to including municipalities excluded from them because of the application of the biophysical criteria defined at European level. In April 2017, your predecessor, Stéphane Le Foll, presented a new ZDS map supplemented by three criteria relating to forage autonomy, polyculture-breeding and agricultural abandonment, and declined in two versions with or without cereal yields. In order to ensure the consistency of this new zoning, a strictly regulated principle of territorial continuity should be included, allowing the classification of small land-locked areas in or adjacent to classified areas. Minister, during the review of the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission in committee, you announced the relaunch of work on zoning with a view to forwarding a new map to the European Commission by next spring. Will you leave the two maps presented by your predecessor by continuing the work undertaken, in particular on the notion of territorial continuity? What criteria will you consider as a priority? I am a Member of Parliament during the previous parliamentary term and I know how difficult it is to achieve a balanced and just zoning in a constrained budgetary context. Beyond drawing up a simple map, my question also gives you the opportunity to clarify your position on the broader issue of compensation for handicaps in agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u80	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u81	The zoning of simple disadvantaged areas – which are not in mountain areas – that could benefit from ICHN had to be reviewed. The previous government has developed zoning assumptions that lead to significant additional costs for the State and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development – EAFRD. We must continue to reflect on the needs of fragile areas, such as the budgetary possibilities, both national and Community. Thus, we have obtained the postponement to 2019 of the revision of the zoning applicable to ICHN, as the "omnibus" regulation allows. In the coming weeks, I will relaunch the work on the ZDS so that we can transmit a new zoning to the European Commission as early as spring 2018. I will not fail to involve all parliamentarians, because this is a strategic task for our territories. This is about putting the town hall back in the middle of the village, as they say. We have sometimes seen, on Norman territory, for example, some defects to which Mr Nury referred earlier. We need to work on their correction. I hope, however, that the zoning review will be part of a sustainable budget, because any increase in expenditure would require a further transfer from the first pillar to the second, which I refuse to accept. We therefore want to make progress on the basis of a constant model while reviewing all the perimeters. I know that some Members, on every bench in this House, want us to work on zoning. Of course, we will not be able to access all requests. A zoning must be achieved which cannot be the subject of particular disputes, unlike the current one, i.e. a fair zoning which really takes into account the difficulties of certain territories. I therefore reiterate my earlier commitment to Mrs Genevard to ensure that all mountain areas remain beneficiaries of the ICHN. This is my priority. For the rest, let's work together on the ZDS.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u83	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u84	I call the credits of the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission, listed in state B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 325.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u85	It is a continuation of what I have said in the rostrum. Farmers are asking us to set a clear course. We propose one: to aim for food self-sufficiency with quality food, guaranteeing in particular animal welfare and the preservation of the environment, and to break with the choice of export. In this context, our amendment proposes to transfer some of the appropriations devoted to export promotion to the financing of another agricultural model based on peasant agriculture, in particular pastoralism. Similarly, we are making the choice of reducing the appropriations devoted to the modernization of agriculture in favour of the maintenance of peasant agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u86	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u87	The Finance Committee did not consider this amendment proposing the creation of a new "For peasant agriculture" programme within the mission. If it benefited from the ecological transition, it would sacrifice resources dedicated to the modernization of agriculture and the promotion of its products in international markets, which may not be the time. Our agriculture suffers a lot on international markets because of the difficulties it has been experiencing for two or three years. France has no interest in losing its place in it, both for commodities and for products developed or with high added value.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u88	Of course! This is not the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u89	Taking in the pocket of some to fill that of others does not seem to me to be a good solution. I am therefore against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u90	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u91	The funding under the 149 programme for 2018 reinforces the measures taken for the ecological transition and support for agriculture in difficult areas, notably through the maintenance of a budget for ICHN of €264 million, which makes it possible to mobilise a budget of €1.056 billion from the State and the EAFRD and a further €81.4 million for agri-environmental and climate measures and aid for organic farming. In the period 2014-2020, therefore, the budget allocated to these measures was threefold higher than the previous programming. For example, funding for the development of pastoralism and the prevention of wolf attacks is increasing to EUR 16.3 million. As the Special Rapporteur has pointed out at the moment, it is only possible to increase them further to the detriment of other such important actions, such as the modernisation of farms, the adaptation of the sectors or support for the overseas regions. I can therefore only deliver an opinion which is unfavourable to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u92	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u93	I want to tell you, minister, the fear that I have of seeing the general states of food lead to a pâté d'alouette: a large financial mass devoted to a clear orientation towards productive agriculture and a small amount of aid to alternative agriculture, which will allow us to say that everyone is satisfied. I am equally concerned about your answer, because the respective financial masses you refer to are not comparable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u94	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 402.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u95	This amendment is part of the statement made by Mrs Dubie, whom I thank, on the ICHN. These are covered by indicator 2.2 of programme 149, which measures the proportion of its beneficiaries, which the Government proposes to increase from 28.47 per cent to 28.50 per cent, which implies that the number of beneficiaries should not be reduced. However, the delineation of simple disadvantaged areas currently planned reduces the number of beneficiaries of ICHN. I wonder how we can achieve the objective in this way! This amendment proposes to shift certain appropriations in order to achieve this objective. I hear the Special Rapporteur say that it amounts to taking it from Peter's pocket to fill Jacques' pocket. As parliamentarians do not have the opportunity to increase budgetary appropriations, they must be taken in a pocket, and that is how this amendment is built. But if the minister raises the pledge, the problem will no longer arise and we will no longer have to take it in a pocket to feed the ICHN's. However, I would like to stress this point, Mr Minister, because the first maps of the simple disadvantaged areas provided to us are scandalous. Some of them are based on false data.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u96	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u97	You know that, and the services of your ministry as well. However, they refused to take corrected data into account! You know the intellectual honesty of INRA researchers: when there were computational errors, they sent you new data. Your department refused to integrate them. That is why I am defending this amendment today, and ask you to give us a pledge. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] I would also like to point out in this Chamber that I brought the matter before the Council of State against your ministry – you were not a minister at the time. It is scandalous to base a breakdown of simple disadvantaged areas on incorrect data.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u100	The committee has not considered this amendment, which aims to increase by EUR 50 million the state appropriations allocated to compensatory natural disability allowances, currently EUR 264 million, with a view to revising the map of disadvantaged areas. This is an understandable proposal, given the importance of this tool for these areas, but it seems preferable to wait until the results of the mapping work are known. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u102	Madam Member, you are very familiar with these matters. The aim of the reform is to comply with Community obligations and to review obsolete zoning, since it is forty years old. In the framework of the draft European omnibus regulation, we wanted to benefit from a period of renegotiation of the map and of the whole zoning. If the first version, presented by the previous government, showed a net increase in the number of beneficiaries, we believe that the work has not been completed. We will therefore use this additional time to redefine the map and adjust it as best we can, in the interests of the territories. The parliamentarians concerned are involved in this work and I remain at your disposal for us to work together. As it stands, it is impossible to draw definitive conclusions on the financial needs that might emerge from this reform. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u103	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u104	Thank you, Minister, for this lighting. I hear your willingness to involve parliamentarians, so that we can go out from the top. ICHN is a very powerful tool, especially in hillside areas. Only the breeding of cows and sheep is possible on heavily steep terrain. It is very important that these territories continue to benefit from the ICHN, otherwise it will be the end of the breeding process. We will then end up with brush, and the risk of more serious fires, which is not at all in France's interest – I am not just talking about my territory. Of course, we can't change payment credits for 2018 if we don't know the zoning. But perhaps the Government, in its wisdom, could consider authorizations for engagement? This would give a perspective that would go beyond 2018. I will withdraw this amendment. The minister has given assurances: I hope that we have made progress on this issue by the spring of 2018 and that the department will be able to integrate the corrected data. Because making cards on false data is abracadabrantesque!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u106	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 368.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u107	Minister, I welcome these comments, which reinforce the financing of ICHNs in mountain areas. This amendment, on the other hand, expresses regret and aims to restore aid for the maintenance of organic farming in 2018. In 2014-15, the programming of rural development programmes was carried out in cooperation with the agricultural profession, the Regional Directorates of Food, Agriculture and Forestry, DRAAF, and the regions, for an EAFRD 2014-2020 programming. Organic farming was then part of the national programming framework. By unilaterally withdrawing aid for the maintenance of organic farming in the middle of programming, the State challenges the economic model of farmers who have committed themselves with a 10-year visibility on conversion and maintenance aid. While one may wonder about the relevance of financing the maintenance of organic farming, for the very survival of the farms that have built their economic model on this resource, it is risky to abruptly eliminate it without anticipation. In addition, to refer to the regions the co-financing of these aids, while we are all aware of the budgetary constraints on these communities, undermines the relationship of confidence which must be established between the State and the regions in agricultural matters. In Auvergne Rhône-Alpes, the loss until 2020 of the State's contribution to maintaining organic farming amounts to €6 million. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The question of the legitimacy of maintenance aid must arise, but for the next programming. Until then, the aim of this amendment is to maintain staffing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u108	Good intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u109	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u110	The committee did not consider this amendment. The abolition of maintenance aid from 2018 did indeed surprise. However, the sector is driven by market dynamics and the state, far from disinteresting itself in organic farming, has maintained the conversion aid – an essential aid, which allows farmers to pass this difficult course over a five-year period – and has sustained the tax credit, which is particularly useful for small producers, to the tune of 4000 euros per farm. Finally, it should not be forgotten that organic farmers receive the traditional aid granted to all forms of agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u111	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u112	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u114	The Special Rapporteur said what was essential; I will try to express the rest. We are focusing our efforts on organic farming because the social demand is very strong. The State will honour its commitments on maintenance aid, as will all previous commitments on this subject. But today, if we focus most of our efforts on conversion aid, it is because we want more farmers to convert. We are also strengthening the tax credit so that its effect is more structuring for those who have chosen organic. But there is also the market, and the fact that supply meets demand today. It is therefore questionable whether it is still appropriate to offer maintenance aid in certain sectors of the organic sector, which have taken up their cruising speed or are experiencing exponential growth, and whether it would be more appropriate to direct these funds towards sectors which require more support. Through various schemes, we want to achieve our objectives in organic farming: to increase the share of organic farming products or short circuits in collective restoration by 2022 to 50%; increase the share of bio in arable land from 6% to 8% or more. The regions are important interlocutors; We agreed on the scope of action at a first state-region committee. It is not up to me to indicate how the regions should use the money allocated to them, but I know that a number of them are well ahead of the mobilisation of their funds in organic farming. It is a bet that we are working together to ensure that organic farming remains a driving force for our economy. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u115	Mr Yves Daniel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u116	As a organic farmer, I appreciate the importance of these decisions. In a context where all demand that farmers' incomes depend on the sale, therefore, of agricultural products, the aim here is to ensure that farmers do not derive their income solely from aid and subsidies. However, account must be taken of the wide variety of situations and income disparities in the organic sector. It is desirable to strengthen conversion aid in order to develop organic farming and to ensure that it is more and more responsive to growing consumer demand. However, care must be taken to ensure that there is no imbalance between supply and demand and that prices continue to be remunerative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u117	That's not the case at the moment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u118	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u119	In substance, Minister, we agree. But it is not responsible for changing the rules of the game in the programming environment, while farmers have committed themselves with visibility over seven years. I agree with you on the need to reflect on the relevance of maintenance aid, but I believe that it should be carried out for the next programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u120	I call Mr Max Mathiasin to support Amendment No. 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u121	This amendment aims to increase the appropriations of the Overseas Interministerial Council, the CIOM, which complement the financing of the POSEI Community Programme – a programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity. As the European Commission has recently pointed out, this is a particularly effective public policy, the aim of which is to restructure and develop diversification agriculture in the overseas departments, in order to reduce the share of imports. The aim of this appeal amendment is to underline the need to increase the CIOM's appropriations, in order to better accompany the increase in agricultural production, in line with the objectives set by the State. Mr Minister, in an enlarged committee, you announced your arrival in Guadeloupe and Martinique by the end of the year. This trip should allow you to take stock with local actors on various topics, such as chlordecone pollution, the difficulties encountered by fishermen and the credits I have just mentioned. I am prepared to withdraw my amendment if you confirm the support of the State and the willingness to grant local diversification production the necessary budgetary means, as well as your coming to our ultramarine lands, to hear farmers and fishermen, out of the disasters that have hit our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u123	This amendment has not been discussed by the Finance Committee. It aims to increase the appropriations allocated, within the framework of the Overseas Interministerial Council, to diversify agriculture in the overseas departments. This diversification is obviously a necessity, as I was able to see when I visited the overseas departments during a previous mandate and looked closely at the agricultural world. However, there are large differences between overseas countries. Between La Réunion and Mayotte, for example, it is the day and the night, both from the point of view of the support arrangements for agriculture as well as the practices of the farmers themselves – of which I would like to stress that they really take up their profession with arms-to-body. In La Réunion, for example, I was able to see that they had created quite remarkable channels to maintain their production and promote local consumption. Finally, I would like to point out that the 2018 budget takes into account the difficulties specific to certain sectors, such as sugar cane, which will see its budget increase by 10 million euros. I look forward to the Government's opinion, but, for my part, I express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, which you yourself presented as an appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u125	I confirm to you, honourable Member, that I will be on my way to our beautiful territories of Martinique and Guadeloupe by the end of November...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u126	You're lucky!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u127	... to work with you, both on the direct consequences of the hurricanes that hit your territories and, more generally, on overseas agriculture. It is very important, indeed, to take into account the specificities of ultramarine agriculture, which is also part of the image of our French agriculture. As far as your amendment is concerned, more than €350 million is allocated to support agriculture and forestry, and the budget allocated to overseas countries is increasing in 2018. Indeed, the historical envelopes, which are maintained, are in addition to the financing of the measures of the Guyana Plan, as well as the aid to the sugar cane sector, to compensate for the end of sugar quotas. Finally, the CIOM's appropriations, amounting to EUR 40 million, abound very positively, and significantly, the POSEI's Community appropriations. I therefore invite you, honourable Member, to withdraw your amendment. If you keep it, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u128	Mr Mathiasin, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u129	Mr Minister, in view of your response and your attention to the efforts currently being made to diversify agricultural activity in the overseas regions and to get out of traditional agriculture, which was essentially based on sugar cane and bananas, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u130	All right! It's constructive, as they say!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u131	Mr Louis Aliot has the floor to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u132	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our farmers are in great distress today and it is not normal for so many of them to give up this beautiful job, which is vital for all of us. It is even less normal for our farmers to commit suicide, because they see no light at the end of the tunnel they pass through. Beyond the difficulties of the trade, Minister, there are also financial and administrative questions, as illustrated by the following example. As part of the agro-environmental and climate project on the so-called "sexual confusion" process, many wine growers have entered into a three-year plan with administrations for the years 2015 to 2017. They have just been told that they would not receive these aids, which puts them in great difficulty. So my question is simple: what are you going to do to solve this problem? The aim of this amendment is simply to double the appropriations which would allow these producers to benefit from this aid, like so many others from which they do not benefit today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u134	This amendment was not discussed in committee. It is true that the recent period has seen crises of all kinds affecting both livestock and crops. I am thinking in particular of the health crises that have affected poultry, but also of bluetongue – we can say that we have been spoiled on this side – or of the weather, since the frost that fell on the vines had dramatic consequences in 2017. The budget for 2018 provides for a new tool to manage crises, with the creation of a reserve of 300 million euros which will be allocated to the management of the various difficulties which, unfortunately, will not fail to arise. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u136	Mr President, there are already several mechanisms to help farmers cope with climatic, health and economic hazards. This is the case with crop insurance, the system of agricultural disasters, the funds for pooling health and environmental risks in agriculture, which are also supported by the public authorities, and the allocation for hazards. In order to prevent a major crisis, in this budget we wanted a contingency provision of EUR 300 million to be mobilised quickly. On this aspect of your amendment, therefore, I can only express an unfavourable opinion. On the other side of your question, which is not directly related to your amendment, I will check what you are saying, because I am not aware of this particular situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u137	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a point of method with regard to the amendment which has just been defended, because this is a case in point which we have met in several committees. It is often the case that the State or a ministry establishes a three-year agreement with certain operators or with certain peasants and calls it into question after one or two years. If there is a three-year agreement, there must be a signature from the Ministry of Budget – it will have to be verified. Otherwise, it's not a three-year convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u139	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 401.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u140	In the budget documents, you say, Minister: "The Farm Competitiveness and Adaptation Plan – CAPE – is a way to modernize the production system, to innovate, to combine economic and environmental performance, and to encourage the installation of new farmers. It is part of the strategic orientations shared by the upstream and downstream sectors. » "The 2015 and 2016 balance sheet reflects a sharp increase in public funds mobilised for a number of beneficiaries almost equivalent to previous years. This shows that there is a real mobilization. Finally: "Public policy guidelines, with equivalent financial amounts, should increase the value of the indicator as early as 2017. » We share these objectives with you, Minister, but if you want the funds allocated to the CAPC to account for 4% of all applicants for CAP aid, we must support these credits! Goals cannot be set without the means to achieve them. The aim of this amendment is therefore to move EUR 10 million towards the CAPE. You will tell me that I pledge it by taking credits on the mission "Direction and management of agricultural policies". That is true, but it is because, as parliamentarians, the Constitution prohibits us from doing otherwise. But if you raise the pledge, minister, we will no longer be obliged to take credit for another mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u142	Nor has this amendment been discussed by the Finance Committee. The CAPE is indeed an essential tool of our agro-ecological policy and we can only welcome the increase in its appropriations that took place previously...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u143	Previously, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u144	I don't deny it! You know that we also hope to increase the resources of the EAP through the announced multi-year investment plan, which will soon be implemented. I imagine that we did not want to anticipate these recommendations and that we will have great surprises in 2019 and 2020. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u146	After this beautiful teasing of the Special Rapporteur, I will, like him, deliver an unfavorable opinion. Of course, we take note of the efforts made by the previous Government to support the modernization of farms. It is quite obvious that we are not going back to these provisions – I believe that the Special Rapporteur and I had voted on them, and there is no question of denouncing us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u147	It wouldn't be the first time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u148	To step up the effort to modernise farms, the appropriations allocated to support investments in farms will increase by EUR 15 million compared to the multi-annual target of EUR 56 million, to the sum of EUR 71 million. What is important today is the reflection that we are going to undertake within the framework of the major investment plan. I would like to point out that Workshop 14 of the Food General States deals precisely with how we can support the effort to innovate and modernise farms and adapt the existing arrangements to the different types of structures. A part of the discussion also concerns the possible evolution of existing measures, the targeting and diversification of tools, and the development of new financial instruments that we could put in place. I suggest that we wait for the conclusions of the food states, and in particular of its workshop 14, which will certainly give us some avenues of work and a number of solutions. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u149	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u150	I hear what you say, minister, but you also know from experience, like me, that sometimes you have to force Bercy a little. With this amendment, we are just helping you to force Bercy's hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u152	Good luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u153	I therefore maintain this amendment, because if we want to give the CAPE every chance, with the objective that you have set and that we share, we also need the means to follow. Without means, I fear that the objectives of the CAPE will take a little water.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u154	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u155	I have sent you a letter concerning the purpose of this amendment, Minister. When honey fairs are organized in our territories by associations, they are keen to have honeys analysed so that no product that could pose a possible difficulty is offered for tasting. Previously, they could benefit from a grant of EUR 1000 to EUR 1500 under a European programme, which allowed them to pay for the veterinary laboratory carrying out these tests. However, you told me in your reply that the veterinary laboratories had not made sufficient use of this programme and that, therefore, the European partners had decided that it was no longer necessary. I fear, minister, that we will face a dilemma: either the voluntary associations that organise these honey fairs will be forced to pay money to pay for these analyses, or they will stop having them done. It would be scandalous if these analyses were not made: it is a matter of public health and the preservation of the safety of visitors who attend these fairs with honey; They would be exposed to the risk of tasting honeys that have not been tested by a veterinary laboratory. It should be remembered that these associations are voluntary. At the moment, given the situation we are experiencing, they have to pay private security companies to ensure reception. If they're asked to pay extra for the veterinary lab tests, they're gonna put the key under the door. While volunteers can be asked a lot, it is not necessary to push the plug too far. The aim of this amendment is for your ministry to grant 300,000 euros to associations that organise honey fairs. Knowing that there are one or two honey fairs per department per year, and that our country has 100 departments, at a rate of 1000 to 1500 euros per fair, this is 300,000 euros. This is not the end of the world: I believe that your department is able to provide such support to associations so that they can use veterinary laboratories to analyze honey offered at fairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u156	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u157	Madam Member, you are raising an important problem, which also arises in my department, which is close to yours. Honey producers deserve to be defended. On the other hand, I recently read an article that referred to honey quality. In general, the appropriations for Programme 206 have been increased by more than 9%, which should help to address this problem. Mr. Minister will probably give us more details on this. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u158	Oh, no, Mr. Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u159	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u160	Madam Member, when I add up the many requests made on the 215 programme, I wonder how the Ministry of Agriculture will be able to function.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u161	It's only 300,000 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u162	Considered one after the other, these envelopes may seem small, but if I add them – if I give a favourable opinion on all the amendments tabled – I am led to wonder about the department's ability to function while responding to these requests.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u163	We have to lower the minister's salary! Or rather, that of the members of the cabinet!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u164	You are right: bees must be in sufficient numbers because they are an indispensable pollinator for many plant productions and contribute to maintaining biodiversity. In this draft finance law, we have included €1.58 million in appropriations for beekeeping health measures implemented by the Directorate-General for Food, DGAL. I want to reassure you: within this budget, the actions of DGAL have been strengthened in order to improve safety and prevention by carrying out more checks. Of course, we do not wish to compromise the safety of consumers or the safety and work of beekeeping professionals. These appropriations contribute in particular to the application of the European beekeeping programme, in particular to the implementation of scientific research protocols and the development of health visits in the beekeeping sector. None of this is called into question. In addition, a honey-targeted control plan is implemented annually by DGAL for pesticide and antibiotic residues. On the other hand, there is currently a lack of a specific legal basis to go further with regard to the individual controls that could be carried out at the honey fairs you are referring to. In any case, the resources allocated by this budget to DGAL to carry out the work we have entrusted to it will no doubt enable you to respond to your request. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u165	On Amendment No 403, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u166	Come on, Minister! Come on, ladies and gentlemen! Does a parliamentarian still have the capacity to reallocate 300,000 euros, i.e. a comma in a budget, not even the thickness of a line?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u167	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u168	Thanks to the excellent argument of our colleague Valérie Rabault, we understand that this is a matter of common sense. Society continues to want to protect itself against risk; We have entered into a logic of risk prevention all azimuts. But that has a cost. The agri-food industry or other sectors concerned are able to absorb this cost, but associations, volunteers and producers who work in a more artisanal way, in this case honey producers, will never be able to meet the costs imposed on them to prevent health risks, in this case paying laboratories to analyse some pots. The risk is simply that the ecosystem formed by these associations, volunteers and small producers will disappear. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is a choice of society: either we consider that the risks are so great that we must not change the rules while not granting any additional euro to the actors concerned and we will then witness the systematic destruction of all artisanal production in our country; We either consider it a serious matter, we take responsibility and we vote on this amendment. In any case, in my personal capacity, I will vote for it. I remember the heated debates we had on the protection of bees. In my view, Parliament's role is to protect both bees and beekeepers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u170	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u171	Mr Minister, you are telling us that the appropriations allocated to DGAL have been increased, I can hear you well, but we never see the colour in our territories! Indeed, who decides? The associations wrote to us to point out that the European Union had decided to abolish its programme. But this is a matter of public health, minister: do you accept that associations organise honey fairs without controlling the quality of the honey proposed? [["Very good! » on several benches of the LR group]] On the day when there is a problem, we will not have to complain, knowing that we will have discussed the issue in the House. This is an amount of 300,000 euros to support volunteers who organise honey fairs, one or two grants from 1000 to 1500 euros per department, while the CAP budget amounts to more than 10 billion euros and your ministry also has a certain budget. I thank President Chassaigne for calling for a public election. In this way, everyone in the Chamber will take responsibility for this issue of public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u172	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u173	[[Smile]] I do not wish to put a layer of honey on the spread, but I would like to pay tribute to the vigilance shown by our colleague Valérie Rabault in tabling this amendment. You are aware of this, Minister: the beekeeping industry is in deficit, and French beekeepers are in great difficulty. In addition, there is a micmac around the production and distribution of honey in France, not to say a traffic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u174	Yes, it's an understatement!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u175	The amount of EUR 300 000 is indeed significant, but we must consider it at the level of the appropriations we are about to adopt – for our part, we will support your draft budget, Minister. It would be a good idea for Members to be able to support the sector, in particular French beekeepers, who are facing great difficulties. Frankly, 300,000 euros to be distributed among 100 departments, it's really benign. I would be grateful if you, Minister, would encourage the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u176	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u177	I do not go back to the various arguments put forward by previous speakers, but I would like to make two observations. Firstly, as I say with some experience in this House, the systematic rejection of the amendments tabled is not a good thing for the functioning of our democracy, especially when the demands do not have an excessive budgetary impact and are in the order of the symbol.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u178	This remark is wise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u179	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Secondly, it must be understood that, in rural areas in particular, we need local activity; we need the enrichment brought by the associative life; We need events like this, honey fairs or something. Professionals and volunteers who engage in this framework need to be encouraged. By the way, these associations are facing increasing difficulties due to the abolition of assisted contracts. If it is no longer possible to give, from time to time, the necessary little boost, we will witness a gradual infringement of the rural world. It will be one of the episodes of the chronicle of an announced death.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u181	I put to the vote Amendment No 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u182	It's small!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u183	Thank you to those who voted in favour!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u184	I now call clause 49 of the bill, which is part of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u185	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 53, 62 and 258, to delete Article 49. Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u186	When replacing the tax system of the flat-rate agricultural benefit with that of the micro-agricultural benefit, the Financial Amendment Act for 2015 created an accompanying fund whose objective was to provide financial compensation to the farmers concerned by an increase in social contributions; 33 million aid had thus been planned over five years, from 2017 to 2021. However, the Government has decided to abolish this accompanying fund as early as 2018. This sudden removal, which deprives farmers of all visibility, is not justified. It will make them lose 25 million euros by 2021, even as they are going through a lasting crisis and need to be supported by the state. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to delete Article 49 in order to maintain this accompanying fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u187	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u188	My remarks are consistent with those of my colleague from the Republican Group. The stakes are EUR 25 million. We know very well, Minister, that the amount of social contributions will be a real concern for our farm friends in the coming months. Because you came back on the reduction of social contributions by 7 points decided in 2015, notably with the increase of the CSG voted a few days ago in the framework of the Social Security funding bill. By these identical amendments tabled by several groups, notably the Republicans and the Constructives, we wish to maintain financial support for farmers subject to the micro-agricultural income scheme since 1 January 2016; It's a necessity. We hope, Mr Minister, that these amendments will receive a favourable opinion from you and the approval of the special rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u189	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u190	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 258.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u191	I am going to abound in the direction of previous speakers. The exceptional and transitional social support fund has been set up to provide financial support to farmers who have been subject, since 1 January 2016, to the micro-BA scheme, which has resulted in a significant increase in the social contributions of farmers in certain sectors. You want to delete it today, on the grounds that you plan to reduce the expenses to offset the CSG increase. But, Minister, this compensation is now inoperative, as we have told the Minister of Public Action and Accounts. In addition, on a number of occasions, you have told us that a comprehensive tax reform on agriculture will be proposed shortly, particularly after the end of the general states of food. On several topics, you asked us to wait for the results of the latter before changing the rules. With this article, you're completely doing the opposite. The aim of this amendment is therefore to maintain the accompanying fund, so as not to go back on the State's commitments to our farmers, and pending a comprehensive and effective reform of agricultural taxation, which we hope will be sustainable. Indeed, our farmers are calling above all for stable rules, in order to project themselves in the future. Finally, Minister, the removal of this fund would be totally contrary to the Government's desire to support the economy, in particular by reducing the burden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u192	On the identical deletion amendments Nos 53, 62 and 258, I am by the Republicans and the Democratic and Republican Left groups asking for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u193	The Finance Committee may have met late, but no one has come to defend these amendments. The burden relief provided for under the PLFSS for 2018 makes it unnecessary to maintain an accompanying fund to compensate for the increase in social contributions resulting from the creation of the micro-BA scheme. I would point out that, for the operators covered by this scheme, the family contributions were abolished, whereas they amounted to 2.15% under the scheme. We have also reduced sickness contributions, which range from 1.5% to 2.9%, compared to 10% before. The usefulness of this fund is no longer demonstrated. In addition, there is a system of common law, managed by the MSA, which can cover contributions for farmers or farmers in difficulty. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u194	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u195	With this reform, we do not question the principle of 2016 relief. We are simply trying to distribute them in a much more equitable way. The aim is to harmonise the scheme of sickness contributions for all agricultural and non-agricultural self-employed persons on a permanent basis. The provision of identical benefits for all self-employed is a matter of fairness. Moreover, 100% of farmers will see their health contributions reduced compared to the uniform scale that applied until 2015. This new scale is in keeping with the government's commitment to provide much more significant purchasing power gains to the most modest incomes, including those of farmers. Compared to the scale decided in February 2016, at the height of the agricultural crisis, to support farmers' income, the new scale will also allow a further reduction of social security charges for 60% of farmers. For farmers between 60 % and 80 % of the total number of staff, the increase in contributions will not exceed 1 point, i.e. a maximum amount of less than 20 euros per month. These farmers will also have an annual comparative advantage of up to 1320 euros compared to the situation before 2016. I would add that, since the reform of the agricultural flat-rate benefit decided at the end of 2015, very substantial reductions in social security contributions, in particular for sickness and family contributions, have been granted. The trend will be further intensified in the framework of the PLFSS for 2018, compared to 2015. The reduction of the scales will allow for an annual reduction of 1000 euros in contributions for farmers who are at the maximum of the threshold of income of the micro-BA. In this new context, it is justified to abolish in advance the social support fund set up during the reform of the agricultural flat-rate benefit. However, EUR 8 million will be paid to the MSA's funds to accompany any contribution increases due for 2017. I would point out that operators who have already opted for micro-BA will always be able to appeal, in the event of particular difficulties, to the common law scheme for the taking up of contributions, managed by the MSA and endowed with EUR 30 million per year. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u196	Mr François André has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u197	I would like to speak as rapporteur of the fact-finding mission on agricultural taxation which the Finance Committee of the previous legislature had set up under the chairmanship of Mr Le Fur, one of whose recommendations was precisely the replacement of the flat-rate agricultural benefit scheme by that of the micro-BA. I am not in favour of these amendments for two reasons. Firstly, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to one of the amendments, the accompanying fund has been set up on a transitional basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u198	It was supposed to last five years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u199	He was to accompany, for a few years, the possible losers of the reform – who are a minority, as the minister rightly pointed out. The State thus betrays nothing at all by putting an end to a measure which, from the outset, was temporary. Secondly, in substance, we must bear in mind the way in which the new micro-BA regime was designed. It was initially planned to apply a 87% reduction to the incomes of the farmers concerned – I am speaking under the supervision of Mrs Valérie Rabault, the previous rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u200	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u201	That rate wasn't coming out of the hat! The department's proposal, which we approved, took into account the average contributions paid by those who so far benefited from the plan. However, the flat-rate agricultural benefit scheme had great inequalities, as it was a system organized by the departments. It can therefore be considered that, if some of the beneficiaries of the lump sum plan see their contributions increase, it is that this system was quite advantageous. We must be wary of the boomerang effect of the argument: we can now consider that we had a damn right to replace the package, which was very unequal, with the micro-BA. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, I am against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u202	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u203	The removal of this fund is a bad signal to farmers, especially those who make the smallest turnover, affected by the micro-BA regime. I understand the argument that many farmers pay lower contributions, but among those who report to the micro-BA, some, who see their income increase, may find it difficult to pay their social contributions. While the arrangement was temporary, it was expected to last several years. If this article is adopted, it will have lasted only one year. It would be wiser to wait for a real assessment of the reform before deciding to abolish the accompanying fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u204	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u205	Minister, you are justifying the abolition of the accompanying fund by reconciling social contributions between farmers and the self-employed in other sectors. While this reconciliation is expected to reduce the amount of social contributions that farmers will have to pay compared to 2015, it will result in a significant increase in contributions for not a minority, but a large part of them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why the removal of this fund is a mistake. I recall that it had been negotiated by the profession with the previous government so that the increase would be gradual until 2021 – so we did not reach the end of the process. It also seems to me that it is a matter of respecting the commitments of the State. This is a similar problem to the one raised earlier by Mrs Bonnivard on aid for the maintenance of organic farming: we are interrupting programmes before the original term, which is tantamount to calling into question the word of the State. Farmers were counting on this aid. I therefore strongly encourage you to maintain the accompanying fund and delete Article 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u206	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u207	Minister, you are in the process of negotiating with the agricultural profession within the framework of the general states of food. How do you want to build trust with our farmers if you change the rules during the game? While this social fund, intended to accompany farmers, was to last until 2021, you now decide to abolish it; under these conditions, you will find it difficult to gain the confidence of our farmers. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] In addition, Minister, you rely on figures from 2015. However, in 2016 and 2017, agriculture went through major crises. Free to forget it, to consider that the situation has improved and to rely on the figures for 2015, but if you take into account the reality of the 2017 agricultural situation, you will agree that it is not appropriate to increase farmers' contributions. At second reading, I think we will also be talking about the increase in the CSG, including in this sector. It is not right to change the rules during the game.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u208	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 53, 62 and 258.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u209	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 433 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u210	This amendment concerns the wood and forestry sector, which needs the technicality, skills and involvement of the chambers of agriculture to create added value and employment at the heart of the territories – I think everyone can agree. To this end, they need to be able to work in synergy with regional forest ownership centres, which are also very involved with foresters. They also need to give more space to the actors in the forest-wood sector for the programming of the various actions they implement year after year. Two texts, a decree and a decree, were published in May 2017 on forest cents and the role of chambers of agriculture in the forest-wood sector. They provide for the possibility for the regional chambers to implement a common service called "wood valuation and territory". The scheme, like its financing, remains controlled by the chambers, but a better representation of the foresters is ensured for the use of these credits. This amendment makes it possible to give concrete effect to the financing of the actions of the regional programmes "Valorisation du bois et territoire" of the chambers. It also makes it possible to strengthen the shift in appropriations for the benefit of forest development, thus making the whole reform which we wish to accompany fully operational.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u211	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 212.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u212	Minister, what is the value of the state's word? This is an important issue when we know the legal and fiscal uncertainty that can sometimes prevail or when contracts are not respected. With regard to private agricultural establishments, the provisions of the Rocard Act of 1984 provide that the subsidy rate for the private agricultural education network is gradually increased to 65%. In fact, not only has this rate not been achieved, but also, far from being on a rising line, it would follow the opposite slope, raising the concern of the network representatives, since the idea would be to lower it to 61%. I repeat the question: what is the state's word worth? From the time that the latter undertook to cover part of the costs from 1984 onwards and where the components of private agricultural education account for more than 65 per cent of the training system, the calculation of the cost of pupils should be reviewed, in which the National Council for Private Agricultural Education has shown errors and shells: the average cost per pupil is artificially reduced by the understaffing of certain classes or by insufficiently taking into account the premiums granted to managers of public schools in addition to their indexary remuneration. This is why the amendment states: "The criteria for determining the grant are defined in consultation between the administration and the representatives of the staff", so that the word of the State is respected and this network of private agricultural establishments can function.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u214	The committee has not considered this amendment which, in my view, concerns programme 143 devoted to agricultural technical education. This discussion should therefore take place in the context of the review of the credits of the "School Education" mission and not in that of this mission. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u216	As the rapporteur has pointed out, school credits are not discussed at this meeting, although I agree that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is responsible for agricultural technical education and research. However, if you have read the draft budget that we are submitting for your approval, you have seen that agricultural education is one of its priorities. It is indeed essential to prepare the new generations today to settle on farms tomorrow or to embrace the careers that revolve around agri-food, research, innovation and, more broadly, the agricultural economy. Multi-annual financial protocols guarantee full-time private education federations a constant amount over the entire period of application. Over the period 2012-2017, spending per student on "full-time" private sector increased by 15%, more than for the public, narrowing the gap between the two sectors. The State therefore respects its word: it continues to work with representatives of private education. It is in this sense that my firm has received the trade union organizations. I am also committed to engaging in a dialogue with them. We want to improve the financial support for private agricultural education, despite a constrained budgetary framework and a context of continuing downsizing in this area. However, I know the place of education, whether public or private, particularly agricultural education, in the territories: it translates into employment, training and territorial networking. Finally, I would like to point out that 98% of pupils leave agricultural education with a job, which demonstrates the inclusion of agricultural education in employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u217	We must therefore be in favour of this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u218	You can count on my support to defend agricultural education, whether public or private, throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u219	That's right! I can testify to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u220	There are witnesses. Because we are now conducting negotiations with private education and we have a constant concern to keep the word of the State and to move gradually with these institutions, I am expressing an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u221	In cauda venenum!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u222	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u223	Yes, the venom is in the fall! Minister, in the future law for agriculture, food and forestry, two articles are devoted to agricultural education – you remember because you were part of the same committee as me. However, your predecessor has succeeded in writing these two articles dedicated to agricultural education without the words "private education" being included, although, as you have pointed out, the majority of agricultural establishments are private and bear witness to the formidable and proven success of the students. The exit employment rate is excellent thanks to provisions which are specific to private education and which should inspire public education. This amendment reflects the concern of private education actors. It is not a question of opposing the public to the private sector, but, at the very least, of equalizing two systems of education that respond and each have its own place. Today, however, it is clear that private agricultural education does not receive the same support as public agricultural education, which is unfair. I would like to stress this amendment, which seeks to achieve parity between the two systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u224	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 57, 132, 196, 281, 135 and 278 rectified, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 57, 132, 196 and 281 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 135 and 278 as corrected. I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u225	Guy Bricout tabled this amendment on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Republicans, IDU and Independents. Through this amendment, it is the old world that, with experience that allows it to reason, addresses the new world. Indeed, we and the minister have been very much affected by delays, of which we are ashamed, in the payment of aid, whether it be compensation for natural handicaps, aid for organic farming or agri-environmental and climatic measures. This is how 2015 will only be concluded in November of this year! I am ashamed of this situation vis-à-vis the farmers in my constituency – I know, minister, that you are aware of it. The purpose of this amendment is to ask for a report that will allow us to imagine the trajectory of European funding for 2019-2020, so that the envelopes are well programmed and, above all, payments are made on time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u226	All right! That's an excellent congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u227	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 132.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u228	The purpose of this amendment, Minister, is to give us, as well as farmers, visibility on the funding arrangements for ICHNs, MAECs and aid for conversion to organic farming for the years 2019 and 2020. The analysis of expenditure since the start of the programming of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development – EAFRD – 2014-2020 indicates that from 2019 onwards, despite the transfer from the first to the second pillar, European appropriations will be very much insufficient to pay for this aid: almost 30% of the appropriations would be missing in 2019 and almost all in 2020. In the previous months, I was still vice-president of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, delegated to agriculture: the DRAF – the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Forestry – and the representatives of the agricultural profession and I have had very difficult discussions for the following reasons: repackaging, changing eligibility rules in the course of programming, particularly with regard to the MAECs, and falling ceilings due to massive overheating of the models. This exercise is no longer satisfactory, it has even become unfeasible. He is even less responsible for the visibility we owe to farmers. We cannot add to the delays in EAFRD payments a lack of response and visibility on the financing of these measures in 2019 and 2020, i.e. tomorrow. This amendment therefore calls for an upstream study report, i.e. from this year onwards, on how these measures will be financed for the end of programming. It is our collective responsibility to put an end to a completely irresponsible fiscal cavalry with regard to EAFRD funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u229	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 196.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u230	Minister, there was a lot of talk this morning about ICHN, which is a particular concern for farmers – you know this very well. The request for a report studying the funding modality of the ICHNs is necessary when we know that, until 2020, there will be a huge shortage of funds, amounting to hundreds of millions of euros. Moreover, farmers now receive only 90% of the aid expected, not the whole of the aid to which they are entitled, contrary, moreover, to the promise made to Cournon by the previous President of the Republic. That is why we very much hope that you will accept this proposal for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u231	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 281.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u232	Mr Minister, the parliamentarian I am usually resisting requests for reports, not only because of their administrative cost but also because they are accumulating and because in France we prefer diagnostics to the delivery of medicines, where we are much less dynamic. In this case, however, we know first of all that the path of this aid to the territories, in particular ICHN and aid for conversion to organic farming, is untenable, especially since we face a real problem of administering European aid. Then there are areas of tension in these rural areas. If I take Mont Ventoux, in my constituency, there are very few farms, fallow areas. There's only one farmer left. We are led at some point to ask ourselves questions of society. It's one of them. As the budget projection is unsustainable, we need to inform the debate and future decisions so that the bar can be rectified. I would remind you that the ICHN concern just a hundred thousand farmers. They are therefore very specialized devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u233	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u234	The purpose of this amendment, like the four previous amendments, is to request the Government to report on the future financing of ICHNs, MAECs and aid for conversion to organic farming. We had the opportunity to raise the issue in committee: we decided to take up Mrs Magnier's amendment while extending the date from 1 February to 1 June 2018, in order to allow more time for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to collect more data, which will allow her to draw up an even more interesting report to use for 2019 and 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u235	On identical amendments Nos 135 and 278, as corrected, I am referred to the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 278 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u236	Nor will I elaborate on the arguments that my colleagues have already made very well. Amendment No 278, as corrected, gives the Government a reasonable period of time, since it leaves you six months, Minister, to give us this report which we are waiting for and which will give our farmers more visibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u237	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u238	The committee is against the identical amendments Nos 57, 132, 196 and 281, which I have defended under No 135, and No 278, identical, which Mrs Magnier has just defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u240	Of course, we have taken up this question with arms as soon as we arrive at the Ministry of Agriculture. We were in a budgetary stalemate with regard to ICHN, crop insurance and the financing of organic farming: that is why, at the heart of the summer, we transferred 4.2% of the appropriations from pillar I of the CAP to pillar II. We estimated that this 4.2% was sufficient to fund the entire model. Today, a number of parliamentarians are calling for a government report on this issue to be submitted no later than February 1, 2018. Time is too short...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u241	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u242	... because it will not allow us to have all the information that can shed enough light on the report. The proposal by Mr Hervé Pellois, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, to postpone the submission of the report to June 2018, is a completely acceptable compromise. Since the spirit of synthesis is blowing this morning in this House, let us rise to this challenge together! I therefore give an opinion in favour of identical amendments Nos 135 and 278 corrected, so that Parliament can be informed before June 2018 on this extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u243	What wisdom!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u244	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u245	Our group supports these various amendments. Whether the report is submitted in February or June, it is a matter of timing. The expected trajectories are unattainable. As far as ICHN is concerned, it seems to me that €2.7 billion has been consumed in four years: therefore, only 35% of this €4.2 billion envelope remains available for the next three years. As for MAECs and aid for organic farming, two schemes which are fungible, 85% of the allocation has been consumed in four years: therefore, 15% remains for the last three years. Indeed, 4.2% of the appropriations from pillar I were transferred to pillar II this summer: the total amount of these transfers now amounts to 7.5%. We wonder who will bear the cost of these measures. Indeed, when the appropriations under pillar II are increased, the appropriations under pillar I are reduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u246	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u247	We need to have a very precise report on the impact of these transfers between pillars and on the needs of ICHN, MAEC and aid for organic farming. These issues are very important. How will the regions position themselves in relation to all this? I repeat, of course, we support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u248	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u249	Mr Minister, Mr Special Rapporteur, for the sake of consistency, we will withdraw Amendment No 57, which provided for the report to be submitted by 1 February 2018. It's the result that counts! If the report is submitted by 1 June 2018 at the latest, it suits me very well: the deadline seems reasonable to me. I therefore agree with the identical amendments Nos 135 and 278 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u250	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u251	[[Smile]] Mr Benoit, you do not have a monopoly on constructive positions – you have never claimed it. We, too, will be constructive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u253	To the extent that the minister accepts the principle of the report, Mrs Bonnivard and I withdraw our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u254	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u255	I welcome the constructive spirit and synthesis of each other. We obviously support identical amendments Nos 135 and 278, which are reasonable and will allow us to work. Minister, I also welcome the work done by the Government to ensure that farmers are paid. A transfer of appropriations from the first pillar to the second had to be made. I consider the backlog to be serious: the commitments of the State and the public authorities in general towards the peasants have been dragging on for a very long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u256	For two years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u257	If, of course, I agree with the request for a report, we will also have to ask ourselves, Mr Minister, how we have been able to find ourselves in this situation, with a budgetary cavalry as we already know that the State will not be able to fulfil the commitments it has made. The previous majority is responsible for this situation: through the MAECs, aid for organic farming and other schemes, farmers have been allowed to enter into contracts knowing very well that there would be no credits to pay them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u258	Yet, these credits existed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u259	This is the fault of the previous majority, to which the minister belonged!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u260	This situation will have to be analysed in the report and by the committee which will be working on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u261	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 135 and 278 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u262	I have before me two amendments, Nos 159 and 265, which can be presented together. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u263	All the rural development programmes implemented in the regions and financed by the EAFRD have suffered massive payment delays – more than two years, sometimes even three – by the ASP, the Service and Payment Agency. While the State has put in place repayable cash contributions – ATR – for certain flagship measures in the national framework such as the ICHN, measures taken under the CAPE, aid to forest enterprises and even more the LEADER programmes – the link between actions to develop the rural economy – is almost two years behind payment; they are paid after the first pillar measures, which are priorities. This situation is dramatic for farmers who have started work to modernise their farms and for whom this delay has a particularly negative effect on an already tense cash flow. It is extremely difficult, in particular, for the LEADER-supporting structures – the country unions, the intercommunities, the regional nature parks – which suffer almost three years of late payment compared to the first expenses incurred for the preparation of the files. In my constituency, some associative structures are almost at a standstill because of these delays. That is why Amendment No 265 asks the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the malfunctions of the ASP and its Osiris software, which is the main cause of all these delays in payment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u264	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u265	They were not presented to the Finance Committee, which was therefore unable to examine them. When we wrote our report on the appropriations of the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission, we did not escape the need to invite the Service and Payment Agency. We also invited the regions to come and explain to us the difficulties they faced in the payment of aid. We have obtained very clear explanations, which, as you have seen, are reinforced by the budgetary decisions we made earlier, on the proposal of the Government. This is of course a painful subject for farmers and for all the associations which have suffered this dysfunction. I'll try to sum things up in a concise way. We preferred first pillar aid to avoid the fines that Brussels would have imposed on us if we had not complied with the payment deadlines. In this context, cash advances have been made. As far as the second pillar is concerned, we have also dealt with them as a matter of priority, trying to give priority to those whose sums were the most important, because we considered them to be those which concerned the most farmers. As a result, the lower amounts of CAPA and aid to organic farming were at the end of the list. This does not mean that they were less important to farmers who had engaged in this type of agriculture. The ASP has provided us with a specific schedule, which has been confirmed by the department and which you will find in our report, which sets out on a date-by-date basis all the objectives that the Agency will have to meet. I do not think it is necessary today to draw up a report, which would, of course, illustrate the difficulties that have been described to us but which would not solve this problem. At the same time, the regions present some difficulties for us today. Do national software applications need to be used when the programmes are specific to each region? The regions do not always simplify things: they introduce slightly different provisions into their programmes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u266	We must respect the free administration of local and regional authorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u267	...which is normal, since it is they who allocate the aid. Therefore, one may wonder whether all of these software should be organized according to the ASP or other payment agencies' scheme. This issue will need to be addressed in future discussions with the regions; I am sure the Government is already doing so. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u269	Mrs Bonnivard, as soon as I joined the Government on 22 June, we took up this problem of payment of CAP aid. We have published a calendar which we regularly update, which we have addressed to parliamentarians, and which I would like to make available to those who wish to do so. I had the opportunity to tell you earlier that this calendar would be kept. From the very first moments at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture, I have ensured that the necessary steps are taken with the ASP to ensure that this timetable is firmly maintained. It does not happen a week without us being informed of the progress of payments and we scrupulously ensure that these delays, which are unbearable to many of our farmers, are rectified. During the months of April and May last, when I sat on the benches of this assembly, I had the opportunity to go, together with other parliamentarians like Philippe Gosselin, who sits next to you, to the departmental direction of the territories and the sea – DDTM – of the Channel, where we were able to see from sight the difficulties faced by the agents in the handling of these cases. Since then, we have continued to inform ourselves of the progress of work in the various DLDDs in our country, and it is to address this problem that we have included in the budget additional full-time equivalents. With this amendment, you are asking us today for a report, but we already know the causes of this major malfunction that, whatever the government or the majority, no minister will want to know again as it is unbearable for those we represent. For having met many farmers in the territory of which I was elected, I know that it is unbearable to hear a producer tell us that he struggles to draw from his activity 1000 euros per month of compensation or salary and that he is waiting for more than 20,000 or even 30000 euros under the MAECs since 2015. We must find ways to reduce these effects. We have therefore put in place a timetable, which is and will be kept. So let us be more interested in the future. Let us not look at what has been done or has not been done – I do not accuse anyone for previous years – but let us see how we will approach the next stage of programming and can be more proactive and, ultimately, effective in paying the aid our producers and farmers expect. I therefore express an objection to your request for a report. I prefer to work with parliamentarians. On these issues, it is important to take into account everyone's perception and I would like to take an interest in what we will do tomorrow, in the context of the next programming, to prepare together the conditions that will allow farmers to be compensated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u270	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u271	I would like to commend the Government on this new timetable for the payment of CAP aid. Inaction in this area would be unacceptable, as the deficiencies found have affected the cash flow of the holdings, risking undermining their budgetary balance. I would also like to support the position of our colleague, on the other side of the House, on the LEADER programme. In fact, as soon as we talk about European funds, the deadlines are still too long, which puts the cash flow of associations and communities into difficulty. This is even worse with LEADER, given the problems associated with the Osiris system and the Service and Payment Agency. These problems are also cash-flow problems, which is a pity, because they are not entirely of the same order as budgetary problems. It is indeed regrettable to put associations and communities at risk for simple problems of payment deadlines. It would be good if a report could help to deepen the question and to know where the problem arose. Solutions must be found, not just a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u272	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u273	Minister, thank you for this timetable. The purpose of the report that I asked for was precisely to ensure that the causes of dysfunction are clearly known to all and that we can work on solutions that do not duplicate it. I wanted to stress LEADER and the corresponding payment schedules. Some territories have in fact stopped programming. For my part, I am concerned about the risk of ex officio decommitment of unused LEADER funds. It would be tragic if all this work had been done for nothing and the project promoters were put at risk in the territory. We will also have to ask ourselves, for the next programming, how LEADER is to be implemented: whereas these are, by their very nature, specific territorial programmes, they are obliged to enter into the boxes of national control, which is an unfeasible exercise even with the best service and payment agency in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u274	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u275	I too would like to commend the work done by the ministry in trying to solve these problems and I agree with what Mrs Bonnivard has just said about LEADER. The programming committees no longer dare to programme, because they know that they will put associations or structures that spend in a situation of inability to pay, or even weaken these very structures. I do not think that a report is indispensable, because some things have already been identified, but we will have to go further. It was hoped that the LEADER system would be managed by the regions and that all these arrangements would be decentralised. The truth is, obviously, we weren't ready. Furthermore, and although Mr Bricout is no longer in the Chamber, I would like to point out that all this accredits the argument that, when it comes to European funds, things are complicated. It is not, however, the European funds themselves – it is enough to see how they are managed in Spain, Italy or many other European countries – but the organisational structure of their management in France, which has not worked for years. This is another question that we will have to ask ourselves, because, as you have said, what is required of project promoters on such simple and territorial issues is unacceptable. This undermines the willingness of many of us here to show the usefulness of European funds in the territories. We must therefore also work in this direction, so as not to discourage those who want to work with European funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u276	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u277	Mr Minister, I once again welcome the work done by the Ministry to settle all these late payments, which are obviously unbearable for farmers, and I would like to support Mr Fesneau's comments with the concrete example of a financing of EUR 100 000 for a slaughterhouse of which I was president: since 2015, the FEADER and LEADER funds have still not come down to the level of the region and still not distributed. Therefore, it is better not to need it too much! [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Some companies try to turn without these financings, but it's very complicated. I would like to draw the department's attention to the demand for regionalization of the CAP and will be very vigilant in this regard, in order to avoid such problems. Some centralisation is necessary in this area in order to avoid regional imbalances and to ensure efficiency. I am not sure, indeed, that regionalisation is always the solution for greater efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u278	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u279	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 314.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u280	The purpose of this amendment is to contribute actively to raising awareness of the problem of farmers and agriculture, which is how to ensure that agriculture is at the service of the people. In a 2010 Communication, the European Commission states that the CAP has three objectives. The first is sustainable food production – that is, to allow farmers to live with dignity from their work. The second is to ensure sustainable management of natural resources – in other words, to transform current practices according to the ecological imperative. The third, finally, is to ensure balanced territorial development, i.e. to enable activity to be maintained throughout the territory, not in some ultra-specialised and competitive areas. On these three points, however, there is much evidence that these declarations of intent are far from being achieved. The Agricultural Social Mutuality estimates that almost a third of farmers live on less than 350 euros a month: where has the dignity of the worker gone? In 2013, France had 515,000 farms, half as much as 20 years ago. The trend is the same for the number of permanent workers. The agricultural area fell by 1.7 million hectares. Is this compatible with maintaining life in rural areas? At the same time, the concentration of holdings continues. Those who resist the best are those who specialize in arable crops, knowing that French farmers still use 9000 tonnes of glyphosate. How is it that the greening of the aid allows it? It is time for the CAP to keep its promises and, for that, start to look at the model of a peasant and ecological agriculture, which we are defending. A critical assessment must be made, on the basis of which France can propose reforms to its European partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u282	The President of the Republic himself said that it was necessary to review the guidelines of a number of farms in our country. We are therefore at the heart of the debate of the general states of food. Your comments on agricultural policy are very general and I doubt that the report you are asking for brings elements of interest to those who are interested in these issues. We all have the will to keep a dynamic agriculture in France. However, the CAP can be credited with improving the installation of farmers from 2015. It is now a matter for us to be a proposal force within the framework of the new CAP which will be established from 2020 – or even from 2021 or 2022 if we have to postpone the implementation of it a little bit. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u284	Mr President, many regulatory assessments of the CAP are already required, particularly with regard to our Community obligations. The EAFRD is thus evaluated for each programming, as is the hexagonal rural development programme, released in early 2017. Therefore, the additional assessments you are requesting do not seem useful, as they are already carried out in existing regulatory frameworks. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u285	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 315.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u286	The aim of this amendment is to request a report on the means used by the CAP for the ecological transition. Everyone seems to subscribe today to the imperative of the ecological transition, and we welcome it. In 2015, François Hollande received COP 21, while today President Macron seems to want "Make the climate great again", but behind the words, it is on the acts that future generations will judge us. In this perspective, agriculture is a crucial sector which, at present, still pollutes too much soil, groundwater, air, and even products delivered to consumers. As a result, pesticide residues are found in our urine at levels higher than those allowed for drinking water. We must therefore turn to action. Mr Travert has disappointed us by announcing that the State is abolishing aid for the maintenance of organic farming. He thus let the market do its law – an act all the more incomprehensible since, on 12 October, in conclusion of the first part of the general states of food, the President of the Republic said he wanted to promote more organic production or agroecology. Again, we are asking for a quantified assessment of the greening of aid, so that we can be sure that the CAP is not simply "greenwashing".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u288	The Finance Committee has not considered this amendment. Same unfavorable opinion as on the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u290	Mrs Obono, what the President of the Republic said on 11 October in Rungis is indeed part of our road map, in order to defend a strong ambition for organic farming and its development. It is not, as you say, about leaving everything at the market. Today, you will agree, there is a strong social demand for organic products, and we must accompany it. To do this, we need more farmers to be able to convert to organic farming and to find the means to do so. That is why we are setting up a tax credit for them. As for those who have already chosen to convert to organic farming, they will continue to benefit from maintenance aid, because we have committed ourselves to it. The State therefore does not withdraw from the maintenance aid, but it revises its copy for those who will carry out their conversion work tomorrow and whose continuation will be supported by the renewal of the tax credit. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] As far as the report requested by your amendment is concerned, it does not seem necessary, as these assessments are already being carried out, as all CAP policies are, for regulatory reasons in particular, being called for. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to your proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u291	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 317.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u292	This amendment tends to require an information report on land development and rural settlement companies – the SAFE. In the 1960s, the Government, in conjunction with agricultural trade unionism, had decided to promote an agricultural model based on a couple working on its farm. To achieve this, SAFER was created as a powerful tool to control concentrations and influence the sale of land to form these ideal farms where to install young people. The SAFEs therefore called into question the free functioning of the land market. Unfortunately, their control has been greatly relaxed by the last governments and it would be sound to know the effects. What share of the land released each year ends in the expansion, in the artificialization or in the installation of young people? At the time of the ecological transition, the role of FASER is more relevant than ever. The necessary release of fossil fuels and chemistry encourages a more autonomous, more labour intensive, human-sized model of exploitation. The ideal of the 1960s of the worker on his land, owner of his work tool, also remains a desirable horizon in the face of the risk of a shift to firm farming.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u294	This amendment was not discussed in committee. You have recalled the important role played by SAFER since their creation and we can only agree with you. The SAFEs are experiencing difficulties mainly in the field of land, mentioned earlier by Mrs Genevard, and in the control of its allocation in the case of membership structures. The Act has improved a number of measures relating to FASER. Thus, when organic farming land is available, it is tried to reallocate it to organic farmers themselves, as it is important to maintain the potential that has been put in place. But the fundamental problem remains land. Our colleague Dominique Potier will be responsible for an information mission on this specific problem. We have important work to do in this House to find the solutions that we did not find during the previous mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u295	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u296	Hervé Pellois was perfectly clear; unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u297	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u298	I agree with the rapporteur: the best way to appreciate the work of the SAFE is to look at the Congress of the National Federation of SAFER in December 2016. It is all there, with numerous documents dealing with the application of the law of the future for agriculture, the adaptation to the new competences of the SAFE, partial preemptions, the intervention on spaces that have lost agricultural use or the recovery of wasteland. Other documents are published, such as the annual publication of the indicator on the forest market in France. There is also a magazine on land prices, noting a slowdown in the rise in prices, the revival of urbanization, the confirmation of the concentration of land and farms, as well as the growth of farm members. So we already have a lot of documentation on the subject. In the absence of a convention this year, an Assembly of Territories will be held on November 30th, with publications and activity reports for each topic. Finally, as you know, Mr Dominique Potier has been entrusted with the drafting of a report on the management of agricultural land and the SAFE. For all these reasons, we will not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u299	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 324.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u300	The purpose of this amendment is also to submit a report. The existence of numerous reports on all the topics we are discussing should not prevent us from creating fact-finding missions or drafting reports on more specific topics, otherwise we would be of little use. We have specific requests in terms of encryption and it seems to us important that the work of our Assembly is not based solely on external reports. In this case, we are asking for a report on the deletion of an indicator assessing the number of organic farmers. In each program of this finance bill, a number of indicators are proposed to assess the policy. These are in line with the objectives set by the Government; As such, they are interesting but also raise a number of questions. We would like to draw attention to a point that does not seem to us to be insignificant: the removal of the indicator on the share of organic farmers – only the indicator on the share of the useful agricultural area cultivated in organic farming remains. This amendment raises the question: the objective of the number of farmers is removed to focus solely on the area cultivated in organic and hence the production. But the increase in organic production is not enough: we must prepare a transition to a peasant agriculture, of human size, intensive in employment, closely linked to its territory and to its inhabitants and inhabitants. We must be vigilant not to move from conventional industrial agriculture to organic industrial agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u302	This amendment was not discussed in committee. The subject you want to deal with seems a bit complex to me; I am not sure that there is much to say in such a report. Organic farming is governed by a number of European rules and by special provisions adopted by groups of farmers. I do not think it necessary to draw up a report on this subject. Organic farming makes it possible to hire more people than traditional farming; We will certainly know the number of agricultural assets. I express an unfavorable opinion because I do not think that organic farming is threatened by industrialization. It would be pretty great to achieve the results that agriculture achieves today without organically-repressed products: if we did this, the work done would be considerable, but I do not believe it at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u304	Given the social demand, particularly in the urban sectors, that organic farming is experiencing, I do not think that organic farming is particularly at risk today. It is all the less so as we have set ambitious targets for the development of organic farming. With regard to your request for a report, the indicator of the share of areas cultivated in organic farming in the agricultural area used effectively measures the development of the organic production sector. This indicator is based on reliable data collected by the Agence Bio – Agence française pour le développement et la promotion de l'agriculture biologique – in its mission as an observatory of organic agriculture. I want to pay tribute to the work of the Bio Agency and its Director, Mr. Guhl. On the other hand, the number of organic farmers is difficult to measure and its indicator difficult to interpret because the available data refer to operators, i.e. businesses, which do not allow the number of organic farmers to be distinguished. For example, a GAEC – a joint holding farm group – that counts as a unit may include a person managing one part of the organic farm and another managing the other part in conventional farming or any other agricultural process, regardless of the number of members of the GAEC. The share of certified organic farmers in the total number of farmers is therefore difficult to quantify in the territory. This indicator has thus been removed as part of the redesign of the performance model of programme 149 and it does not seem appropriate to propose an information report on the appropriateness of this deletion. The number of organic producers or farmers is difficult to quantify. The important thing is to know the market, to know how to meet the demand and to check whether the areas of interest to organic farming are well implemented in the programme we plan. I have an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u305	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u306	Social demand is indeed very strong, which we believe is positive. For this reason, we believe that maintenance aid must be preserved and that a strategy must be developed to change the paradigm in our agricultural development scheme. We are talking about developing organic and peasant agriculture, because there is a need to change patterns and invest in a higher labour intensity in order to boost activity in this sector. We should look at the complexity you're reporting in trying to find solutions. We do not believe that the alternative to productive agriculture is industrialization on the same models as organic farming. For this reason, we believe that there is a need for a peasant dimension, concerned with the qualitative interest of the human presence on the ground. This is indeed another scheme, another strategy, but this is the way that needs to be followed today to create employment, reinvigorate activity in this area and promote the ecological transition; That is why this report is important.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u307	I have before me two amendments, Nos 327 and 328, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 327.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u308	The purpose of this amendment is to provide an information report on public forest management. The forests of France occupy more than a third of the national territory, with 24.6 million hectares. These forests allow for the maintenance of complex ecosystems and better protection against diseases, climatic hazards, fires; They are carbon sinks that absorb 15% of our greenhouse gas emissions in France. Shaded or solid logging practices without replanting destroy ecosystem services provided by the forest. In addition, the forest can be a vehicle for economic development. But French wood is very little valued and we are importers of firewood. The March 2017 interdepartmental report makes the same observation: it highlights underinvestment, although progress is noted. Had the Government proposed measures to achieve those objectives? In an enlarged committee, the possibility of a hearing was raised. We therefore renew the request for a hearing by Mrs Sylvie Alexandre, who was in charge of the report, to present her conclusions to parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u309	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 328.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u310	France has the second largest forest mass in the European Union. However, the forestry sector now employs only 440,000 workers, compared with 1.5 million in Germany, where the forest area is twice as low. The merger of the Departmental Directorates of Agriculture and Forestry with the Departmental Directorates of Equipment and successive reductions in the NFB's budget – the National Forestry Board – have considerably weakened the ability of forest officers to intervene. Similarly, the segmentation of agents' activities seems to indicate a policy of outsourcing forest services and, eventually, privatization. However, forests are a temporality and logic incompatible with the mercantile interests of the private sector. The NFB carries out public service missions that are not directly cost-effective but are necessary for the environment, such as forest maintenance, monitoring of air and water quality, or preserving biotopes. The report requested from the Government will analyse the impact of these restructurings and reductions in the NFB's budget on the working conditions of public servants and the quality of public service. We also call for the hearing of Agency officials so that they can testify to their working conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u312	These amendments have not been submitted to the Finance Committee. You would like to hear about reports already made or the difficulties currently facing NFB employees. These issues have already been the subject of work and analysis, particularly within the Office itself. In addition, the preparation of the 2017-2020 target and performance contract allowed us to gather all possible information on forest problems. Finally, in our role as Special Rapporteur, we audit both NFB representatives and private managers. We therefore have all the possible and imaginable elements at our disposal to assess the situation. The aim is to strengthen this sector, which has unfortunately been! In the past few decades, there has been little support. I am against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u314	Same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u315	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u316	I confirm, for having discussed it with Roland Lescure, chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, that the committee will hold hearings on this subject of the forest as soon as the agenda permits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u317	I call the funds from the "Agricultural and Rural Development" trust account, entered in statement D. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 429.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u318	I know, Minister, how much you are committed to research in the field of agriculture. You recalled it during the general states of agriculture. We were all the more surprised to see that in this draft budget, the appropriations of the special allocation account "Development agricole et rural", the famous CASDAR, which partly finances this indispensable research and in which France achieves very good results – French researchers have thus managed to develop new species, honouring our country – were lowering by 10 million euros. This seems to us a lot, and very damaging to French agricultural research. You know that we are somewhat corset by the Constitution. This amendment is intended to move EUR 100 000 in appropriations, but it is really an amendment calling for you to continue to support agricultural research. Delete EUR 10 million from CASDAR does not seem relevant to us for today or the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u320	This is an important issue, and I too am very interested in what can be done about agricultural development. I know that the funds allocated to research institutes and our chambers of agriculture to finance research in this field play an important role. For my part, I am opposed to a transfer of appropriations which, in my view, does not mean much, except to draw the Government's attention to the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u321	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u322	You know, honourable Member, my interest in research, particularly in agriculture. I am surprised that you are proposing to withdraw 100,000 euros from the programme "Applied research and innovation in agriculture" and transfer them to the action "Development and transfer in agriculture". It seems to me that the amendment is a little "upside down"! If your amendment is to emphasise that CASDAR's appropriations need to be increased, I would like to point out that the ceiling was set at EUR 136 million for 2018, which is well above the level of consumption of these appropriations in 2016, which was EUR 126 million. And if the proceeds of the tax were ventured to exceed the ceiling, they would remain allocated to the CAS and would not return to the general budget. The research money remains in search. Finally, if additional financing needs were to emerge for the Development and Transfer Action, it would still be possible, by means of a transfer decree, to abundate the allocation of the action from the 776 programme by EUR 100 000. We therefore maintain the balance and affirm, in particular through our actions, our willingness to advance research in the agricultural field. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u323	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u324	If the amendment has gone up a bit oddly, it is because we are, as I said, corsed by the Constitution: if we had had more latitude, it would of course have been drafted differently. You say that the proceeds of the tax are below the ceiling. I agree, but why lower the ceiling, otherwise because Bercy asked you?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u325	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u326	Come on! You didn't do it on your own. When you have a little room for manoeuvre, you have to keep it, minister, and not accept it from the Ministry of Finance. You'll see that you'll do a lot better! However, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u327	We have completed the review of the appropriations for the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" Mission and the "Agricultural and Rural Development" Trust Account.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1036.u328	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the second part of the 2018 Finance Bill: Review of the funding of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. The meeting is adjourned.
