ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the bill ratifying Orders No. 2016-1058 of 3 August 2016 on the amendment of the rules applicable to the environmental assessment of projects, plans and programmes and No. 2016-1060 of 3 August 2016 on the reform of the procedures for ensuring public information and participation in the preparation of certain decisions which may have an impact on the environment (No. 11, 91).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u2	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u3	Madam Chair, the Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to introduce this evening, on behalf of the Government, the bill ratifying two orders made on August 3, 2016, under the so-called Macron Act, one relating to the amendment of the rules applicable to the environmental assessment of projects, plans and programs, and the other to reform procedures to ensure public information and participation in the development of certain decisions that may have an impact on the environment. Last Tuesday, during their consideration in the Committee on Sustainable Development, 20 amendments were discussed and 12 were adopted. I thank all the members of the committee for their work, as well as the rapporteur Jean-Marc Zulesi, whose reflection has enabled the text to evolve positively. In a moment, we will have an opportunity to extend our discussions by considering some 40 amendments, which is certainly proof that, even if the Government sometimes submits orders, parliamentarians retain a true role as co-builders of the law through the right of amendment. Let us return without further delay to the details of the presentation of these two orders. The first concerns the amendment of the rules applicable to the environmental assessment of projects, plans and programmes, in accordance with Community law. Why ratify this order? First of all, it is a matter of complying with European law, thanks to the Order transposing the new Directive 2014/ 52/EU on the environmental assessment of projects. In particular, it helps to define evaluation criteria to better take into account health, biodiversity, climate change or the visual impact of projects on cultural heritage and the landscape. It also makes it possible to separate the training and assessment phases from certain environmental procedures at the local level. Above all, it makes simplification for project promoters while strengthening the protection of our environment. This brings us back to the spirit that led the then Minister of Economy, Emmanuel Macron, when we examined the bill for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities. This simplification and protection can be found in three concrete aspects. The first is the simplification of impact assessment procedures. Projects will now be apprehended as a whole, including in the event of time and space splitting and the multiplicity of contractors. This means that an impact assessment will be carried out at one time for each project and not by procedure. This is the first time that the silo logic has been broken, adding time to the deadline to the detriment of the overall vision of the environmental authority. The second aspect is the development of the so-called "case-by-case" procedures of raising the level of environmental requirements and allowing the environmental authority – often the deconcentrated services of the State, sometimes the central government – to process these requests in shorter periods of time. The third aspect is the introduction of a new nomenclature for projects with a strong environmental footprint for which an environmental assessment is targeted by a decree issued by the Council of State. Finally, the work carried out in commission allowed to translate into the order the triptych "avoid, reduce, compensate" – ERC – dear to Mrs Barbara Pompili and consecrated by the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes. Since the drafting of the order was prior to the adoption of the law, it was necessary to upgrade the order; I know that a number of similar amendments have been tabled on several benches in the House. The second order we submit to your vote, ladies and gentlemen, relates to information and public participation in the development of certain decisions that may have an impact on the environment. Why ratify this Macron Order? This was first of all a response from the government of the time, taken over by the government of Édouard Philippe, to a change of mentality in our society illustrated by the tragedy of Sivens. Learning to waste time ahead of a project or procedure so as not to lose time: this is the spirit of common sense that underpins the philosophy of the text that we are presenting tonight. Upstream consultation of our citizens helps to remove concerns, to demonstrate pedagogy and dialogue, and possibly to respond to their doubts and fears. In line with the spirit of the Aarhus Convention and Article 7 of the Environment Charter, this Ordinance creates new rights in response to a genuine demand from our citizens who wish to participate more and even be involved in the drafting of decisions which may have an impact on the environment, whether they feel concerned about its protection, whether they are aware of it or even take a position of deep mistrust and doubt the legitimacy or efficiency of the procedures provided by the public authorities. It is therefore up to us to ensure that our citizens can participate and, above all, that they can do so at the right time. Secondly, it is not only about protecting the environment, but also about freeing project promoters, both private and public. The balance between these two requirements – protecting and releasing – is a principle dear to the government of Édouard Philippe and desired by the Head of State. This order provides project promoters with more visibility prior to the procedure and allows them to come to grips with problems to deal with them as soon as possible. We will come back to that, because this respectful philosophy also inspires the bill on the right to error that will be presented to Parliament in the near future. In concrete terms, this ordinance establishes new rights for citizens in an unprecedented way: a right of access to relevant information aimed at making the participation of every citizen effective; a right to request the initiation of a participation procedure under conditions which we will specify in a moment; a right to have reasonable time to make comments and proposals; Above all – and there is potentially the greatest novelty – a right to have a real follow-up of the consultation and a positive or negative feedback on the observations made. Such a right, which did not exist, is simply a sign of respect for the contributing citizen. These new rights call for new forms of consultation. The result is a series of important new developments that will appear in our law if you agree, ladies and gentlemen. The first new feature is that the CNDP – the National Commission for Public Debate – will necessarily be seized of the desirability of the debate for national plans and programmes subject to environmental change. Previously, only very large projects with a cost of more than EUR 300 million were involved. The second innovation is the extension of the referral to the CNDP for major projects, i.e. those with a cost of between 150 and 300 million euros, currently made public by the contractors or by the public person responsible for the project, which indicate their decision whether or not to refer the matter to the CNDP and then inform it of their planned participation. With this order, citizens now have a right of referral to the CNDP on these major projects. The threshold has been set at 10,000 citizens of the European Union, which is a major innovation. The third innovation is the opening up of the right of citizens' initiative to projects under the control of public or private works initially receiving at least 10 million euros of public money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u4	What never happens!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u5	An amendment by your rapporteur, discussed in committee, provides for a reduction of this threshold to EUR 5 million. In considering the amendments, we will once again have the opportunity to debate the lowering of the threshold of petitioners applicable to the right of citizens' initiative. Without wishing to anticipate our discussion, however, it seems to me that we have found a compromise, a balance that makes the right of citizens' initiative truly executable or at least likely to be sought directly by our fellow citizens. As a reminder, the right of citizens' initiative is open to 20 per cent of the population registered in the municipalities within the scope of the declaration of intent or to 10 per cent of the population registered in the departments or regions where all or part of the territory mentioned in the declaration is located, to a regional, departmental or municipal council under the law of the local authorities or to one of the many environmental protection associations approved at national level. In addition, our exchanges in committee have allowed us to extend to four months instead of two the time limit for exercising a right of initiative, which is a step forward, especially for our citizens who are furthest from public decisions and procedures. The fourth innovation is the evolution of consultations in national public debates. The Ordinance makes it possible to hold a national public debate by opening the referral to 500,000 citizens of the European Union or to 60 deputies or senators or to the Government on a draft reform of a public policy with a significant effect on the environment or spatial planning. This threshold of referral has been the subject of a first debate in committee and I have no doubt that we will come back to it later. Such a threshold corresponds to that laid down in the Organic Law of 29 June 2010 allowing referral to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC. A workforce of 500,000 citizens is easily mobilised, especially at Internet time. This new referral entails a real responsibility of the State, which will have to publish the lessons learned from the debate and its follow-up. However, these new rights must not block project promoters, and they will not block them. The balance between liberation and protection must always be sought. The CNDP will ensure compliance with procedures and the quality of consultation and discussion. It is to her that the role of organiser of the consultations has been assigned. It therefore plays a central role in this system. These new forms of consultation have forced us to further regulate the role of the guarantor, which will be directly designated by the CNDP. Several amendments discussed in committee made it possible to clarify its tasks, including the dissemination to the public of the expertise presented by stakeholders in the participation procedure. Some of the amendments tabled by the REM Group give the guarantor a genuine role as intermediary and facilitator of the debate. Such consultations or debates will have to meet the demands of a modern state with a necessary dematerialization. I have heard the doubts expressed by some Members, particularly for rural areas. The digital transition, including on these issues, must be accompanied, and the CNDP will ensure that it does not exclude citizens from the debate. If necessary, paper consultation will always be possible. Such consultations will also have to take place within a reasonable time frame. This is a necessity for project promoters, who must have visibility; It's a necessity to avoid litigation. Therefore, prior consultation will never exceed three months and the duration of the public survey will be reduced from thirty to fifteen days for projects not covered by the impact assessment requirement. Finally, I will say a word about the method by which these two ordinances were developed. This ratification bill is primarily the result of a rich consultation within the specialized commission of the National Energy Transition Council – CNTE – led by Senator Alain Richard and former Minister of Defence, with fifty participants of various qualities and backgrounds. This has led to a broad consensus, as I explained in committee. At the end of the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, we achieved real balance by taking the text further, without ever breaking the consensus and the subtle initial balance. We took care of it together; on behalf of the Government, I am grateful. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] I therefore propose that you exercise the same skill and wisdom this evening in order to put in place an initial assessment of the application of these two ordinances. It will allow us, within two or three years, to measure the impact of this text and then make any changes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u6	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u7	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, the bill to ratify the two orders we are considering today is the result of a procedure provided for in section 38 of the Constitution, which allows Parliament to debate ahead of the scope of the delegation of the legislative field which it grants to the Government at the time of authorization, but also to debate the substance of the texts when the ordinances are ratified. The "Macron" Act of 2015, for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities, empowered the Government to make orders for several measures relating to the environmental code and the urban planning code. Six orders were made on the basis of this authorization. Two of them are subject to our ratification this evening, which will give their legislative value, thereby stabilising our right. More than 20 amendments have been tabled in committee, 16 of them on my initiative. I would like here to welcome all its members, who have made it possible to change these ordinances in the direction of greater access to new rights created for the benefit of citizens and civil society actors. I would like to acknowledge the excellent work of the administrators, who helped and supported us, including evenings and weekends. Finally, let me welcome the negotiation of the Secretary of State, which allowed the initial text to evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u8	Don't throw any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u9	Order 2016-1060 provides a new definition of the purposes of citizen participation in the preparation of public decisions, based on Article 7 of the Environmental Charter. Four objectives are set: to improve the quality of public decision-making and to contribute to its democratic legitimacy; ensure the preservation of a healthy environment for present and future generations; raising public awareness of environmental protection; improving and diversifying environmental information. Order 2016-1060 modifies the jurisdiction of the CNDP by extending its scope to national plans and programmes; It redefines the objectives of the public debate or the prior consultation which the national commission may organise. This order explicitly cites the so-called "zero option" option: the contractor is clearly required to present "alternative solutions, including the lack of implementation of the project". Colleagues, this is a major step forward! In addition, Order 2016-1060 amends the terms of reference for referral to the CNDP: now, 10,000 European Union nationals residing in France can seize it. This is also a step forward in terms of citizen participation. The Ordinance defines and regulates the procedure for prior consultation. Distinguished from the public debate, this concerns smaller projects, plans and programmes. This procedure, which has until now been dealt with too quickly in the environmental code, is now well defined and its duration is between 15 days and 3 months. Prior consultation may be carried out on a voluntary basis by the contractor or be imposed by the competent authority to authorise a project. Essentially, the Ordinance introduces a new right of initiative, which is open to the public to request the representative of the State to organize a prior consultation on a project, plan or programme subject to environmental assessment, where no consultation is provided for by the CNDP, the contracting authority or the public authority. In the text submitted to us by the Government, this procedure concerned only projects exceeding a threshold of public expenditure or public subsidies of EUR 10 million. In committee, we have lowered this threshold to EUR 5 million, thereby significantly increasing access to this new right. I have no doubt that with such a threshold, the project of the Sivens dam would have been the subject of extensive consultation, which would probably have allowed the opposition to be appeased. This right of initiative is open to 20 per cent of the population identified by the municipalities concerned in the declaration of intention, to 10 per cent of the population identified by the department or region concerned, to a territorial authority or to recognized national, regional or departmental associations. The committee's work has extended the time limit for citizens to take advantage of this right of initiative by two months. It seemed almost impossible to bring together as many citizens within two months of the publication of the declaration of intent. We would have thus enshrined a right that our compatriots could not have exercised. A period of four months has seemed more relevant to us in cases where the initiative is carried out by the citizens. The Government has expressed its agreement on this point. In order to ensure the transparency and relevance of public decisions authorising projects with an impact on the environment, the Commission has extended to six months the period during which it is possible to challenge a public participation procedure for procedural or procedural errors. Environmental law thus aligns itself with what prevails in urban planning for the challenge of territorial coherence schemes – SCOT – or local urban planning plans – PLU. This order also defines the role of the guarantor. The Commission, in its work, has made it even more clear in order to move towards greater independence of the latter and better dissemination of information. We have endeavoured to ensure that the choice of guarantors can only be made from the national list of guarantors, drawn up and published by the CNDP, which is responsible for paying them. The CNDP will be empowered to remove any guarantor who has failed to meet its obligations from this list. It will assume the financial burden of any additional expertise requested by itself or by the guarantor. With regard to complementary expertise, the Commission has ensured that the guarantor has an obligation to ensure the dissemination of all the expertise submitted by the stakeholders. Finally, when the guarantor receives a request for a technical study or additional expertise, it remains free not to forward the request to the CNDP, but must justify its choice. This order expands the scope for referral to the CNDP when it comes to a reform of a public policy that has a significant impact on the environment. The Government, 60 deputies, 60 senators or 500,000 European Union nationals residing in France can seize it. If this is a step forward, I consider this last threshold to be too high. By comparison, the European Citizens' Initiative, which invites the European Commission to submit a legislative proposal, must be supported by 1 million European citizens, from at least 7 of the 28 countries in the Union. Signatures must be collected in less than a year. These are more flexible conditions that the Government could draw on. In fact, it alone has the power to lower this threshold, since MEPs cannot aggravate a public office. Order 2016-1058 is part of a pre-litigation procedure initiated against France by the European Commission, which complains to the French authorities that it has not completed the transposition of a 2011 directive known as the "project directive". The Ordinance contains significant progress, including systematic consultation with local authorities, in addition to the environmental authority, and measures to simplify procedures. Simplifying and clarifying the applicable rules, while making them more in line with European law and maintaining a high level of environmental protection, are the objectives of the Ordinance. Again, the work of the committee has made a decisive step forward on a point which, I know, was a source of concern to many of us. Our amendments have made it possible to re-establish in the ordinance the sequence "avoid, reduce, compensate" in such a demanding way as in the law of 8 August 2016 for the recovery of biodiversity. In a more ambitious way than European law, French law thus clearly establishes that compensation for environmental damage is a response that must be considered only after avoidance measures have been put in place and then reduced. We can congratulate ourselves on that. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] It is therefore a text that respects the rights of citizens, the environment, but also the necessary development of projects and investments – a balanced text, in short – that is proposed for your ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u10	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u11	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning has been referred to the bill ratifying two orders of 3 August 2016 on environmental assessment, and on information and public participation on decisions likely to have an impact on the environment. With these two orders, nearly sixty articles of the Environmental Code are completed, amended or created. I would like to pay tribute to the work carried out by our rapporteur, Jean-Marc Zulesi, who has engaged in the study of these complex, sometimes arid, devices. His work as rapporteur and then in the committee illustrates how the procedure for the orders provided for in Article 38 of the Constitution does not in any way dispossess Parliament, particularly at the time of ratification. We see this today and Mr Zulesi's report, as well as the amendments tabled in committee, bear witness to this. Of the 20 amendments submitted, 12 were adopted. The Secretary of State recalled that this procedure, contrary to the views expressed by some, did allow parliamentarians to amend the orders. It also leaves room for consultation and consultation. In fact, Mr Pancher rightly pointed out in committee: such sensitive subjects required intensive upstream work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u12	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u13	Just compliment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u14	I would stress one point: these new procedures were not designed to curb initiatives, but, on the contrary, to develop them. They are based on the strong and unwavering conviction of this new majority that initiatives and projects must be trusted as a result of upstream consultation and information sharing. Too many examples prove to us, unfortunately, that the existence of upstream consultation tools would have made it possible to unlock dossiers much faster, and to avoid human and environmental tragedies. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I am thinking of the Sivens dam and the tragic death of Rémi Fraisse, but also of the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport project: that is why it is essential to engage in a genuine dialogue upstream. The Commission worked with three objectives in mind. The first was to make the right to information and consultation more effective in the text. On some points, the text of the Ordinance "brings on" the proceedings with excess, accentuating the risk that citizens might feel dispossessed of this right to participation. There is nothing more harmful to democracy than to promote a right that cannot be exercised in practice. The Commission's second objective was to promote greater transparency around projects. Otherwise, citizens do not understand the refusals that may be opposed to their demands, which gives rise to mistrust, suspicion and ultimately resentment. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Finally, the third objective was to simplify and harmonise. It was also a titanic task to unify the procedures of the environmental code, and I hope that in future the Committee on Sustainable Development will take its full part in this simplification work. For the time being, the Commission has endeavoured to simplify the arrangements provided for in the two ordinances, proposing to align the deadlines for contesting the procedures for prior consultation with those laid down in the urban planning code. In pursuit of this same objective of harmonisation, the Commission has also – and this subject is particularly dear to me – included in the order the exact terms of the sequence "avoid, reduce and compensate for the impacts on the environment" as adopted in the law of 8 August 2016 for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes. The wording resulting from this law is indeed more ambitious than the one originally adopted here and provides for a hierarchy. First of all, we must avoid and then, if this is not possible, reduce biodiversity damage and, finally, compensate those that could not be avoided or reduced. Beyond simply harmonising the system, the adoption of these amendments certainly reflects the commitment of the new majority to the preservation of biodiversity, and I particularly welcome this. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I am also pleased to note that there has been an abstention on the bill, which I will allow myself to describe as "benevolent" on the part of the Republican Group, including the Vice-Chair of the Jean-Marie Sermier Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u15	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u16	Here, therefore, are the objectives pursued by the committee through the amendments it has adopted. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank the administrators who excel in their work. I particularly thank Secretary of State Sébastien Lecornu, who has engaged in a particularly constructive dialogue on the proposed amendments that we have drafted, which augurs for fruitful collaboration between the Government and the Commission on Sustainable Development, which I have the honour to chair over the next few years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u17	In the general debate, Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u18	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, whom I thank for the kindness of her remarks, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the applause which has punctuated the various speeches give the feeling of a friendly and consensual atmosphere. Even President Jean-Marie Sermier was greeted! I come to my point and I will not hide from you, Mr Secretary of State, that it seemed to me at first to be at least incongruous, or even provocative, to go through the ratification of ordinances to implement the environmental dialogue. But after reflection and passing this first defensive reflex, I readily acknowledge that this text is the result of a real concerted effort that I can only welcome. In addition, the two orders in question are based on a long dialogue with all stakeholders, which gives them a successful character. We are pleased to note that the environmental dialogue is finally tending to acquire its letters of nobility, although innumerable progress remains to be made in many areas. I'll come back. This progress, made or to come, has been born from the mistrust of our fellow citizens, but also from the rise in the level of training and information. This is a new democratic, managerial and social issue, so much the concertation makes it possible to re-establish the social bond that has been lost in our society. These steps are also the result of a long process, constantly revived by large ununderstood projects and the sources of major polemics and even serious accidents. Public debates have taken root in a climate of protest: oppositions, particularly to the TGV Mediterranean, have in their time led to their institutionalization. While the reflections on environmental dialogue have been under way for the last 20 years – the Grenelle de l'Environnement represents a major milestone – it remains that the work more specifically linked to the modernization of this dialogue, and which has foreshadowed the ordinances that we are considering today, is directly rooted in the drama of Sivens. This tragic event led to the creation of a specialized commission of the National Council of Ecological Transition – CNTE – chaired by Senator Alain Richard, to reflect on the democratization of environmental dialogue. This commission, based on the multi-month hearing of many actors, carried out a very good work which ended with the submission of a report entitled Environmental Democracy: Debate and Decision, in June 2015. So there will inevitably be, both in collective memory and in our environmental procedures, one before and one after Sivens. Before Sivens, it is a right of atrophied participation on environmental subjects, marked by the absence of upstream participation mechanisms for plans and programmes as well as for smaller projects or for large projects, by the lack of consultation, by the length of time taken for public debate and public inquiry, which could last several years – Notre-Dame-des-Landes is an eloquent example of this, among many others? The lack of mechanisms for mediation and conciliation processes could also be deplored. Concertation was of course possible, but, in the absence of guarantors or professionals, it was not possible to move forward by being a judge and a party. The post-Sevens is therefore a major step forward for participatory democracy thanks to the ordinances of 3 August 2016. A citizen initiative right is created for both infrastructure projects and a number of public policy reform projects. The CNDP is mandatory for national plans and programmes. He is given a conciliation mechanism to avoid conflicts. A national list of guarantors of consultation is set up to develop public participation throughout the decision-making process. Finally, the generalisation of the dematerialisation of the public inquiry makes it possible to modernise the procedures. That's not all, but the gesture counts. Both orders have the merit of fully participating in securing projects by increasing their acceptability. It is therefore gratifying that the text discussed today anchors in the marble the information of the public and its integration, within a reasonable time, both upstream and downstream, into the decision-making process. The credibility and future of many of our infrastructure projects depend on it. This text was co-built with all relevant stakeholders. It is not possible, however, to welcome the co-construction of a text while at the same time bringing about a gust of amendments. Either we trust the dialogue by ensuring that it continues to its end, and we simply take note of the resulting decision, or we disagree and table amendments. This is not the case today. The ordinances struck a balance between divergent positions, which was not obvious. Various actors have already anticipated the implementation of these ordinances by taking ownership steps. However, any changes that may occur may complicate the work already carried out. A number of the arrangements resulting from these orders are already operational. This is particularly the case with the "guarantors". The pool is constituted, the first guarantors have been formed and consultations have been launched. It would be a mistake to question them. Finally, any changes to the orders would result in delays in the launch of the projects concerned. Do we want to take this risk? Mr Secretary of State, rather than amending this text today, our group, Les Constructifs, has submitted a few proposals to you, to which you have responded in part. Thus, it would be useful to take a step back and evaluate the implementation of these ordinances in two years' time. The time will then come to study the improvements to be made to these devices. Similarly, work should be done in the medium term to harmonize environmental and urban codes. It turns out that the simplification of participation requires, not a lowering of the standard for environmental dialogue, but an extension of the standard to the urban code. The aim is to minimise future procedures for the rapid and effective application of the arrangements provided for in these orders. Beyond this text, let us acknowledge, there is far from lipcutting the need to involve our fellow citizens and their organizations in all our decision-making processes. Freed from a system of republican monarchy and drugged by an unbridled consumer society, the inhabitants of our country want to take refuge behind an authoritarian and effective state, while refusing to be put before the established fact. The 2017 Harris interactive barometer shows how high expectations are in terms of consultation. We must therefore go faster and further: the territorialization of all national consultation initiatives is part of these requirements: yesterday the national conference of territories, tomorrow the general states of food, in September the foundations of mobility. The involvement of the public concerned in the evolution of the major local public services – maternity, college – as well as the major societal issues, must be systematic. The examples of "doing better" are legion. In the absence of a minister responsible for participation, Secretary of State, I address you, who have preempted part of the subject. Mr Secretary of State, let us hope that the quinquennium, as the President of the Republic has suggested, will focus on this colossal project, to which our group is attached. [[Applause on the benches of the LC, REM and MODEM groups]] In the meantime, the Constructive Group will, of course, vote on this bill while being particularly vigilant about how you will monitor it, both in terms of its evaluation and its evolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u19	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u20	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on long-term investments if we are gathered in this House in the summer torpor, it is that two years ago, in a comparable torpor, appeared in the Official Journal the provision enabling the Government to take the two orders that are proposed for our consideration this evening, one on environmental assessment, the other on environmental dialogue. It was prominent in the law for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities, still known as the Macron law, which should satisfy part of this assembly. There is "prescription" and "prescription": a good use of prescriptions and a use that – as we have seen recently – can generate some criticism. If these ordinances seem to us to be nice, it is first of all because they come from far away. They are based first and foremost on various principles and references, including the Aarhus Convention. This Convention is a reference on a European scale and many texts in our positive law are strongly inspired by some of the principles it lays down. Another point of reference is the Environmental Charter, which has constitutional value – it should satisfy another part of these benches – and which enshrines the principle of environmental dialogue in its Article 7. I am also thinking of the work done during the states-general of environmental law modernization, led by Delphine Batho, following which Jacques Vernier presented a report on the modernization of environmental assessment. Much of his recommendations have been reflected in the orders we are considering. Finally, it should not be forgotten that documentation on environmental dialogue and environmental assessment is sufficiently provided. The second reason for making these orders sympathetic is that they are strongly inspired by parliamentary work, first and foremost by the mission entrusted by Ségolène Royal to Senator Alain Richard. It had to respond to an emergency – dramatic events – but also to the questions raised by the reactions of the population, in particular that of the acceptability of projects, whatever their nature and the bearer. Alain Richard's work, which was presented at the CNTE, was welcomed in part. A number of the recommendations contained therein also feature prominently in the ordinances. I will also mention the bill introduced in February 2016 by my former colleague, Sabine Buis, which aimed to define more precisely what is known as public participation and the scope of action for environmental assessment. This bill inspires three amendments that we have tabled, not to break the balance that you have recalled, but to be constructive, we too,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u21	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u22	... to bring our stone to the building and to allow, thanks to this more precise definition, to give more flesh and consistency to the objective that you pursue, that of improving positive law in these matters. These orders also seem to us to be nice because they are an opportunity to transpose European directives. They allow us to be brought into line with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which has often led France to be pointed out. In this area, as in many others, we must get to the level of the countries of northern Europe, which we sometimes look at with the eyes of Chimène, and which remind us of the extent to which we must continue the effort. They also seem sympathetic to us because they enshrine a fundamental principle, contained in the law on the recovery of biodiversity, the sequence "avoid, reduce, compensate". Finally, we can only find it pleasant, too, that they have gathered a relative consensus within the CNTE itself, which includes representatives of several environmental associations. While some have expressed the wish to go further, many have welcomed this work, which will enable us tomorrow to be in tune with what is being done in northern Europe. Since they are friendly, our group will vote on the orders, but it will propose the three amendments that I have mentioned in order to arrive at a much more precise definition and scope. To conclude, you will allow me two digressions. The first, which is not unrelated to environmental dialogue, concerns the future of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. The President of the Republic has, it seems to me, called him to become the "chamber of the future". Indeed, it is important that the environmental dialogue takes place in the context of projects – I welcome the provisions that allow these projects to be examined as early as possible – but the dialogue and evaluation must be permanent. We know the richness and quality of the EESC's reports: it is up to us to deal with them. On 11 July, the Prime Minister said to the EESC that he wanted to make co-construction happen, in particular so that the energy transition could move forward with a certain degree of certainty. If the energy transition is to succeed, we must be able to involve the public and the private sector. The EESC is the ideal place to make this co-construction happen and to chart this path. My second digression concerns renewable energy. We all agree on these banks to adhere to the important renewable energy production target set by the Energy Transition and Green Growth Act. The 14th axis of the Climate Plan, presented by Minister Nicolas Hulot, is an opportune addition to this objective. What do we see? It is more difficult to produce renewable energy in our country than elsewhere in Europe. To build a renewable energy production site, it takes between seven and eight years in France and three or four years in other European countries. The obstacles to the development of renewable energies are numerous and well known: the lack of readability or visibility has been mentioned repeatedly. While financial commitments are considerable, while the level of mobilization of resources, public or private, is important, the different actors need greater visibility on long-term investments. We have met this requirement in part in the Energy Transition Act by proposing a number of tools. Tax systems are also essential, and they must be maintained. I am thinking in particular of the energy transition tax credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u23	Very useful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u24	I am thinking of everything that can help send positive signals to those who want to build renewable energy projects. [[Applause on several benches of the NG, REM and MODEM groups]] Dialogue and evaluation are part of it. These orders will remove a barrier to the production of renewable energy. If only for this reason, we will ratify them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u25	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u26	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u27	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when you are asking us to ratify orders on public participation and information on projects which have an impact on the environment or on human health, I would like to start by reminding you of a few points of context. First of all, we disapprove of the method chosen: it seems to us quite ironic to legislate by order on a project to increase democracy on environmental issues. Once again, we are deprived of the necessary debate so that the new rights granted to citizens are not fictitious. As you recalled, Secretary of State, the desire to change the terms of public consultation followed the case of the Sivens Dam. This is an emblematic case of the environmental and human consequences of a project that is contrary to the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] At this moment, as we did in committee, we invite you, as an antidote to violence, to remember the face and name of the young activist Rémi Fraisse who left his life there. We say this forcefully: it took a death to take into account the popular mobilizations against unnecessary projects and the demands of those who can only ruin everything. That's not acceptable! Let us live up to the ecological emergency. Where is the protection of whistleblowers in this text, which should enable citizens to be informed? What are the guarantees of information and effective public participation and not media smoke? I am going to break the consensus and unanimity, but the group of France that is not going to vote on the bill as it stands, for a number of reasons. The first reason, which we have been many to mention in committee, is the threshold of 500,000 citizens needed to bring the matter before the National Commission for Public Debate. This too high threshold makes the effectiveness of this citizen's right more than hypothetical. What is the point of creating rights that we cannot exercise? With regard to thresholds, the CNDP itself had advocated lowering the threshold of EUR 10 million for projects for which citizens could request consultation. It stressed the need to prevent contractors from escaping their obligations and public debate, by underestimating the impact, scale or cost of their projects or by saving them. At this point, I cannot ignore the discussion that took place in the Committee on Sustainable Development: while there was a relative consensus on the issue of thresholds, the Secretary of State, Mr Lecornu, stressed the risk of too much inflow of projects studied before the CNDP, and the material impossibility of facing them in terms of the means available to this structure. To explain this to you more clearly and perhaps more directly, the Government accepts that the citizens take care of the environment, but it refuses to allocate another penny! You understand that we are challenging this logic: we need means, failing which this mechanism will become a fake commission. Second reason why we oppose this text as it stands, the large unnecessary projects already under way, such as the burial of nuclear waste in Bure, the airport of Notre-Dame-des-Landes or the Lyon-Turin high-speed line, whose social and environmental impacts are nevertheless very important, are not targeted. Finally, the third reason is that orders increase the number of projects subject to environmental assessment on a case-by-case basis, not on a systematic basis. The environmental emergency requires serious action, not a "not seen, not taken" logic, which aims to reduce the level of control of construction sites. I wanted to give you an example of a CNDP information package of June 2016 on the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport project that clearly shows the shortcomings I have just mentioned. The file contained sixteen pages facing the arguments of opponents and supporters of the project, summarized in six points each, but it did not contain any independent study – which the Commission regretted. It stated that it did not have access to the annexes to the concession contract of the new airport – is that the information? – and to have lost a document from the Regional Directorate of the Environment, Planning and Housing in the direction of the opponents. Finally, the CNDP report does not mention the suspicion of a conflict of interest against the prefect of Loire-Atlantique who had authorised the project before leaving for Vinci, the main interested person of the project. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] At a time when the climate is changing one hundred and seventy times faster because of human activity, these ordinances are not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u28	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u29	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, come to the point directly, because, with regard to these two orders, we have to repeat a first point which must be made: it is, of course, usual for orders to come into force before they are approved by Parliament, but this raises and will always raise the question of the role of the elected representatives. The entry into force of the provisions before us can only hinder our Assembly in its ability to upset the general economy and the substance of the texts before it. However, this does not prevent us from taking note of the improvements made to the text in committee on matters relating to public debate and prior consultation. This was recalled: the reduction of the threshold of public expenditure from EUR 10 million to EUR 5 million allowing the exercise of the new right of citizens' initiative, the extension of the period for exercising this right from two to four months, the extension to six months of the period during which illegality for procedural or procedural reasons may be invoked, and the systematisation of the study of alternatives to projects, including that of renunciation of the project, all of these measures go in the right direction. Nevertheless, these ordinances remain deeply ambivalent. With regard to the Order to Amend the Rules Applicable to the Environmental Assessment of Projects, a first finding is required. The amendment of many criteria and thresholds by the text and the corresponding decree effectively exempts from impact assessment a large number of projects previously subject to the case-by-case procedure. At the same time, the reform is shifting many projects from systematic evaluation to case-by-case review. Thus, a process is established for decommissioning projects depending on whether or not they are subject to the requirements of the impact assessment. This means that compliance with the principle of non-regression of environmental law will depend tomorrow on the particular vigilance of the State services on the ground. Of course, we do not question the probity of the State services, but, given the increasing number of cases to be dealt with under this procedure and the unfortunately declining means of services, one can legitimately question their ability to always carry out a thorough analysis of the projects and their potential impacts on the environment. Environmental protection associations have also expressed concern about pressure to exempt economically strategic projects from study. Let us not forget, in fact, that one of the stated objectives of the reform is "to shorten deadlines and reduce costs". To summarize the situation, we will have, on the one hand, for projects that will remain subject to the requirements of the impact assessment, undeniable improvements and, on the other hand, a situation in which most projects will be freed from these requirements, in order to facilitate and speed up their implementation. We cannot therefore satisfy ourselves, Mr Secretary of State, with the so-called subtle balance that you would have found, which consists of controlling, on the one hand, and allowing more to be done, on the other. The reform of the environmental dialogue calls for similar remarks. While all the proposed provisions, including the extension of the referral to the CNDP, represent a democratic step forward, the eligibility criteria for facilities to enter the referral area remain very restrictive, including the financial thresholds, the implementation of which deserves one of the main criticisms that can be addressed to this text. Neither the Aarhus Convention nor the European directives which decline it and provide for public participation allow participation to be conditional on such criteria. Moreover, the Court of Justice of the European Union has already ruled that environmental assessments should be subject to purely financial thresholds. Finally, it should be noted that, while the text now provides for an extension to six months of the period during which illegality for procedural or procedural reasons may be invoked, you are in no way seeking to curb the jurisprudence of the Council of State, which is now systematically applied by the administrative courts and which effectively reduces the number of procedural defects which may constitute grounds for annulment of administrative decisions. With this text, we feel that the environmental emergency is still not fully understood. We must have the audacity to strike a much more demanding balance in environmental decision-making. Every twenty minutes, in France, we create the equivalent of four football fields of agricultural land. We no longer count the number of purely aberrant projects. Take the example of EuropaCity, in the Triangle district of Gonesse. The Auchan group wants to build a huge commercial and leisure complex in the middle of a new business district spread over 300 hectares of very fertile agricultural land. He should see a covered ski trail, an exhibition hall, and 400 luxury shops coming out of the ground. What is the meaning of this over-concrete, which, from commercial areas to motorway bypasses, from factory farms to aseptic parks, swallows every seven years the equivalent of the surface of a French department? According to the Observatoire national de la biodiversité, in metropolitan France, an average of 67000 hectares per year were destroyed by artificialisation between 2006 and 2014. It is therefore urgent to put an end to these destructions, which have irreversible consequences for biodiversity and the environment, and an equally important impact on the well-being of our citizens, particularly in the field of health. It must be recognised that, despite the increasing resources allocated to environmental protection, the public authorities are unable to stop this spiral because of the lack of political will. In 2004, France made a commitment, as part of the national biodiversity strategy, to halt the loss of biodiversity in 2010. Today, all indicators are red. The Grenelle de l'Environnement had set a target of 25 % market share for alternative modes of transport for goods by 2022. This rate is still only 12%. The proactive plan for the development of rail and river transport is at the dock – if I may say: these modes of transport continue to lose share of traffic. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, Nicolas Hulot, now announces general states of agriculture and food, accompanied by an action plan for soil protection and food sovereignty. The Minister also provides a foundation for mobility, as a floor on the major transportation issue. Of course, we agree with these directions, but this bill is not in that direction. We will therefore make our vote conditional on the acceptance of our amendments, which are intended, on the one hand, to reclassify into the scope of projects subject to impact studies any project which may have a significant impact on the environment and, on the other hand, to improve the sanctioning of procedural defects by the courts, so that they are more effective against administrative decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u30	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u31	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have met today to discuss a text that relates to two main priorities of the Government and the majority: local participatory democracy and the environment. The purpose of this bill is to ratify two ordinances. The first concerns the information and participation of citizens in decisions affecting them. The second objective is to improve the environmental assessment of projects. Since 1995, our country has adopted rules on this matter with the Barnier Act, which, inter alia, established the National Commission for Public Debate. These rules were strengthened in 2002, before being endorsed in the Environmental Charter, which was endorsed by the Constitution in 2005. If the law of 27 December 2012 provided for the application of the provisions of the Charter, we must now recognize the difficulty of carrying out some major infrastructure projects. The quality of the upstream debate is often called into question. This has recently been illustrated by several projects. We think, like other speakers before me, of the Sivens dam, the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport and many other projects, which, although in accordance with the consultation procedures, remain difficult to accept in social terms and have been able to lead to human tragedies. These procedures also create unpredictability for project promoters, which ultimately affects the employment and attractiveness of our country. In the face of these difficulties, it was essential to improve the organisation of debates on the one hand and the way citizens participate on the other. It is, in essence, the contribution of the two ordinances that we are considering today. The first order is intended to improve public information and participation. The text first deals with the mechanism upstream of the public decision. It reaffirms the principle of systematic referral of the CNDP for major projects – more than 300 million euros – and improves the scheme by providing for the presentation by the contractor of all alternative solutions, including the lack of implementation of the project, called "zero option". For large projects with a cost of between EUR 150 million and EUR 300 million, the text makes it possible for a citizen referral to the CNDP through 10000 major European Union nationals residing in France. For smaller projects, programmes and plans – more than EUR 10 million – the text innovates with the citizens' initiative, which allows citizens of the territory concerned to ask for debate on the project. The Order also provides conciliation jurisdiction to the CNDP and creates a competition fund to fund additional expertise. Finally, the text sets out, prior to the decision, a citizen referral for public policy reform projects which have a significant effect on the environment or spatial planning. The required threshold is, as it stands, 500,000 European Union nationals residing in France. Following the public decision, the order also improves the public inquiry, first by simplifying it. The electronic channel thus becomes the default mode of participation. It is also possible to conduct a single survey for multiple projects, which reduces the duration of the survey. The text also allows for better information, guaranteeing local display in addition to electronic information. For plans, programmes and projects that are not subject to public scrutiny, citizen participation is preserved, with the online filing of observations and proposals. Finally, for water planning and management schemes, the text expands the documents submitted for consultation and establishes a local water commission, under the control of the Prefect. The text here allows a deconcentration and simplification of the process, with an objective of efficiency. The second order concerns environmental assessment. It proposes to act in a project logic, not successive authorizations. The order strengthens the evaluation process, enriching the content of impact assessments. It simplifies the applicable rules by bringing them into line with European law. The Order also requires the transmission of the environmental assessment to the local and regional authorities concerned, which represents a significant step forward in the law. Transversally, the text provides for simplification for projects requiring multiple authorisations, with the production of a single evaluation, the criteria of which are aligned from the top. Finally, the text allows the monitoring of compliance with the requirements "avoid, reduce, compensate" – the famous ERC sequence – by strengthening the prefect's sanctioning capacity. With regard to committee work, we have identified two priorities. First, we wanted the rights created by the orders to be effective. We have thus ensured that the criteria for prior consultation, which allow citizens to request a debate on small projects, are sufficiently open to operate. We have also ensured that the newly established standard will allow contractors to carry out their projects; In other words, that the provisions of the texts under consideration do not create any disproportionate additional administrative and financial constraints. These priorities have resulted in the adoption of several amendments. We first lowered the public expenditure threshold from EUR 10 million to EUR 5 million for the initiation of prior consultation. In concrete terms, this will enable citizens, territorial executive bodies or environmental protection associations to request consultation, most often from the Prefect, on projects of EUR 5 million or more. We have also extended the time limit for citizens' right to initiative from two to four months to allow the time for mobilization. In the same spirit, the period during which illegality for procedural or procedural reasons may be invoked has been extended to six months, so as to comply with urban planning law. The role of the guarantor has also been strengthened by making his appointment mandatory in the pool of the National Commission for Public Debate. The original text allowed the contractor to choose and pay his guarantor, which we believe is contrary to the principles of transparency and independence sought. It should also be noted that the CNDP was a pioneer in this area by selecting and then training more than 200 authorized guarantors during the summer. Finally, we wanted to align the drafting of the "avoid, reduce, compensate" approach with the definition, more ambitious in our view, of the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes of 8 August 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that our work in committee has made it possible to enrich this text and to strike the right balance between the participation of citizens in decisions affecting them and the safety of project promoters. The La République en marche group supports these provisions, which must improve the quality of public decision-making and its democratic legitimacy. The resulting decisions must be respected. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I will borrow from Grégoire Lacroix: "Raising the debate very high," and I add here, making it distant from the citizen, "is often an elegant way to lose sight of it." You will have understood that our ambition is quite different. And we're happy to be able to discuss it here with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u32	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u33	Madam Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Committee, Mr. Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time since the beginning of the new Parliament that we have been considering in public sitting a bill on the environment and sustainable development. Let me therefore welcome the new ministers and secretaries of State responsible for these issues in a republican way and wish collectively good work, useful for democratic debate and for building a more environmentally friendly society. [["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] I am proud tonight to be the speaker of a political family that has worked hard for ecology. From the creation of the Ministry of the Environment by Robert Poujade in 1971 under Georges Pompidou to the creation of the National Commission for Public Debate by Michel Barnier in 1995, from the endorsement of the Charter of the Environment to the Constitution by President Chirac at the Grenelle de l'Environnement wanted by President Sarkozy, the family of the right and the center took all its part in the history of environmental progress. Ecology is a universal value. It doesn't belong to anyone. While there are, of course, differences of approach, I believe that we are all aware, on all the benches of this Assembly, of the fragility of our planet and the need to pass it on to our children and grandchildren. For the next five years, we will therefore work with seriousness and commitment for the environment. We will act, as we have often done, with common sense and pragmatism. For this, we will rely on the actors on the ground, each in its territory – in the Jura department as far as I am concerned – so that our positions and proposals are in line with the reality of things. We will act to promote real solutions, those that have a positive impact on the long term, even if we go against the current of clichés and caricatures too often conveyed in the opinion. We will defend environmental progress that goes hand in hand with human activity, as it is true that, in the past, standards have been imposed that have no effect on the environment but are certainly harmful to businesses, in particular agricultural enterprises, on the sole pretext that these standards met a fashion effect. A society that advances is a society that combines environmental preservation, economic development and human well-being. To achieve this balance, we can rely on innovation and human genius. Colleagues, we need to look at a bill ratifying two orders published in the Official Gazette on August 5. Before I turn to the substance, I would like to dwell on the form, because the use of orders is the subject of a debate in the opinion that has not escaped anyone. It is said that the ordinances allow reforms to be carried out more quickly. Above all, they make it possible to exclude Parliament from the debate and to rid newly elected Members of the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u35	It can be considered for strictly technical texts, but certainly not for major reforms such as the simplification of labour law. At this moment, we will be able to measure together the limits of this exercise since we are making orders this evening by the previous government which was authorized to take them by the previous majority. No one today feels responsible for what was decided at the time. We are therefore simply working in the name of the beautiful principle of republican continuity. On the other hand, we must note that we are going to discuss the advisability of arrangements already in place for a long time. For example, CNDP guarantors are partially recruited and even trained. It is therefore no longer seriously conceivable to give up on them now that everything is under way. Finally, let me point out that it is still paradoxical to decide by order precisely to promote democracy and the participation of citizens in decision-making. Since these remarks have been made, Madam Chair of the Commission, come to the actual content of these orders. We broadly agree with the proposed measures, as they make it possible in many ways to simplify the rules and facilitate the lives of project promoters. The first order makes it possible to comply with European law which saw with a bad eye that the prefect could be both the instructor and the decision-maker of certain procedures. It clarifies the legal definition of a project. It usefully simplifies the route of the contractors by providing for an impact assessment per project rather than by procedure. Above all, it prefers the case-by-case principle to the systematic use of assessments for facilities classified for environmental protection – ICPE. The second Ordinance aims to modernize procedures for informing and involving the public in decisions that may have an impact on the environment. A procedure for prior consultation prior to the public inquiry is introduced for projects subject to an environmental assessment of more than EUR 5 million. Citizens, local authorities and associations are given the right of initiative to initiate this prior consultation. The tools of consultation are themselves modernised, which seems to us to be a particularly positive point. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Until recently, MPs could also be elected locally, which was far from uninteresting. This allowed them, as community leaders, to have this right of initiative. Between us, how many times have we seen a public investigation book hanging out in a town hall, without receiving any comment? How many times have we welcomed an investigating commissioner alone without seeing a resident enjoy his permanence? These consultation tools had the merit of exist ing. They are too often reserved for citizens who are informed of the procedures. They therefore need to be complemented by more accessible tools, which the Internet undoubtedly represents. However, the desire to use the Internet to boost participation in public consultations requires that the digital divide be finally bridged and that high-speed broadband be accessible to all, including in rural areas, in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u36	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u37	The main reservation we make on this text concerns the concept of "significant impact" introduced by the orders. It seems blurred and subjective to us. It is not up to you, Secretary of State, that I will learn that, when it is unclear, there may be a wolf. This notion could be a source of litigation. We prefer that of significant impact which is easier to measure and has the advantage of being already present in the environmental code. More broadly, I suggest that the environmental code and the urban code should be coordinated in order to move towards a more coherent approach that would secure project promoters without removing any necessary environmental protections. By taking our amendment into account, the majority would make our right more reliable. Moreover, from a political point of view, it would give concrete expression to the repeated discourse that good ideas come from everywhere and that it is necessary to overcome political divisions in order to work well. Ladies and gentlemen, this first text examined by the Committee on Sustainable Development proposes a fair compromise between increased participation of citizens in the decision, safeguards to ensure environmental protection and the simplification of the rules for the exit of projects. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republicans will not oppose it. He hoped that the search for the right balance would continue to guide the Government's plans. I am sure that the Committee on Sustainable Development, under the able chairmanship of its chairman, will help you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u38	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u39	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, too often regarded as a variable of adjustment, presented as a distant priority and undermined by political postures, the environmental imperative must return to its place: the urgency of the 21st century. There is an urgent need, because, as everyone knows, it is about the future of our planet, our fauna, our flora, our biodiversity, whose recent surveys have shown the speed at which it deteriorates, the quality of our soils and the quality of the air we breathe. There is also an urgent need for public health and employment. The preservation of the environment in all its forms, combined with advances in research and the development of new technologies, offers us great prospects, not only for our country and our territories, but also for Europe and the world. This environmental imperative will be a priority of the quinquennium of the President of the Republic, of the action of the Government and of the groups of the majority of our assembly, to which I hope the support of the opposition parliamentarians will be added. If there is a cause that must reach consensus and avoid further politicization, it is this one. The election of Emmanuel Macron, his positions on the climate on the international stage and the first steps of the Government – I am thinking in particular of the announcements made by Nicolas Hulot, Minister of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition – have begun a paradigm shift in the minds of our fellow citizens and a part of the political class. This change is the result of a simple fact: political ecology gives way to transversal ecology. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] It is indeed a novelty for the French to see a minister of the economy hold a strong speech in favour of environmental projects. Reconciling economic development with ecology is what we must advocate and carry. It is a novelty for the French to have a minister responsible for transport whose ministerial action will never lose sight of the environmental dimension. It is a novelty for the French to see the minister of the ecological and solidarity transition on the move at the Institut national de la recherche agronomique, INRA, alongside the minister of agriculture and food, and assume loud and clear that agriculture and environment are not contradictory, but indeed complementary. It is essential that we bring these two issues together, which have been unnecessarily opposed so far. The environmental concern must irrigate the bulk of the debates that we will have in this House over the next five years. What we will not do cannot be done later. National representation must be aware of this. Small-step policy is no longer enough: this time we have to face up to our responsibilities and start a real ecological shift. [[Smile]] We do this neither by ideology nor dogmatism, but because the stakes are nothing less than saving our home. We need to regain measure in our decisions and take into account the impact of our actions on the planet, and therefore on ourselves. That's what we call "ecosophe." We need to speed up and amplify what has been done so far. The Grenelle de l'Environnement, the COP21 which led to the Paris agreement: all this makes an ambitious environmental policy possible today. We have to keep the gains, of course, fiercely, and continue the road with even more ardour. The two orders of August 3, 2016 on environmental assessment of projects and public information, which we are considering today, have also brought their share of significant advances. I will not go back to all the points in these texts – the previous speakers have been quite exhaustive – but some aspects deserve to be looked at for a moment. First, it is undeniable that these ordinances will advance the ecological cause in many ways. Bringing French law into line with European law will certainly make it possible to take better account of the issues that concern us – health, biodiversity, development – but also to offer our citizens the opportunity to seize these issues in a simpler way. We welcome the creation of new rights for citizens through the strengthening of prior consultation and the right of initiative set up prior to decisions, rather than a posteriori, once things are started, as was the case until now. Public participation in decisions affecting the environment is further enhanced by the fact that the ordinances provide for a dematerialised procedure allowing citizens to make observations directly via the Internet, which reflects a modernisation of the public inquiry better suited to our time. As you can see, simplification is not always synonymous with renunciation: here is a perfect example. These new rights for citizens are reflected in new forms of consultation. We therefore welcome the progress made in strengthening the prerogatives of the National Commission for Public Debate, a body whose usefulness is no longer to be demonstrated. The opportunity now available to him to seize national plans and programmes seems to us to be useful in resolving conflict situations. I also welcome the work of the committee, conducted under the chairmanship of Barbara Pompili, which has led to a consensus on several fundamental points. I would also like to thank Secretary of State Sébastien Lecornu for his listening and benevolence to the amendments tabled. I am thinking, for example, of the alignment, essential in our view and consensus, of the formulation of the approach "avoid, reduce, compensate" with that adopted in the law for the reconquest of diversity, instead of the previous formulation that is too vague and therefore inefficient. Among the amendments adopted, the committee called for a reduction of the ceiling of the threshold of public expenditure or subsidies from EUR 10 million to EUR 5 million to be defined by decree in the Council of State in order to regulate the new right of initiative open to the people. It has also increased the period for citizens to exercise their right of initiative from two to four months after the publication of a declaration of intent. However, the MODEM and related group will propose to go further by extending the conditions for the implementation of the right of initiative. It seems to us that the threshold of admissibility of a citizens' initiative is in most cases an insurmountable obstacle to the exercise of this right. In many cases, the threshold of 20 per cent of the population of a municipality or territory or 10 per cent of that of a department or region will discourage most of the convinced citizens who intend to take part in this general struggle for the preservation of our environment. The rights must be effective and, if they are to be effective, they must be accessible. That is why we ask that this threshold be re-evaluated and increased to 15 per cent of the population of a municipality or territory or 7.5 per cent of the population of a department or region. While some amendments could not be adopted, as the proposed provisions did not fit into the environmental code, the majority and the Government supported their meaning and objectives. This is the case in particular with the amendment by our colleagues in the La France group calling for an information report on the environmental, human and economic impacts of major projects such as Notre-Dame-des-Landes, the A45 motorway, the Lyon-Turin high-speed line, EuropaCity, the Ivry-sur-Seine incinerator project or the radioactive waste storage project in Bure. It seems to us to be simple common sense! The committee is now submitting a better-known text in open session. The MODEM and related group hopes that the national representation will be able to agree on this text, which marks a new stage in the protection of the environment and represents a step forward in the involvement of the citizen upstream of the projects. But we are calling for further action. We believe it is necessary for this upstream consultation to become the rule for our citizens to take over their territories. It is an ecological and cultural issue. Similarly, this will make the development more efficient through the involvement of those closest to the territories, as we take more care of what is close to us. I was talking earlier about the big projects that we need to monitor for compliance with environmental standards, but that concern goes far beyond that. It is the whole chain that we must make viable, from the construction with bio-sourced materials, with passive or positive energy, the vegetation of the development operations, to the work of the major operators and the action of the contractors. Communities need to be encouraged to do better. As such, we welcome the Île-de-France region initiative, which will put in place a good practice guide to assist communities in the development of intercommunal LRPs and LRPs – PLUI. Finally, we need to support projects that combine economic development, environmental concerns and land-locking. I am thinking here of course of the Seine-Nord Canal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u40	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u41	Let us be clear: the objective is not to impose an environmental tyranny, but to become aware of the challenges of our time. The MODEM and related group will always be at the side of the Government when it comes to promoting an ambitious and incentiveful ecology, much more effective and supportive than punitive ecology. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] We therefore welcome this bill to ratify the relevant ordinances and propose, by way of amendment, to go even further on the issue of citizen participation, in particular by giving full efficiency to the right of initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u42	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u43	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I will be direct, because the situation is asking for it. Whatever the conditions for public consultation on projects with an environmental impact, I do not think that the issues of land artificialization, destruction of fragile ecosystems or construction of plant farms can be simplified or reduced to a mere matter of information or access to environmental records. This is all the more true since, in practice, this right of access to information is often circumvented and must be constantly reaffirmed, as Mathilde Panot recalled earlier. With regard to the transition to a model of society that respects nature and our lives, citizens expect more. They are no longer satisfied with good intentions. Let's take the example of the factory farms I just mentioned. They fall within the scope of these projects that have an impact on the environment and on human health. And for good reason! This is a concrete illustration of the impasse in which the present model leads us: to produce at a lower cost a raw material of poor quality, under unsustainable farming conditions and with irreversible environmental damage. This damage is caused by the concentration of an incredible amount of waste, manure and manure on site. They are the result of incessant round-trips of trucks delivering food produced hundreds of kilometres away, but also raising thousands of litres of poor quality milk, often destined for export. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Of course, you recognize here the industrial model of the thousand cows farm. We will always prefer the cow of the thousand farms! A thousand farms are human-sized farms, which guarantee the production of quality, healthy food on areas where waste can be valued ecologically. But, above all, these farms provide farmers with a decent income, commensurate with their work and quality, while preserving their health and ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u45	This example clearly shows that ecology is not an annex subject, a good conscience that one could pay at low prices by always insufficient compensation. Nature has no price.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u47	Its preservation is the condition of our survival.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We have entered the sixth mass extinction of biodiversity. If we do not act, the human species could soon be on the list of endangered species. Today, bees are still threatened by the use of neonicotinoids.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u50	They're not allowed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is no longer time to procrastinate: the ecological emergency is a central issue, it must guide the entire policy of our country. The time of the ecosystem is a long time, unlike the short time of finance. That is why we, the unsubstantiated and unsubstantiated environmentalists above all, propose the green rule as a grid of analysis and political decision: we must not draw more from nature than what it can reconstruct. [[Protests on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I hope that this ecological evidence will be echoed among you, even though, in the last few days, during the debate on the enabling bill to take by order measures to strengthen social dialogue, we have feared for a short moment that you are only clones without soul.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u52	Don't insult us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u53	But here I am reassured by your reaction: in addition to your sense of humour, you have a lively mind and we can certainly trust your ability to analyse.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u54	Count on us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u55	In these circumstances, I have no doubt that you will be able to recognise among the amendments which we are going to consider earlier, some of which will be defended by the Group of the European People's Party, those which will allow us and future generations to take account of this absolute ecological emergency. I repeat: all this is not anecdotal, because, in terms of the environment, there is no question of dealing with only a few large and useless projects whose harmful effects on our environment are already known, without any benefit for our lives or for our jobs. It is also necessary to take into account the cumulative effect of the thousands of projects that gradually gnaw our landscapes, cement our natural spaces, nibble our agricultural lands to enrich some to the detriment of the majority of us. [[Smile]] To conclude and as I know that there are eminent mathematicians in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u56	Among other things!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u57	The one you're thinking of is already in bed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u58	I saw it! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I suggest you think about this simple equation: in a world with finite resources, can we continue to believe blissfully in infinite growth without it finally destroying our planet?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u59	Mr. Jacques Krabal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u60	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chair of the Commission, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill to ratify two orders on environmental matters could appear of relative importance, at least for the large media that are too little interested in them. However, these orders are a useful complement to the existing environmental assessment system for the first, and to the second, to the provisions on information and public participation on decisions that have an environmental impact. With regard to the choice to legislate by ordinances, no parliamentarian can a priori be satisfied with delegating his or her legislative power to the Government. For a deputy, it is always a bit sad to remember the decree-laws, which are widely used under the Third Republic. Prosper Weil, a public law expert, said in the early 2000s that the number of ordinances tended to decrease, while in recent years it has increased as a result of the complexity of society and the scarcity of parliamentary time. However, the many mechanisms of oversight, participation of parliamentarians in the drafting of orders, or their possible amendment, leave us fully with the means to exercise our legislative power, as has been demonstrated in committee. There is no point in yelling at the wolf and agitating by invoking attacks on democracy, as we can hear. Scaring, always scaring and caricature is never good for democracy. In this regard, I would like to stress, as Barbara Pompili did earlier, the intellectual honesty of our colleague Bertrand Pancher. Mr. Pancher has been a specialist in citizen consultation processes for a very long time and, although he was initially very opposed to the use of orders, he acknowledged that the association of parliamentarians and the consultations conducted as part of the order preparation process had been very satisfactory. We must therefore recognise that, after the examination in committee, doubts should be dispelled, especially since the text served as a vehicle for the adoption of many measures by way of amendments tabled by our rapporteur, Jean-Marc Zulesi. As far as temporality is concerned, the use of ordinances is also justified, I would remind you, by the need to adapt our right to that of the European Union. I believe in the building of a solid and protective European law. France is often among the bad students in the field of transposition and, if we must never transpose more than we are asked to do, we must transpose what is necessary. So we had a duty to go fast. On the subject of environmental dialogue, as on many others, France has been working hard for several years. We are looking for the best compromise between efficiency, acceptability and public information for an informed debate. The task is not simple, but we are constantly making progress. Moreover, the Cigeo project in Bure, the dam of Sivens or Notre-Dame-des-Landes show us that this dialogue, while always perfectable, is increasingly difficult. So let's not spoil our pleasure! Among the advances I have made, I will mention the improvement of the dissemination of information, the presence of upstream participation mechanisms for plans, programmes and small projects, the extension of the deadline for citizens' right to initiative and the strengthening of the means of mediation and conciliation. If we fail to agree, we must develop the culture of consensus and the search for a balance. We must learn to accept the culture in which everyone takes one step towards the other, instead of remaining, as has too often been the case in this House, on confrontational postures. Like our President of the Republic, we believe in the virtues of dialogue and rational and reasonable exchange, the pedagogy that helps to dispel fears.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u62	On this subject as on many others, I will quote Jean de La Fontaine, a native of Château-Thierry, who, in "The Dog who looses his prey for the shadow", recalled that we must not be mistaken in combat. But I have the feeling that that's what some people do. We must try to free ourselves from ideological or strictly economic positions in order to protect our environment and overcome our tensions. For some, we go too far; for others, not enough. In my view, the balance achieved is quite satisfactory. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mr Secretary of State, this first text, which I hope will be voted on by a very large majority, augurs well for the spirit that inspires us in the Committee on Sustainable Development and, more broadly, in our majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u63	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u64	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "How can we do policy differently? An idea to change politics. A short time ago, the committees on the march competed with ideas of all kinds to capture the attention of the French. Emmanuel Macron, such as Jupiter, predicted a revolution On the move, intended to renovate everything in its passage, with the presumptuous ambition to blow a new wind of democracy. It must be noted that the first orientations of the quinquennium are far from meeting this requirement for real change. Hope was immense. The disappointment will be all the more terrible for our fellow citizens. The bill to ratify the orders of August 3, 2016, which you are submitting to us today, is indicative of this state of mind. This legislation deals with the rules applicable to the environmental assessment of projects, plans and programs, as well as public participation in the development of certain decisions that may have an impact on the environment. As is often the case in the explanatory memorandum of the draft laws, the stated objective may seem commendable, including greater consultation with local and regional authorities and their various groups, consultation on projects, better public involvement in the decision-making process or modernization of public inquiries, but is it not also said that hell is paved with good intentions? The future will certainly tell us, and perhaps sooner than we think – or, more precisely, than you seem to think. Indeed, this bill poses a twofold challenge. The first is the very principle of the use of orders. How can we imagine, in fact, that we can decide on devices designed, for example, to allow a better association of the public in the decision-making process if, at the same time – to take up an expression dear to the President of the Republic – you deprive the national representation of a real debate on these subjects? There is at least an inconsistency in your approach, if not a pernicious intention to want, under the guise of efficiency, to have texts passed in disregard of the most basic right of deputies: the power to debate before deciding on the law. The second difficulty is the nature of the texts that you are asking us to ratify. One of the orders that you are presenting to us is, by the very admission of the explanatory memorandum to the ratification bill, nothing more than a response to an opinion of the European Commission that the list of plans and programmes subject to the environmental assessment was not in conformity with Community law. In addition, the Ordinance also provides for the transposition of a directive on the environmental assessment of projects. We are dealing here with the fundamental problem which we, in our capacity as parliamentarians, have been facing for far too long: in addition to the deprivation of a debate to which we are entitled by nature, the quasi-systematic nature of laws transposing Community directives on certain texts raises the dual question of our legislative sovereignty and the role assigned to parliamentarians. Indeed, the primacy of Community law over our national law is in itself an anomaly, to which we should return without delay. Representatives of the French people, we are reduced, with this hierarchy of iniquitous norms, no longer to legislate in the interests of the people, as our function commands us, but to give our approval to transcriptions of absconic texts written by obscurous European officials without any legitimacy, because not elected. Do you find it legitimate that our country has virtually no room for manoeuvre with regard to its legislation and is subject to the wishes of the Brussels Commission? France is a great nation, free, major, which deserves better than this permanent and unbearable guardianship. This deleterious mechanism also raises the question of the role assigned to parliamentarians. The French gave us a mandate to represent them, and to draft and vote on the law. They did not wish to elect Members to vote only on pale copies of European regulations. The Palais-Bourbon, the fruit of a beautiful and long history, deserves better than the status of a simple recording chamber to which you have submitted it for far too long. "We won't do France again by the elites, we'll do it again by the base," Bernanos wrote. It is high time to give back to politics its letters of nobility. Suffer that national sovereignty can finally, as provided for in our Constitution, be truly expressed by the voice of its elected representatives. Real democracy will be fully exercised only on this condition. Be assured of our determination to defend this fundamental principle without weakness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u65	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u66	Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u67	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have often repeated this during the presidential and legislative campaigns: we want to give the floor to our fellow citizens and we work on it every day. One of the main objectives of the ordinances that we are about to ratify is precisely to involve the public in the decision-making process, democratizing environmental dialogue and modernizing the evaluation of public projects, plans and programs. For too long, environmental issues have had only a marginal place in the political debate. This time seems to be over, and the presence in the Government of Mr. Nicolas Hulot, in particular, is a perfect illustration of this. The French attach increasing importance to environmental issues. They are committed to addressing these issues and we must help them. Let everyone reassure themselves: contrary to what has sometimes been said, the use of orders does not violate the rights of Parliament either. We, as legislators, have the opportunity to amend the orders before us when we review the ratification bill. The discussions in committee over the last two weeks have given us rich speeches and fruitful exchanges, and allowed for the adoption of many amendments. The provisions of this text enshrine new rights for our citizens. It is the promise of a sustained and high-quality democratic dialogue, with a right of easy access to information, the assurance of public debate and quality prior consultation, well in advance of procedures and decision-making, the establishment of reasonable time limits for submitting observations and, last but not least, the right to be informed of the way in which the comments and proposals made are taken into account during the decision-making process. I would like to highlight a novelty introduced by Order 2016-1060: the Environmental Code now provides for the possibility of presenting and developing alternative solutions, including the lack of implementation of the project, or "zero option". I see it as a strong symbol that paves the way for consensus-building and consensus-building. Of course, this text remains perfectable. Thus, the threshold from which the National Commission for Public Debate can be seized by the citizens, now set at 500,000 signatories, seems to us to be relatively high. By comparison, the threshold of the European Citizens' Initiative is now 1 million signatories for the Union as a whole. We have noted that the Government has made a commitment to assess within two to three years the impact of this legislation on the law in force. It will then be up to us to make the necessary adjustments and to correct certain deadlines or thresholds if recourse to the right of referral proves unsatisfactory. Similarly, where the norm is not intended to apply to all projects, we will be able to feed our thinking through experiments carried out in specific territories and within specific deadlines. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize the positive spirit of this legislation, which really enriches the conditions for environmental assessment and public participation in decision-making. At this moment, I am thinking of the administrators of my department, the Haute-Marne, of those who have experienced, sometimes painfully, the public debate on the Cigeo project for the storage of nuclear waste. How many live today with the feeling that their opinions have not been heard or taken into account and that the choices have already been made, while the alternative solutions were only a little, if any, addressed? [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The new version of the environmental code we are writing and the prospects it offers us significantly improve the governance, listening and participation of all in this decision-making process. We can only congratulate them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u68	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be too long in order not to interfere with the discussion of the many amendments tabled by Members from all quarters of this House. However, I will come back to a few points, which indeed have political aspects. These ordinances also cover extraordinarily technical and legal realities. Mr rapporteur, I can understand that the threshold of 500,000 citizens set for referral to the CNDP on major public policies may be a source of concern or a question, because we have not yet had recourse to this referral in French law – or rather, if, and I will come back to it in a moment, but not in terms of consultation. It is therefore difficult to get an idea of the reality of this remedy. Nevertheless, parliamentarians often call on the Government to work towards simplification. As I said earlier, 500,000 is the number of signatures that trigger the referral to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. The first argument justifying this measure is therefore that it allows this alignment and visibility. The second argument – about which you can say in a few months whether I was wrong or right – is that, on important issues of very large public policies, one can easily reach this threshold of 500,000 signatures. This is the case, for example, for GMOs, for labour law, as we have seen recently, or for secrecy in business law – all of which have generated petitions on the Internet, in a dematerialized format. On these threshold issues, however, as I have said and will direct, the Government undertakes to make an assessment and return to you if it appears that the appeal rate is zero or insignificant. I am making a commitment to it before the committee. [[Smile]] Mr Pancher is no longer here, so I will speak to his mind as well as to his group! Thank you for your encouragement in co-construction. Some of you have pointed out that it is perhaps a bit iconoclastic to use a prescription to transpose and introduce the various devices that we are studying this evening in French law. The reality is that the mechanism of the ordinances has made it possible to obtain a real consensus between different partners – non-governmental organisations, the economic world, local elected representatives, parliamentarians – on the texts we propose to you tonight. You have also insisted, Mr Pancher, who are still not here, on dematerialization by saying that it is in the right direction. I also agree with this, but I would like to repeat what I said in the general discussion: the CNDP will retain the ability to re-introduce paper if, for social reasons or in some rural areas, the need arises. Mr Bouillon, represented by Minister Guillaume Garot, whom I welcome, was right to recall, together with his group and with Mr Sermier, that the Environment Charter and the Aarhus Convention provide for the inclusion of elements of citizen participation in positive law. This is precisely what we are doing this evening: we are creating concrete positive law, operational for our fellow citizens, for the purpose of participating in projects that could be particularly harmful to the environment. You are asking us, together with your group, Mr. Garot, to define the concept of "public participation". It is interesting from a legal point of view: it is a matter, beyond the political opportunity, of proposing a legal wording of this concept – I will come back to that when I consider the amendments. With this order, we begin to incorporate elements of the definition of this concept into positive law. I also wonder whether this order is the right vehicle to do so. This question also arises with regard to the "broom clause" – I will come back to it in a few moments in response to Mr Wulfranc –: is this order the right vehicle for changing the law, as the wording of the amendment gives rise to a great deal of uncertainty? I'm not sure. Finally, as you know, we have launched a workshop to reflect on how to transform the National Council for Ecological Transition, the CNTE, so that it can be integrated into our participation procedures. To sum up in one sentence the position of your group, Mrs Mathilde Panot, this does not go far enough. It's your right and I respect your position. However, this evening's progress is concrete, unprecedented, unique, operational. This right, it's been a long time since we've talked about it, it's been the subject of declarations, promises, and this evening, we're turning it into operational positive law. You are very concerned that the setting of thresholds hinders the use of the CNDP, depriving this right of any real effectiveness. You will allow me to consider that the introduction of thresholds makes it possible, on the contrary, for real debates to take place. I would not want you to misunderstand the statement I made in committee – I dare not believe you have caricatured it –: it is not because there is a lack of officers at the CNDP that we set thresholds, especially since the resources of the CNDP have been increased. I have explained it to you in committee, Madam Member. I even explained that the number of guarantors had been increased, that they had been trained. I have already answered all these points. If we set thresholds, it is also, quite simply, to organize the debate a little bit. Without wishing to offend any conviction, a good debate is a debate that takes place in order. Here, in the temple of democracy, there is a rule of procedure: we do not take the floor in any way, speaking is organized and that does not prevent democracy from functioning. Our fellow citizens would be very angry if all this were to happen in the bazaar, opening up the possibility of undue recourse. Indeed, where you may think you are doing a service, opposing interests could divert this ability to seize the CNDP to delay real green projects. One parliamentarian pointed out that some of these projects are involved in the ecological transition and face opposition from interest groups that you know. It is because we are here to reason in law and not only in political opportunity that I have allowed myself to recall these arguments. You have also, along with others, referred to the examination on a case-by-case basis. I would not like this examination to be considered as a procedure of lower value, the "poor" procedure – forgive me for the expression. This is not the case in law. As a member of the Government – and I am sure that parliamentarians will share this concern – I also believe that this would be deeply disrespectful of government officials who are investigating these issues in the DREALs – the Regional Directorates of the Environment, Planning and Housing – the DREEEs – the Regional and Interdepartmental Directorates of the Environment and Energy – and the DEALs – the Directorates of the Environment, Planning and Housing – in the Overseas Departments. Believe me, MP, they do it with great speed and seriousness. It is not because an examination is on a case-by-case basis – as I say for you, Mr Wulfranc – that it is an environmental authorization at the discount. If you found such a case in your constituency, I'd be interested to know it. I wanted to say that in order not to let the national representation prosper the idea that "case by case" is not a good study. You have finally pointed out one or two CNDP failures: that is precisely what justifies these orders, Madam Member! The text that you will adopt this evening will answer that. I repeat, once these arrangements have been evaluated, even by Parliament – because an evaluation does not lie – we can talk about them again. Mr Wulfranc, I have noted the purely Norman reference to road bypass: the Norman Members will appreciate it. You're talking about the "broom clause," MP. This clause is intelligent, intellectually interesting, for me anyway. However, introducing it into this order tonight, which is not the main purpose, would create real legal uncertainty, especially given the way in which your amendment is drafted. The introduction of such a clause could suggest that any specific classification of environmental risks would have been terminated. In the French legal tradition, the definition of thresholds and targeted risks, either by the legislative power or by the regulatory power, provides guarantees for the preservation and protection of our environment. We can discuss it again, and the committee could debate it – but that is none of my business. In any case, the Government will take its part in this debate and endeavour to move it forward. You mentioned the defects in form, Mr. Member of Parliament. I would point out that a 2011 simplification law, as Parliament is used to voting on it, provides that formal defects do not affect the legality of the procedure since they have no impact on the substance. Therefore, and in the continuity of Parliament's vote, I do not wish to see a return to simplification efforts which the Government has had approved by Parliament under the previous quinquennium. Thank you for your comments, Mr. Djebbari. We owe you and the rapporteur and you, as well as the benevolence of his president, the important progress that has been made in committee, whether in terms of thresholds – ten million or five million, it is not the same – time limits, in particular to align them with those of the urban planning code, modalities or clarification. Thank you for your comments and especially for your action. [[Smile]] Thank you, Mr.Sermier, for the Republican wishes for success that you have addressed to the members of the Government: I recognize here your constructive attitude, in a way, on environmental issues in any case! I don't know you today, Mr. Member of Parliament, and your benevolence is known to me: know that it touches me. If Mrs Panot and the La France group disagree with the use of orders, I can understand it: they are consistent with themselves and with what they have always said. When the Republicans, whom I know very well, get out of the use of the ordinances, I recall that all the candidates at the primary level of the right and centre made use of the ordinance the alpha and the omega of governmental and parliamentary efficiency: candidate François Fillon had even made it one of the important elements of his program!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u70	Like Bruno Le Maire!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u71	I do not have the brief memory, honourable Member, of all these exchanges, and I want to keep it consistent on this subject. As you said, MP Sermier, it turns out that permission to use these orders was sought by the previous government and granted by the previous majority. Nevertheless, on behalf of Nicolas Hulot and the Government of Edward Philippe, I will not propose this ratification to Parliament if we do not adhere to the substance and spirit of these texts. Thank you, once again, for your comments on the substance and the spirit: you, who are a specialist on these issues, know that this text is in the right direction and will allow a number of advances. I know your sensitivity to agricultural issues. This is a text, ladies and gentlemen, which reconciles ecology, ecological transition, listening to people, whatever they may be, respect for project promoters, whatever they may be, including farmers. Since it is not forbidden to be intelligent, in any case to tend to it, I think that tonight we are collectively doing beautiful work for our French law, even if it is by order – I am sure that it will be soon forgotten. I have noted, Mr Millienne, that you have summarized the method of the Minister of State, Nicolas Hulot, in speaking of pragmatism, transversality and truth. As the minister is currently in Roissy to greet a record seizure of turtle scales made by customs, he cannot be in the bench of ministers tonight but I thank you on his behalf. I'll give him your encouragement. You also insist that the rights must be effective. You also address the issue of thresholds, but in a different way. With regard to projects with public or private ownership, with at least EUR 5 million in public money and in the area of impact concerned, you would like to see the rates go down to 15% on the one hand, and to 7.5% on the other – I will redirect it much more briefly, be assured: if I am long now, it is to be faster on the amendments. I do not wish to do so at this stage, not because I think you are wrong, but because a balance has been found after a long search for consensus with non-governmental organizations, with associations, with the economic world, with the consular world, with parliamentarians, with local elected representatives. If this is not so bad in this House, then there has still been a symbiosis on this text. We cannot begin to touch these thresholds without risking destabilizing things in one direction or another. I would ask you to believe, honourable Member, that I went to committee to the maximum of what I could do, in particular by reducing the threshold from ten million to five million. I think we've found a balance. There will be an evaluation and if it turns out that it doesn't work, we can always change it in two to three years. Parliament will, of course, deal with it when it so wishes and the Government remains at its disposal. Mr Prud'homme, you are right. ("Ah! » on the benches of the FI group.) – I expected this reaction! –: we need to be more resource-efficient. Yes, Mr.Prud'homme, you are right: we must even change our productive model. That is what Nicolas Hulot and the Government are saying, and I am sure you will support them in this matter, with pragmatism and objectivity. You are even so right that we can no longer accept everything – and here I speak seriously. This shift in production is at the heart of the Government's ecological and solidarity-based transition. It is no longer just a question of sustainable development: it is a change of society. If there is to be a change in society, we need a change in the understanding of the capture of natural resources, on the one hand – we need to learn to do with more rarity – and, on the other hand, our way of consuming. We will have the opportunity to come back to this in future bills or texts that contain the Climate Plan, particularly in the context of ecological transition contracts. It is my personal history that explains it: I think the most pragmatic and operational answers to move things forward will come from the territories. You say that some cases are urgent – you have cited a large number of them – and that all the earth's consultations will not change anything. Once again, you're right. You simply invite us to make decisions collectively, either because we will have to change the law – I want you to be able to help us when we do this, especially in the autumn with regard to hydrocarbon operations – or because we will have to set up a number of authorisation schemes for which Nicolas Hulot's ministry is responsible. Let us not say to this text what it does not say: it is a step forward in positive law for our fellow citizens. Perhaps it does not go far enough for your group but it exists, it is real and, whatever you say, it is a first. I thank Mr Jacques Krabal – or at least his spirit! – to have recalled that the ordinances have enabled us to work in a consensual manner and to correctly transpose European directives which are difficult to incorporate into our law. Technically, again, he's right. Mr Ludovic Pajot, I would like to hear everything but spend five minutes and fourteen seconds saying that Parliament is dispossessed of its power because of Brussels or the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u72	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u73	... without mentioning the substance of the text once, it's still a bit weird – I'm telling you as I think it is. I have not even understood your position and that of your group on the substance. We have been discussing this text for a while, we started last week in committee, we accepted or refused amendments, but I wonder, honourable Member, whether we have shared the same legislative experience on this issue. I still have the impression that parliamentarians have been able to use their right of amendment, and they will be able to do so again in a moment. I have not seen any amendment proposed by you, Mr President. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on a few benches of the GDR group]] Once again, I would like to hear everything, but I note that the members of the National Front are showing the same bad faith here in this assembly as in my municipal council in Vernon. At least we're not surprised! [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mrs Bérangère Abba, my last word is for you and I will repeat for the third time the same thing – we cannot say that the Government has not been clear –: yes, a thousand times yes to an evaluation within three years, and we will change what must be, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u74	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u75	Two speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u76	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, some have said: we must remember where the text submitted for our discussion this evening comes from. On 26 October 2014, Rémi Fraisse, a twenty-one-year-old environmental activist, was killed by an offensive grenade during a confrontation on the margins of the demonstration against the Sivens Dam. A month later, the President of the Republic, at the opening of the environmental conference, noted that Sivens illustrated the need for further progress in citizen participation, with participatory democracy becoming the rule. Like my predecessors, I welcome the many advances made in these two orders and in the bill that ratifies them, including the new pre-concertion on projects, plans or programs, including alternative solutions. It is indeed a condition of success and an assurance of relevance. That's what Sivens missed; This is also what has been lacking at Notre-Dame des Landes where, in forty-five years, the state has never seriously studied such alternatives. The ongoing expertise mission can finally bring new light. This is what is lacking in so many other infrastructure projects. The time when political decision-makers could get people to accept any project, even the bad ones, even those who did not respect the environment or the long term, is over and that's so much better. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I come back to the interesting discussion on the issue of the citizen threshold on environmental reform projects. I have heard that the threshold of 500,000, which many of us have proposed, has been validated by the Secretary of State, together with an evaluation. On the basis of this exchange, could we note that it will take place one year after the enactment of the law? The absence of any referral would tend to raise that threshold too high.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u78	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u79	Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, I will be quick. I will not go back to the principle of the ordinance, but we could discuss the relevance of the timetable, between the first enabling legislation, the publication and the ratification which will allow this evening, especially and mainly in Parliament, to consolidate what was enacted a year ago. I would like, after my colleague Jean-Marie Sermier, to stress that we owe this evening's debate to President Jacques Chirac and to the Constitutional Charter of the Environment, of which I have had the chance and honour of being co-rapporteur. If, on all these benches, all are quite easily referring to it tonight, I would like to remind myself that a few ten years ago, its adoption was not always a long, quiet river. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and REM groups]] You have been right, Mr Secretary of State, to consider that we are making great societal progress this evening, but as is always the case here, it takes time and Parliament has taken it since the Constitutional Charter of the Environment. Its Article 7, which is not of direct scope and to which I have contributed, provides that Parliament, in the necessary time, defines by a law of direct scope – whether in the form of an order or not, Mr. Secretary of State – that everyone has the right to access environmental information held by public authorities. Personally, as a former rapporteur of the Constitutional Charter of the Environment, I believe that tonight we will improve access to information and participation in the drafting of public decisions. Therefore, both in environmental matters and in all matters, I think that we will contribute to making even fairer decisions, upstream, for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u81	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u82	I would like to reassure my colleagues that this is probably the last time I will speak tonight. Here again I will take up my cap as rapporteur for the Constitutional Charter of the Environment, but I would like to associate myself with the remarks made on dematerialisation. A number of concerns have arisen, Mr. Secretary of State. Not all departments are equal in terms of distances. If in some of them we talk about distances, in others we talk about travel time. I would add, ladies and gentlemen, that the issue of winter sustainability must be taken into account in some of them – in our beautiful country, valleys and passes can be closed in winter. I would like, after others, to stress the absolute need to ensure, in the regulatory part, that dematerialisation is not the only means of public consultation. Article 7 of the Environmental Charter specifically states that everyone has the right to access environmental information held by public authorities and to participate in the preparation of public decisions affecting the environment under the conditions and limits defined by law, since that is what this is all about. We discussed it in committee with colleagues The Republicans, the President, the Secretary of State. Of which note as to the position of the majority and the Secretary of State, but I would like to stress the need, in the long run, to be a little more precise or, in any case, to make the various references of the environmental code and the urban planning code coherent in order to know when these new procedures will take place in the event of environmental impacts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u83	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u84	[[Smile]] I take the floor again and perhaps not for the last time, unlike my colleague. I am chattering and I am all the more so as the Secretary of State gave me wings recognizing that I was right. I maintain that this Article 2 is a democratic dress of which we are not sure that it is changing the situation, contrary to what is being sold to us, especially since the resources allocated to these consultations remain the same. I would also like to go back to an expression heard in committee which seems to me to be indicative of the spirit of the forthcoming amendments: the stated objective is to promote "social acceptability". What does that mean? I will make the parallel with the triptych ERC, "avoid, reduce, compensate": this would be the triptych CEB, "consult, pack, concrete". That's how I understand this formula! There is nothing in this discussion to suggest that we are moving towards a real change of model. In fact, you gave me the right, Secretary of State, when I considered that this was not the case. We remain in a logic of compensation. But who can say today how to quantify compensation for a fragile wetland or ecosystem? No one since, as I said, it is priceless. These are the reasons why we will vote against this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u86	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u87	Secretary of State, I wonder about the 500,000 European petitioners. The necessary investments for the port of Le Havre will to some extent disturb the environment of the Seine estuary. I am not convinced that some European ports are delighted by the fact that the port of Le Havre regains a maritime facade and is again performing well to power Paris. In these circumstances, will we not find 500,000 petitioners outside France to thwart projects that our country would consider indispensable? On the understanding that the first order transposes a European directive, I am not sure that it is not about European citizens. If they are citizens of the European Union who remain in France, there is no problem, but the Secretary of State has not made it clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u88	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u89	There is also the question of public consultation. We are working on technology risk prevention plans, the PPRT, which for my good city of Gonfreville-l'Orcher is a real subject. We are faced with a problem of making information about areas of risk available on-line for terrorism issues: the dissemination of accurate data, accessible to all citizens, concerning sensitive areas of our industries could in some way turn against us. It is therefore no longer possible to put the latter online: we filter. It should therefore be pointed out that either this text represents an immense progress in the field of the environment and that all data are accessible, available to all, or that it is clearly stated that this will not be the case if national or public security is involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u90	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond very quickly to the honourable Member so that no one is mistaken. In this case, European citizenship refers to persons residing in France who have the status of elector in municipal and European elections. Of course, the citizens of Antwerp, for example, will not be able to defend an action before the CNDP in order to undermine the development of this great Norman port, Mr. For the sake of the matter, be reassured! In this case, since this is a large project, the threshold is 10000, not 500,000. The Government, like the legislator, has a virtuous vision of things and will ensure that the system is not diverted. To answer your second question, the fight against terrorism means, unfortunately, that certain data relating to nuclear, water management and certain sites classified as SEVESO or sensitive are no longer accessible as they were a few years ago. National representation will easily understand that these arrangements are absolutely necessary to guarantee the freedom and security of our citizens. Mr Saddier, just one word to say to you, as I have already done in committee, that the Government is obviously ready to accompany Parliament in order to speed up the convergence between the environmental code and the urban code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u92	I have before me two amendments, Nos 24 and 37, which can be presented together. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u93	These are two editorial amendments, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u94	I have before me two amendments, Nos 16 and 18, which can be presented together. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u95	These are two coordination amendments, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u96	I have before me two amendments, Nos 15 and 19, which can be presented together. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u97	These two amendments are drafting, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u98	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u99	The purpose of this amendment is to correct an omission and to clearly include in the legislative part of the CNDP Code the principle that, now as before the reform, expenditure on the material organisation of public debate or prior consultation is the responsibility of the contractor or the public person responsible for the project, plan or programme. In the present state of the law, the provisions of article L. 121-16 are applicable to prior consultations, but there is no provision for public debates organized by the CNDP under the legislative part of the Code. Article L. 121-6 only establishes the principle that the competition fund receives financial contributions. In the regulatory part, Article R. 121-6-1 provides that the contracting authority or the public person responsible shall sign an agreement with the CNDP on the estimated amount of the public debate and shall absolve the competition fund in two instalments, at the signing of the agreement – up to 80% – and at the start of the debate – up to 15%. The balance shall be paid after payment. Previously, Article L. 121-9 III provided that expenditure on the material organization of a public debate was to be borne by the contracting authority or the public person responsible. This amendment was accepted by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u101	The rapporteur's amendment has the merit of clarifying the division between the regulatory and legislative fields. For that reason, the Government was in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u102	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No 42, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u103	The purpose of this amendment is to enable the CNDP to hold a public debate or prior consultation when it has before it a project which is subject to compulsory consultation under Article L. 103-2 of the Urban Planning Code, as was the case before the entry into force of the Ordinance. This provision is justified by the important issues related to this type of project. It will allow for better consideration of environmental issues. As soon as the CNDP organises a public debate or prior consultation, the consultation under Article L. 103-2 of the Urban Planning Code will not be implemented. This amendment was accepted by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u105	This clarification is welcome and the Government is in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u106	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u107	The purpose of this amendment is to strengthen the preparatory nature of the referral to the CNDP at the stage of the preparation of a draft reform. Despite the adoption of this amendment in committee, I continue to believe, in my personal capacity, that it is problematic for the Government to have provided by decree for a reform project to be carried out in a document prior to a decision by the Government or a bill. This condition, due to the absence of a bill, does not seem to me to be in keeping with the spirit of this text. On the other hand, I continue to believe that it would be better to lower the threshold to 300,000 citizens, as I had already done in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u109	I do not go back to the question of the threshold, to which I have already largely answered. With regard to what is at the heart of this amendment, since I believe that it is always preferable to intervene upstream rather than downstream, and since your amendment goes in this direction, the Government is in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u110	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u111	This is an editorial amendment, Madam President. Public participation in the broad sense should be emphasized, not only prior consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u112	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u113	The Government's opinion was always favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u114	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u115	This is an amendment of precision, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u116	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No. 43, second rectification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u117	The purpose of this amendment is to enable the CNDP to organise prior consultation on the largest projects subject to the provisions of Article L. 103-2 of the Urban Planning Code, taking into account the issues related to such projects. Where prior consultation is thus organised, the provisions of Article L. 103-2 shall no longer apply. This amendment, which complements that of your rapporteur to amend Article L. 121-9 of the Environment Code, has been accepted by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u118	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u119	That clarification was also welcome and the Government was in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u120	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No 22, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u121	This amendment is intended to correct a reference error.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u122	I have before me three amendments, Nos 17, 41 and 40, which can be presented together. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u123	These are three editorial amendments, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u124	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor to support Amendment No. 35 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u125	Minister, I'm not going to obstruct to obstruct. With regard to the question of thresholds, which has stirred up our whole House, I have heard what you said earlier. If you confirm that these provisions will be the subject of a precise assessment after a year, I shall withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u127	Even if I understand the objective that you are pursuing through this amendment – to increase the right of initiative – and even if I share it – you will have understood it – I invite you to withdraw it. Our committee has indeed come back to two major points of the original bill, which were too strictly restricting this right of initiative. I would like to recall these advances: the two-month deadline for collecting signatures has been doubled, and the threshold for defining projects falling within the scope of the measure cannot exceed five million public dollars. Your amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u129	This amendment gives me the opportunity to repair an oversight since I did not answer Mr Orphelin on the issue of evaluation. You proposed, Mr. Member, that this assessment take place after a year. I am not opposed to this, and Parliament is evaluating the Government's action when it wishes to do so, but I fear that it will be a little short. Will we, after a year, have a sufficient step backwards? I don't know how to answer that question. If Parliament takes this one-year deadline, I will rely on its wisdom. In fact, I think it is after a year and a half or two years that we can begin to see whether this provision has any effect. It is less the member of the Government who speaks to you than the local elected representative, based on his experience in the field. But I readily admit that I can be wrong. Mr Millienne, the rapporteur recalled the efforts we made in committee and then in the Chamber. The best thing being the enemy of the good, I thank you for withdrawing your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u130	Mr Millienne, do you confirm the withdrawal of Amendment No 35 as corrected?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u131	I'm withdrawing it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u132	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u133	Madam President, I had asked to speak on the previous amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u134	I did not see you, Mr Lecoq, and the amendment was withdrawn. But you will be able to speak on one of the next amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u135	I'm counting on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u136	The aim of this amendment, Madam President, is to correct a reference error.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u137	May I speak after the Secretary of State, Madam President? The amendment has not been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u138	Yes, it is. You have the floor, Mr. Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u139	Thank you, Madam President. I thought it was possible to intervene after the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u140	The rule is that one or two speakers may react after the Government has given its opinion on an amendment. In this case, the amendment merely seeks to correct a reference error.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u141	It doesn't matter. It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u142	Indeed, and I have given you the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u143	I understand how these orders will be implemented, but there is still a pending issue, that of communication: what means will be available to raise awareness of 10,000 people? I hear there's social media. However, the powers that carry a project often have the financial means to defend it, whereas this is not necessarily the case with environmental protection associations: they are not always able, for example, to afford a page in the press. At no point in these ordinances appears this dimension of the means that will be necessary for citizens "petitioners" if I may say, to communicate or call to gather against a particular project. In my view, this is a gap, which justifies a reply from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u144	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u145	I would point out that our commission has the power, and even the duty, to review a report on the implementation of the law after three months and an evaluation report on the impact of the law after three years. It is also possible to deal with the issue between these two deadlines. Given our various uncertainties, which are quite normal in that the system is new, it is important that we draw up such a report. I pledge to you on behalf of the committee that this will be done as soon as the deadline appears sufficient for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u146	It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u147	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u148	Secretary of State, we are in the process of rewriting certain procedural provisions. It is always good to fluidise these procedures – what you are doing – and to associate the maximum of our citizens in the debate – you are also doing so – but you know that we must also consolidate the text, in order to avoid a legal battle on all the issues studied. In order to consolidate procedures, the correct terms must be used. In this regard, the words "significant impacts" should, in our view, be replaced by the words "significant impacts". We would thus improve the text by bringing the urban planning code and the environmental code closer together. You yourself called earlier, Secretary of State, for a convergence of these two codes. We therefore hope that this amendment will receive a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, as well as during its examination in committee, I express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, for the following reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u151	Because he's ugly?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u152	Not at all. You know our spirit of openness! First, according to the summary of your amendment, the term "significant impacts" would be blurred, but in what way is the term "significant impacts" less so?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u153	It is included in the environmental code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u154	It seems to me that the word "significant" is more restrictive than the word "significant". It is therefore not desirable to use it, since it is necessary to take into account all the possible environmental consequences of a project, and not only the most serious consequences. Second, the term "significant impacts" is included in the directive that we need to transpose and was also included in Article L. 122-1 of the Environmental Code before it was amended by the order that we have just ratified. Any change in the vocabulary used without a clear explanation of the difference introduced can only cause concern among actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u156	Let us be precise, honourable Member: the term "significant impacts" is used in European law, while the term "significant impacts" is used – you are right – in French law as it is currently codified. That is the rule of law. I do not wish to speak in this debate between members of the Committee on Sustainable Development. The Government therefore relies on the wisdom of the Assembly, by formulating a simple recommendation: it may make sense to use the phrase "significant implications", which is contained in the European directive, that it is a matter, remember, of transposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u157	Your Amendment No 1, Mr Zulesi, aims at editorial harmonisation?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u158	Indeed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u159	Is your amendment No 2 also editorially harmonised?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u160	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u161	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No. 5, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u162	It is intended to delete an unnecessary mention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u164	This deletion is welcome. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u165	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u166	The redundant references to the petitioner have been deleted in all but one of the sections amended by the Order. The amendment seeks to remedy this omission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u167	Is your Amendment No. 3, Mr Zulesi, drafting?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u168	Indeed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u169	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u170	We refuse to allow mandatory information on public inquiries to be done only by electronic means. Your text, Mr. Secretary of State, aims to amend article L. 123-13 of the Environmental Code very broadly. It will allow you to avoid the requirement for information on public inquiries. Indeed, you want to avoid digitizing the documents related to these investigations and consultations. But this economy clearly raises the problem of equal access to information. Our society is changing, as are the modes of information. While we cannot ignore that the Internet is now the first medium of communication and information, we must also think of the many territories where there is still a very large digital divide. If not all public survey documents are available online, the right to information will not be effective. The first sentence of Article L. 123-23 of the Environmental Code states that "the investigator or the commission of inquiry shall conduct the investigation in such a way as to enable the public to have complete information on the project, plan or programme, and to participate effectively in the decision-making process. This information will not be considered fully accessible to the public if not all existing documents are available online. On the other hand, if participation in the surveys can only be done physically, it cannot be considered that everything has been done to ensure that the population is actually involved in the decision-making process, in accordance with the article of the environmental code you want to amend. During the consultations on projects, physical participation and digital participation are the two legs of accessibility to documents and popular participation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Many of us, on all sides of this House, are committed to enabling people to participate in projects that affect their territory. We propose to delete paragraph 21 in order to make this right to information effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u172	Dear colleague, I take a few minutes to clarify you and Mr Prud'homme because I am not a "clone without a soul"! The Order 2016-1060 on which we must pronounce ourselves profoundly modernises the public inquiry by bringing it into the digital age. From now on, the administration will have to systematically propose to the public the possibility of submitting its observations and proposals in a dematerialized way. However, the drafters of the Ordinance have not forgotten that certain areas of the territory do not yet receive high-speed Internet or that computer procedures may not be familiar to some disadvantaged or elderly people. Therefore, the use of paper will remain possible for the public. I insist that only the public will be able to continue to send documents in hard copy, with the contractor having to put the public inquiry file online, pursuant to article L. 123-12 of the Environmental Code. Thus, the principle of digital consultation of documents will become the rule. However, an exception has been made for comments and proposals received in hard copy, which will always be available on-site. Administration cannot be forced to digitize them systematically to put them online. Given the sometimes high number of documents, this would represent a workload and thus a significant financial burden for the prefectures and local authorities concerned, at a time when tensions are high on the staff. I am therefore against the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u174	Let me tell you, honourable Member: the summary statement of your amendment does not correspond to its operative part. I have said this at least three times in committee and at least four times this evening – it's no big deal, I'm at the disposal of national representation all night long if it's necessary to repeat it –: dematerialization does not exclude the use of paper for information and the organisation of public debate. I have even said that the National Commission for Public Debate would have every opportunity to return to paper. Better: despite the dematerialization – and I am also replying to MP Lecoq – the opinions in the regional daily or weekly press will be maintained. So, forgive me, but you mustn't say anything wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u175	That's not what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u176	I have read your amendment, Madam Member: you say one thing in the summary statement, and another in the operative part, to which the Government is against. The deletion of paragraph 21 that you propose will automatically lead to the obligation to digitize all contributions made in paper format during the consultation or debate – they can either be dematerialized or made in paper format – to send them to the National Commission for Public Debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u177	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u178	Those who have had the chance to exercise local responsibilities within a town hall or departmental council...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u179	We don't have a chance to practice it anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u180	That also applies to the ministers, Mr. Member. Those who have had this opportunity, therefore, know very well that, rationally, today, it is not feasible or even desirable from the point of view of the proper functioning of the administration. However, paper-based contributions may well be archived, made accessible or disseminated: the guarantor of the debate or consultation may choose some that he considers important and transmit them in digital format. Of course, if you don't trust anyone, not even the guarantor appointed by the National Commission for Public Debate, we can't do it. [[Protests on several benches of the FI group]] Once again, hell is paved with good intentions. If you delete this paragraph, you will require the administration of any scanner. The ecological transition also requires a reduction in our paper consumption. To digitize, Madam Member, is to encourage the sending of paper rather than digital material. When we know that at the end of the consultation procedure, this goes to the CNDP, it is indeed an encouragement. Let me tell you, this amendment is a contradiction. In addition, it does not achieve the purpose you propose in the summary presentation. That is why the Government is giving a very unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u181	Very unfavorable! Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u182	I put to the vote Amendment No 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u183	[[Smile]] Very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u184	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, has the floor to support Amendment No 45 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u185	The purpose of this amendment is to provide for a two-month delayed entry into force for the reduction of the threshold of public expenditure or public grants from EUR 10 to EUR 5 million, which will apply to projects for which the new right of initiative provided for in Article L.121-17-1 may be exercised by citizens. These projects will also be subject to a declaration of intent. This is intended to ensure the predictability of the law and the preparation of projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u186	What is the Government's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u187	We agreed in committee to lower the threshold from EUR 10 million to EUR 5 million. For reasons of consistency, we must continue to adapt the text. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u188	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No 8 on the additional Rule after Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u189	The Ordinance covers only a portion of information and public participation issues. Thus, it does not define what environmental dialogue is. There is a need, as the ordinance does, to define the objectives of public participation and to list the rights that public participation confers on the public. But we probably need to go further and be more precise in order to make environmental dialogue more secure. This is why we propose to define what is meant by "public participation" and "public decision with an impact on the environment". The aim is to complete the device presented in the framework of the ordinance in order to better secure the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u190	What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u191	The proposed wording does not necessarily go in the direction of strengthening dialogue, my colleague. Indeed, the environmental dialogue, which would, by its place in the code, be intended to regulate all the procedures laid down in the ordinances, concentrates on public decisions only, whereas participation also includes private projects. The definition of the proposed dialogue refers only to the transmission of information and information to the public in participation procedures, which is relatively limited in relation to what is included in the order. Finally, the second part of the amendment, concerning the definition of a public decision having an impact on the environment, does not appear to be optimal. In fact, it is much better to allow each mechanism to have the most appropriate definition possible, most often by decree. Long "inventory" listings may always forget an element and create an a contrario. Moreover, it seems inappropriate to define only public decisions, not private projects with an impact on the environment. All these reasons led the committee to deliver an unfavourable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u193	I understand your point, Minister Garot, and your amendment is intellectually interesting. But you said it yourself, the prescription is a start. I am not sure that this text is the right legislative vehicle for introducing such provisions. In any case, the Government is also engaged in a reflection – which is a diplomatic way of saying "a change" – on how to work within the National Council of Ecological Transition. I stand at the disposal of parliamentarians – MPs or senators – who would like to work on it. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u194	Are you withdrawing the amendment, Mr Garot?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u195	[[Smile]] That's good because it's you, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u196	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u197	By inserting a new paragraph in Article L.121-17 II of the Environmental Code, we wish to strengthen public participation, which was enshrined in the Aarhus Convention and in Article 2 of the Environmental Charter. Order No. 2016-1060 of 3 August 2016 opened the possibility of referral to the National Commission for Public Debate through a citizens' initiative. We want to significantly increase the participation of citizens in environmental decisions. We therefore ask that the local consultations imposed by the administrative authority be no longer optional, that is to say at the sole discretion of the prefect concerned, but mandatory if the reasonable threshold of 10,000 people living in the affected territories – at the level of the overseas region or territorial community – is reached within two months.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u198	What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u199	You would like the prefect, once he has received a petition of 10,000 natural persons residing in the region concerned, to require the contracting authority to organise a consultation. This would be a new procedure, in addition to the right of initiative and the organisation of consultation at the initiative of the Prefect. This is not the subject of the text on prior consultation following a right of initiative. Indeed, the right of initiative will pass through the prefect's filter. In my view, it is a balance solution that must be maintained because it appears justified. It is necessary to check whether the material conditions – residence, nationality, number – of the right of initiative are met, whether the right of initiative concerns a project eligible for that right and whether the conditions of impact are met. The fact that the prefect can choose in opportunity therefore seems satisfactory. For all these reasons, the committee gave an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u201	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] I said it in committee, I say it again here: I am not in favour of this amendment for the simple reason that its wording makes the prefect disappear. But the prefect's filter is a useful filter, which allows the debate to unfold. Following a comment in committee that the prefect could be a brake, we agreed collectively that today, when a prefect is subjected to real popular pressure in favour of organising a debate, he organizes it. Finally, I would like to remind you that the prefects are, incidentally, under the orders of the Government, which is controlled by Parliament. So many reasons not to be wary of the prefect! In any case, I, who am a convinced Republican, do not trust the prefectural body and I trust it. I therefore invite you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u202	To be a true republican is not to be blindly trusted in power, it is to rely on counter-powers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u203	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u204	There were two reasons why we did not vote on this amendment in committee. The first is the utility of the prefect's filter. The second is that we are here in the area of consultation where the thresholds have been defined in percentage terms. However, it seemed to us that the threshold of 10,000 people could be more difficult to reach in rural areas than in urban or peri-urban areas. That is why we will not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u205	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u206	No, Madam President. I just wanted to say to the Secretary of State that it would be desirable not to caricature our remarks. I've never been distrustful of the prefects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u207	In this case, you do not have the floor, dear colleague. I give it to Mr Loïc Prud'homme to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u208	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The second paragraph of Article L.122-1 of the Environmental Code covers the concepts of natural environment and landscape. We propose to amend it. Indeed, we are faced with many projects in particular peri-urban areas, where fields are transformed into shopping centres or airports, where Natura 2000 areas are declassified to become golf courses, where forested environments in already dense agglomerations are sacrificed. To ensure that these projects in particular areas benefit from impact studies, and because the concept of landscape seems too imprecise to us, we propose to insert the words "rural, urban and coastal" after the word "landscape".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u209	What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u210	You want to add elements to this paragraph to try to define what a landscape is. But they bring nothing in normative terms and are probably incomplete. Why "rural, urban and coastal" and not "mountain"? Our colleague Lassalle, if he is still with us, will certainly agree with me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u211	Let's add it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u212	Why not "lake" either? We need to avoid making a chatty law. I therefore ask the authors of the amendment to withdraw it, otherwise the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u213	Thank you, Mr. Prud'homme!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u215	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I agree with the purpose of your amendment, Mr President. But when you start writing in this way, you inevitably forget things. In this case, the Piton de la Fournaise à la Réunion or Mont-Blanc would not fall within the scope of your amendment. I would therefore kindly ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u216	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u217	With the same benevolence, I propose to add the adjectives "mountain", "lake"...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u218	What about "submarine"?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u219	You'll always forget about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u220	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u221	As I announced, I'm coming back under the order. A large number of projects, of a diverse nature and size, will no longer be subject to a systematic environmental assessment. At best, they will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, and even in this case the thresholds have been significantly raised, when projects are not simply excluded. There are many examples of urban planning projects, facilities, works, works and development under the Water Act, as well as infrastructure. The "net clause" appears in the Vernier report, whose improvements so much cited this evening have been highly inspired. This clause would allow for an environmental assessment of a small project, not covered by the review regime on a case-by-case basis but located in a sensitive or fragile receiving environment. With its abandonment, the text makes a step backwards in the field of environmental protection, in addition to being in conflict with European law. We therefore propose, without deleting any reference to the concept of thresholds, to open up to the executive power the possibility of putting in place by regulation this famous "net clause" whose absence, in our view, is one of the most serious gaps in the text. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I understand, Mr Secretary of State, that you have referred to the possibility of a new review in committee for a concerted and legally consolidated approach to this "net clause". Do you confirm this intention?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u223	Chapter II of Article L. 122-1 of the Environmental Code transposes the definition given by the 2011 Directive of projects requiring an environmental assessment. It therefore assumes that "projects which, by their nature, size or location, are likely to have a significant impact on the environment or human health shall be subject to such an assessment [...]". Second, Article L. 122-1 refers to a list of criteria and thresholds which is laid down by regulation but which must be based on the list contained in the Directive. Finally, writing "criteria or thresholds" instead of "criteria and thresholds" is not desirable: it may be appropriate to combine a criterion and a threshold in order to define a category of projects. For example, a criterion relating to the location of the project – such as areas with high population density – will be chosen and it will be specified in a second phase that "high population density" corresponds in France to a number of inhabitants per square kilometre. For these reasons, the committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u225	The same view, for the reasons I have already mentioned at length and despite the intellectual interest of such a reversal of our normative system that would sweep away the notion of thresholds. A point of law: there is no problem of compliance with European law if one is on the ground of participation. On the other hand, there are difficulties with evaluation and that is why this has been corrected. I therefore propose to you, Mr President, that, in the course of committee and public sittings, one day we go back through the big door with a text which could, in a way, reverse the table on the subject. In due course, the Government should express its opinion. For the time being, I would be grateful if you would withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u226	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u227	The purpose of this amendment is to create an additional article after Article 2, which reads as follows: "The second paragraph of Article L. 122-1 II shall be supplemented by a sentence which reads as follows: Facilities classified for the protection of the environment subject to authorisation, under the conditions laid down in Title I of Book V, shall necessarily be subject to an environmental assessment under Article R. 122-2. » Indeed, installations classified for the protection of the environment, especially those subject to authorisation by the administrative authority, present by the very existence of their classification – I quote article L. 511-1 of the Environmental Code – "hazards or disadvantages either for the convenience of the neighbourhood, or for health, safety, public safety, or for agriculture, or for the protection of nature, the environment and landscapes, or for the rational use of energy, or for the conservation of sites and monuments as well as elements of the archaeological heritage [...]" The Order of August 3, 2016, the bill of which is seeking ratification, and its implementing order, have substantially re-engineered the ECI regime by amending the Schedule to Article R. 122-2 of the Environmental Code from a regime where environmental assessment was mandatory to a regime where such mandatory assessment is now the exception. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] We therefore want to maintain the mandatory nature of the environmental assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u229	Dear colleague, this amendment presents a legal problem on the form and seems to me to be irrelevant on the substance. On the form, a legislative text may not refer to a regulatory provision. On the merits, the Ordinance and its implementing decree have indeed led to certain ICPEs remaining within the scope of the systematic assessment – this is the case for the most important quarries, wind farms or cattle farms – while other ICPEs are only subject to this assessment after a case-by-case examination. It should be noted that, in any event, any PBCI project is the subject of an impact assessment under the specific PBCI authorization procedure. Although this CIPE impact study is lighter and faster than an environmental assessment, no CIPE project is exempt. For these reasons, we give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u231	Madam Member, the opinion is unfavourable. The Government wishes to retain the benefits of the 2011 simplification effort, under which studies are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u232	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u233	[["Good evening! » on the benches of the REM group]] Good morning, Madam President. No! It's past midnight! [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] We have been talking a lot since the beginning of this debate about thresholds and criteria. As we look at the transcription of European law into French law, we must take account of European case law. In this regard, I would like to point out that, in a judgment of 24 March 2011, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that all these thresholds and criteria are indicative and that any project likely to have a significant impact on the environment should be subject to an environmental assessment. This is the "net clause" that we have already mentioned. This clause should apply to all the projects defined by the Court, and we believe it is necessary to bring French law into line with European case law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u235	I agree with the Government's unfavorable view on the "net clause".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u237	Unfavorable opinion under the same arguments as those used in relation to Mr Wulfranc's amendment. I have replied to you on European case law, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u238	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u239	Good evening, or hello, we don't know anymore! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As you understand, the principle of compensation does not satisfy us. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is not to act on this principle. Indeed, as I said earlier, it seems difficult to determine the extent of compensation to be applied for the relocation of a wetland. Similarly, how can compensation for ecosystem destruction be assessed? Some things are thought to be uncompensable because they are unencryptable. That is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u240	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u241	I would like to remind you, my dear colleague, that, during the examination of the text in committee, we have taken the necessary steps to ensure that the provisions of the ordinances are aligned with the wording of the principle "avoid, reduce, compensate", which is contained in the law of 8 August 2016 for the reconquest of biodiversity. This Act amended article L. 110-1 of the Environmental Code, so that it is clear that compensation is only the last-rate solution. It is not useful to amend another article of the Environmental Code to this effect. I would therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u242	Mr rapporteur, is Amendment No 7 a co-ordination amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u243	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u244	Mr rapporteur, is Amendment No 6 drafting?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u245	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u246	Mr rapporteur, is Amendment No 12 corrected an amendment of editorial coordination?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u247	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u248	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u249	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u250	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u251	Mr Secretary of State, I would not like us to leave a misunderstanding. Amendment No 12 corrected refers to Corsica, where it is known that the Internet connection does not always work very well. It may happen that my Corsican buddies are unable to put a petition online and thereby obtain the 500 000 signatures required. If I want to sign their proposal, I can't do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u252	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 25, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u253	We return to the consequences of the Danthony case-law, which is now systematically applied by the administrative courts to reduce the number of procedural irregularities which may constitute grounds for annulment of administrative decisions. The Council of State, in its Danthony decision, established the principle that a decision affected by a procedural defect was illegal only if it appeared from the documents in the file that that defect had been likely to influence the meaning of the decision taken or that it had deprived the persons concerned of a guarantee. This case law, contested by environmental protection associations, has led to a turning point in the judge's assessment of procedural defects in environmental law. It has led to regularisation of the impact assessment deficiencies and many procedural deficiencies, such as those of a public inquiry. The court may thus allow the ex post regularisation of procedural defects which should in principle have led to the illegality of the contested decision, provided that they have not had the effect of damaging the complete information of the population. This only criterion of good information to the public, which has been set out in the case law, seems to us to be really inadequate. If we want to protect the environment better, it is important for us to be able to invalidate decisions with procedural defects, especially since the judge refuses in practice to base his decision on the substantial or not the shortcomings found. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u255	My dear colleague, article 70 of the Law of 17 May 2011 on simplification and improvement of the quality of the law, and the jurisprudence of the Council of State have no other ambition but to avoid the annulment, for reasons of form, of decisions which do not pose a substantive problem. The aim is to streamline and make administrative procedures more effective, in order to avoid unjustified cancellations, resulting in delays. To sanction any procedural errors, including those which have no bearing on the meaning of the decision, would entail only additional procedural costs and an extension of time limits, without benefit for the quality of the decision or the quality of the consultation. At the very least, it would be paradoxical to punish with the greatest severity the errors of form committed by the administration at the time when one refers to the introduction of a right to error for individuals. For these reasons, I express an opinion against the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u257	Mr Wulfranc, I have already had the opportunity to reply to you on this subject by affirming our willingness not to question simplification efforts. Some aspects of this issue could indeed be discussed during the consideration of the Right to Mistake Bill. You'll allow me to express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u258	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u259	According to the fifth paragraph of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly may meet after one hour in the morning either on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents to consider a specific agenda, or on a proposal from the committee on its merits, a group chairman or the Government to continue the current debate. In the latter case, it shall be consulted without debate by the President. The extension of the evening sitting beyond the schedule referred to in paragraph 4 shall be permitted only to complete an ongoing discussion. What is the current framework?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u260	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] There are two amendments to be considered, Ms.Panot, and we are here to conclude the discussion of this bill. We're only going to exceed the schedule by a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u261	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u262	This amendment takes up an excellent proposal put forward during the previous parliamentary term by Mrs Sabine Buis, a very competent parliamentarian who had worked on the issues we are discussing this evening. It wanted to define the category of environmental partners better so that the collèges of actors invited to the national consultation bodies could be convened under unquestionable conditions, the first of which is the National Energy Transition Council, the CNTE.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u264	Your proposal joins Amendment No 8, and you will allow me to give you a few further explanations justifying our unfavourable opinion. The request for a report would most certainly duplicate all the preparatory work for the drafting of the orders, such as the Richard Report for the CNTE and the Vernier Report on Environmental Assessment. These proposals ignore the most recent developments since they date from the beginning of 2016. The issues relating to voluntary associations raised by this amendment are much broader than the scope of this project. It may be recalled, however, that the text of the Ordinance significantly reinforces the right of associations, with the creation of a right of initiative for their benefit, the dissemination of their expertise and the obligation to justify a refusal to submit a request for additional expertise.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u266	Mr Garot, I express an unfavorable opinion for the same reasons of form as before. The novelty of your text is the recognition of the status of voluntary associations, and this is too important a subject to be included in French law at one o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u267	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u268	It's an hour and ten in the morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u269	The purpose of this amendment is to request the Government to submit to Parliament, within three months of the enactment of this Act, an information report on the environmental, human and economic impacts of major infrastructure projects under way. As I explained earlier, we fear that these new rights granted to citizens will not be effective. What is certain is that the projects already launched will not be affected by the ordinances. At a time when these projects are extremely contested – – the amendment cites the A45 motorway, the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport, the high-speed line from Lyon to Turin or the EuropaCity complex – it seems to us important to have reliable information. The report would cover the costs and possible additional costs associated with delays, which are common in these major projects, potential or proven conflicts of interest, environmental impacts and studies, the impact on employment, working conditions of the persons employed, and take stock of the evolution of the price and quality of the service rendered. We believe that such elements are necessary in order to conduct a sound democratic debate on these projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u271	Dear colleague, allow me to remind you that this amendment does not take into account all the preparatory work for this reform – I am thinking in particular of Senator Richard's report for the CNTE. You can trust us: all these projects were carefully examined before the prescriptions were drafted. These subjects also deserve to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis in their respective procedural frameworks. For these reasons, we are giving an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u273	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Unfavorable opinion for the same reasons as those put forward by the rapporteur and in committee. The purpose of these orders is precisely, Madam Member, to deal with the cases you cite in your amendment. I would so much like you to be one of us to participate in this important step forward in our positive law, rather than be opposed to this text. By voting against this bill, you are sure that the citizens will ultimately have fewer rights in the proceedings, while by voting in favour of it, you would go along with the great progress that the Government is proposing this evening in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u274	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Marie Sermier, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u275	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the environment is really everyone's business, and we could have found on this relatively technical text, the purpose of which is to fluidise the procedure and to consult more simply all our fellow citizens, a consensus allowing everyone to associate themselves with it, according to the wish just expressed by the Secretary of State. Members of the Republican Group have tabled a number of amendments to this text. We did not want to drown the committee under a flood of amendments, merely submitting a few simple and constructive proposals. Unfortunately, we did not win. You did, however, recognize him yourself, Mr. Secretary of State, and implore the wisdom of the Assembly. You could have considered that our proposals consolidated your text from a legal point of view, so as to avoid a number of disputes and irregularities in the future. You wish Members to be constructive, but when we want to co-build you do not respond to our proposals. That is why, as we originally announced, we will not vote against the text, but we will abstain, with the feeling that a great opportunity for unanimity has been missed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u276	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u277	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Secretary of State for the fruitful dialogue that we have had in committee and in session. With regard to the text, we consider that it has reached a balance, allowing the legitimate participation of citizens in decisions which have an impact on the environment while ensuring the safety of project promoters. For these reasons, the Le République en marche group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u278	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Left Democratic and Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u279	We note that on the two key points that we felt should draw your attention, in particular the "net clause", the answers of the Secretary of State remain below our expectations. We will therefore vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u280	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u281	We have focused on three areas in the discussion of this text. Firstly, compensation does not seem to us to be relevant to these environmental problems. Secondly, the problem of thresholds, which has been raised by many other colleagues, calls into question the effectiveness of the law that you claim to create. Thirdly, the major projects under way, which my colleague mentioned a few moments ago, are not taken into account. These elements make us think that the text is not up to the environmental emergency, which we referred to in the preamble. We will therefore vote against the draft resolution. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You said earlier, Madam Chair of the Committee, that there was nothing more harmful in democracy than an inapplicable right. We can only agree with that. Unfortunately, we fear that this right cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u282	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Garot, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u283	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Because we have had constructive debates in committee, because the Government's commitments have been made this evening on important points that we discussed in the general debate, I am pleased to announce that the New Left Group will vote in favour of the bill that is before us tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u284	Mr Bruno Millienne, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u285	As our colleague has just said, we have had constructive debates in committee, and assurances have just been given to us. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill. We regret, however, that there is no consensus in this House on environmental issues. Within the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, we prefer to see glass half full rather than half empty glass. This small message is addressed to our friends in La France, who are indifferent: this text introduces progress, it goes in the right direction and you could at least have abstained instead of voting against it. We can call you ladies and gentlemen. More, like the Bahlsen cookie mascot, because you want more and more while you can already enjoy some notable progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u286	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u287	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u288	Since it is more than an hour in the morning, I wish you good night, Mr Lachaud: wishing you a good day would seem to be in contradiction with your group's beliefs about night work. [[New applause on the same benches]] In any case, I would like to thank the House for its confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-18-E1014.u289	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion of three bills ratifying orders relating to the modernization of our health care system. The meeting is adjourned.
