ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u1	The next item is the debate on a new reading of the bill ending research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons and laying down various provisions relating to energy and the environment (No. 370, 417, 392). I should like to inform you that, at the request of the committee, pursuant to Rule 95(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will, after the general discussion, give priority to Rules 4 to 5b.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u2	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, each of you probably still has in mind what the scientific community announced to us once again during COP 23, and which unfortunately came to confirm other reports: in the fight against climate change, the window of opportunity is narrowing and the threshold of the irreversible is approaching. I recognize it, we even get used to this kind of message. But we must keep ourselves – I am the first – from this terrible temptation, that of resignation. To see things in a positive light, let us say that scientists have reminded us that, without further action in the face of climate change, we are exposed to a major risk of destabilising ecosystems, which are simply – everyone knows it, but we also end up forgetting it – the substrate of our lives on this tiny and precious planet. It is therefore no longer time to procrastinate: it is now necessary to initiate the urgent movement of fossil fuels. The text that brings us together today simply proposes to drop the moorings that attach us to a twilight world, that of fossil fuels. I will not dwell on this, because I know that, for most of you, I do not need to convince you. But it was important to recall this word of science, because science must be the cornerstone of our reflections and even more so, today and tomorrow, of our action. The bill that must put an end to the research and exploitation of conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons comes before you, unfortunately, after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. Indeed, the text voted by the Senate at first reading contained far too many provisions that distorted its objective so that a compromise could be reached, despite many improvements, which I take note of. Let me tell you quickly how much I appreciated the work done by your assembly to improve the text, in particular by framing the right of continuation in order to materialize the end of the vast majority of oil production in France by 2040. I also know that together we have improved the text to identify – it was not simple – what is known as unconventional hydrocarbons. This text, although not yet adopted, gives our country, I have seen, real credibility on the international stage in the fight against climate change. This credibility is never gained. We have obtained a share of it thanks to our contribution to the Paris Agreement, but it can be eroded if we are not up to the point now that it is about implementing this agreement. However, we need it to draw other countries into our dynamics and to associate them with our demands. Indeed, the text reflects our commitment and determination to the goal we have set ourselves, which I have set myself, and which enhances the commitments we made during the Paris Agreement: carbon neutrality by 2050. He is the only one who meets the demands that science imposes on us. Thanks to the work done together, the text makes it possible to program a smooth transition – some consider it brutal, but it will only be so if we delay planning and organizing it –, serene and irreversible for the companies as for the territories and the employees concerned. It is precisely because this text is strong, because it expresses a vision and translates it into action that we cannot be content with the Senate version. Indeed, I am convinced that, in terms of ecological transition, the word of the State must be strong, clear, without hesitation and without ambiguity. This is even more true of the law, which must define a clear framework for everyone to be there. I have already said it, just repeating what science says, but some – not here – insist not to hear it: we must leave behind us, or rather under our feet, in the basement, 80% of the hydrocarbon reserves to have a chance – it is not certain – to stay below two centigrade degrees of warming. There is no ambiguity, no debate. However, some of the changes introduced by the Senate, and over which work in committee has allowed us to come back, were, at least, likely to cast doubt on our determination to combat global warming. On non-energy uses, i.e. in the plastics, hydrocarbons industry, on current permits, on the overseas – which, I would remind you, is one of the regions most exposed to the consequences of climate change – or on the question of research, these changes seemed to distort the text by introducing doubts that jeopardize the irreversibility that the Government seeks to print in the fight against climate change. First of all, with regard to the use of hydrocarbons, not for energy, but for industry, especially petrochemicals, the logic that has been at work in the Senate is in my view contrary to the spirit of the bill, which is intended precisely to include in the law the removal of the production and consumption of fossil fuels. I do not see how we can distinguish between hydrocarbons used for non-energy use and those intended for energy use. This is indeed the signal of a transformation that we want to give, including to certain sectors, such as chemistry or plastics, which must also learn to do without fossil fuels. In particular, the Government's goal is that 100% of plastics be recycled by 2022, even though this industry produces waste that is not recycled and that is found everywhere in our oceans, to the point of forming the plastic continent you know. The amendments adopted in the Senate thus blur the way forward by not giving the right signals to economic actors. However, it is essential to keep it in mind, we have all the champions of green chemistry, who innovate and seek substitutes, especially of plant origin, to which we must give a clear and clear horizon. It is best to favour a circular economy logic that will promote the competitiveness of our companies. Let me turn to the question, which has been discussed both in the House and in the Senate, of research and geological knowledge of our basement. It is essential and I share the spirit of it. But the Senate has introduced amendments to maintain the possibility of granting permits for the search for hydrocarbons. However, I do not understand that we are granting research permits if there is no right of continuation, because I do not see what the economic logic would be. No one will invest in research unless there is a right of exploration. It would also weaken the law, because economic actors could put pressure on us to ask us for rights of continuation, even if it is not possible. As for the substance, we are facing two challenges. The first is the knowledge of our basement, some of which imagine that it will be lost without the search for hydrocarbons. That is not true: we will continue to seek to understand our basement, because we need it, not least to capture its potential for geothermal energy, but also in other areas. Then, some are alarmed at the loss of competence of French engineers and geologists. I can understand that, but let us not be naive: it has been elsewhere for years, on large deposits, that this expertise is being built, and certainly not in France. I would point out that 80% of the business activity in the sector is located abroad. With regard to the current licence applications, i.e. the licences that have already been applied for, but for which no response has yet been given, some propose, if you allow me to say so, to row against the current. The objective of the Paris agreement is to get out of fossil fuels if we want to achieve the famous carbon neutrality and try to contain global warming below two centigrade degrees. Permits under examination do not enjoy the right of continuation, as they have not been granted. It is in the interest of the bill to give the right signals and clarify the situation. So why grant permits when we know we're going to have to do without fossil fuels? In view of the principle of coherence that I am trying to keep in mind, very sincerely, I do not find myself there. It would ultimately be a kind of lie to economic actors; That would make no sense. However, if we are responsible – and we are – we cannot afford to give signals that are contrary to the policies we want to carry out. In summary, for the Government, there are two cases: those of the permits already granted, which we have clearly identified, which enjoy a right of continuation and will be able to make use of them, since we have obviously not returned to this right of continuation; that of unlicensed permits, which will be refused. The same applies to overseas countries and territories: the Government has chosen coherence; the fight against climate change is not limited to the metropolis. Beyond these elements, which you have contributed to the evolution of each other in order to restore to the bill its original ambition, the Senate has nevertheless made it possible to make progress, including on an important and urgent subject, the storage of gas, by incorporating into the text the main provisions that avoid the use of an order. I count on you to resume the text, give it its breath and relevance, and not to give a sign of weakness in this period of lethargy that I was able to observe at COP 23. Indeed, as I said, starting with a tragic intuition, I feel the temptation to say that we have lost the battle. I don't think we can measure the consequences. I was in Geneva yesterday at the headquarters of the International Organization for Migration. Today, there are twice as many climate-displaced people as those associated with conflict. We're already in trouble! We can't weaken. I'm just asking you to help me plant an essential tree,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u4	A forest!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u5	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ...under which we may not have time to shelter ourselves, but our children will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u6	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u7	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again meeting to discuss this bill which puts an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and which contains various provisions on energy and the environment. Between the committee and the sitting at first reading, the Joint Joint Committee which did not end up in the Senate, the committee and today's sitting in a new reading, it is for the fifth time that I am led to make a speech on this text – experience will allow me to return to President François de Rugy on the possible simplification of our legislative procedures – and I will therefore go to the essential, in my speech, because many things have already been said and repeated on the text. The Joint Joint Committee, which met on 21 November to try to find a way of compromise between the National Assembly and the Senate, has therefore devoted a disagreement on the text, but also and above all the expression of two widely divergent visions of the ecological transition and the necessary fight against climate change. Of course, three sections of the bill were passed in the same language by both assemblies, and a few additions of undeniable interest and usefulness were introduced by the Senate. This is particularly the case for the new Article 6b allowing municipalities to accompany the deployment of gas or hydrogen refuelling points for vehicles; for the new Article 10, which constitutes a reform of the rules on the maritime transport of hydrocarbons; or for the new Article 11 which constitutes a welcome development of the scheme of energy saving certificates. On the other hand, on the central and fundamental points of the bill, it must be noted that the Senate has introduced a number of exceptions to distort the text and deprive it of its practical scope. These various derogations illustrate a pastist and defensive vision of the ecological transition. For example: the derogation for non-energy hydrocarbons – major countersense, as you said, Minister of State, on what the evolution of our industrial model should be for the next decades – the derogation in case of valorisation for related uses; the exemption to accept licence applications filed before July 6, 2017, thereby doubling the number of valid licences; the derogation for the overseas countries, at the very moment when all our territories should turn to the energies of the future rather than to fossil fuels. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, there are disagreements that have the merit of clarity. In the National Assembly, for our part, we want an ambitious and concrete text. We do not want to hide behind our little finger by introducing, as the Senate has done, a series of exceptions that would deprive the bill of its political meaning and practical scope. We will send a strong signal, making France the first country in the world to decide to leave its hydrocarbons in the basement. For this new passage in the Chamber, I propose – and you will not be surprised – to return, for the vast majority of the articles, to the text that we adopted at first reading. The Committee on Sustainable Development, at its meeting on 22 November, adopted 115 amendments. Among the main changes made to the text are: the reintroduction of Article 1A which ratifies the Ordinance of 20 January 2011 on the codification of the legislative part of the mining code; the removal of exemptions in the Senate; the re-establishment of Article 2 in the Assembly's version; the reintroduction of demand for certain reports, e.g. on the carbon intensity of imported hydrocarbons. The Minister of State, Nicolas Hulot, has often recalled this during the debates in the National Assembly: this bill putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons is a symbolic text, but not only. The Senate's position, anachronistic in many respects, proves that the text is not confined to the symbol, but that it engages France very concretely in a more sustainable and fairer post-oil economic development. Today, with this bill, we are dealing with the hydrocarbon production side: it is an impulse towards other devices that will of course be necessary – in particular, a set of measures and laws that will intervene, over the course of the quinquennium, to also act on the reduction of energy consumption, on the financing of the ecological transition and on the development of new energies. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] COP23 has just ended in Germany, under the chairmanship of Fiji, a friendly and front-line country to see the dramatic consequences of climate change. At the same time, a few days ago, 15,000 scientists from 184 countries made an unprecedented appeal to denounce the catastrophic degradation of our environment. In the face of such a situation, let us not remain indifferent and let us be at the rendezvous of history. If we want to see a more sustainable model of society emerge, we must assume our responsibilities and leave fossil fuels in the basement, considering that they no longer represent the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u8	Mrs Célia de Lavergne, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u9	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together for a new reading of the bill, following the unfortunate failure of the Joint Joint Committee. While the Senate has been able to make improvements to the text resulting from the first reading in the Assembly, it has unfortunately defended, on the whole, a retrograde, pastist view of what the energy transition and the future of our industrial sites should be – in particular, by allowing the exploitation of hydrocarbons for non-energy use, on the pretext that they would not emit greenhouse gases and on the grounds that alternative solutions would not exist. This ambitious and responsible bill, however, found a balance in our assembly, bearing the ambition of a strong, symbolic and engaging text for France in the fight against climate change, while ensuring that our territories, our companies and the industrial sites concerned are preserved and that they are included in a vision of the future of the ecological and solidarity transition. As rapporteur in substance on Articles 4 and 5, my remarks will focus on this. I would like to thank the Minister of State and the rapporteur for having them examined as a matter of priority. Articles 4, 5 and after Article 5 contain useful, if not urgent, provisions for the success of the energy transition, while ensuring our security of supply and protecting end consumers. On these very technical articles, I would like to highlight the important co-construction work that has been done by Members of Parliament and senators. Article 4, on gas storage, has been enriched in the Senate. The article adopted by the Assembly in early October empowered the Government to reform the gas storage system by order. The Senate has incorporated the content of the draft ordinance, which has been the subject of consultations since the summer between the various actors. If the Senate was able to do so, it was because the consultation with gas stakeholders had made significant progress in parallel with the parliamentary review of the bill. Certain provisions, which are still under discussion, are referred to decrees. The current version resulting from parliamentary work is likely to allow the reform to be implemented before the start of the April 2018 gas campaign. It is very much expected by the actors and indispensable for the security of gas supply to the French and French. On Article 4, I tabled an amendment to extend to transmission system operators an existing provision for distributors. This measure, known as tariff refraction, allows up to 40% of the costs of connecting biogas producers to the tariff. The provision will contribute to the biogas development objectives set by the multi-annual energy programming: 1.7 terawatt hour of biomethane injection into the gas network in 2018 and 8 terawatt hours in 2023. Rules 5 and 5 bis A were voted in the Senate in the same spirit as the text resulting from the first reading in the Assembly: the 5 conform, the 5 bis A amended with a simple technical precision. Article 5a provides that the cost of connecting offshore wind turbines will no longer be borne financially by the producer but will be borne by the electricity transmission system operator – TEN. At first reading, the Senate had extended the compensation scheme, originally provided for damage on the only underwater part of the connection, to its terrestrial part. An amendment was adopted in committee for further reading in the House to maintain the spirit of the provision voted in the Senate, while remedying the legal uncertainty it posed. The article is now well balanced and should help speed up the implementation of renewable energy projects at sea. France benefits, as I recall, from the second offshore windfield in Europe after Great Britain. The draft right to error, which will be considered shortly, contains provisions to facilitate the development of these energies. Article 5bA legally secures a new scheme for the distribution of electricity which has developed in certain buildings. With regard to Article 5b on the obligation for suppliers to include in supply offers the proportions of natural gas and biomethane in the proposed gas, an amendment was adopted in committee to revert to the drafting of the Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, this bill is a major commitment to the energy transition. It is much more than a symbol; because it contains concrete, engaging and immediate provisions to speed up the French trajectory to combat climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u10	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u11	Mr President, the Minister of State, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we have gathered here for this new reading of the bill putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. If there is, in all likelihood, a final reading by the end of December, there is no doubt that the text presented to us today will be, little or no proof, the text finally adopted. The Joint Joint Committee has not reached an agreement. Although the exchanges were constructive and of high quality, it quickly became clear that the Senate majority had not grasped the climate emergency that is needed for us. While formally accepting the principle, the ban on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons adopted by the Senate included so many derogations that it completely emptied the draft of its meaning: derogations for overseas, for non-energy hydrocarbons, for related hydrocarbons or for research. In addition to these exceptions, the adoption of a date to take into account applications under investigation, which would in practice have permitted even more than forty mineral titles. This is indeed the paradox of the text from the Senate: to set a principle, while completely emptying it from its effects; give yourself a good conscience with a bill of display, without assuming the consequences. These subterfuges are no longer in place today, and we have a duty to act vis-à-vis our fellow citizens and the rest of the world. This means that we must bear in mind the consequences of this text: yes, there will be conversions to be planned; Yes, we must now imagine an economy based on another model. With regard to conversions, the National Assembly adopted, at first reading, after collective work involving Members of Parliament from all walks of life, an amendment providing for the submission of a report on the accompaniment of undertakings and staff affected by the gradual cessation of exploration and exploitation activities, as well as on the conversion of territories. Mr Minister of State, as you have understood, this is not an umpteenth report tabled in Parliament: it is a commitment that binds us all, the elected representatives of the nation, the government, local elected representatives and businesses, in order to commit the territories concerned to a new economic model. It is not a question of repeating today the mistakes made yesterday when the coal mines were closed – I could talk about it at length for having grown up in the mining basin of Pas-de-Calais – or in the cities affected by the closure of military bases. This time, to succeed, we have the time – since the bill set the deadline at 2040 –, the visibility and the tools, as demonstrated last week by the hearing of Mr.Sebastien Lecornu presenting the green transition contracts. We must now work imperatively on the implicit corollary of this text: the search for a new economic model, which no longer relies on excessive consumption of fossil fuels. France must take the lead in this new industrial revolution rich in jobs, and it must be recognised that in terms of renewable energy, we are still far from it. On this subject, I am aware of the determination of the Government, including yours, Minister of State, and I am pleased to note that the bill for a State in the service of a trust society, tabled last Monday, includes two very promising articles on the simplification of the decision-making process in the field of offshore wind and geothermal energy. The text that we are about to vote on is not unanimous, I am well aware of it. Nevertheless, I welcome the excellent attitude that led to the commission's work, allowing for a balanced bill: I am thinking of the provisions relating to the ratification of the Mining Code Legislative Codification Order 2011, the provisions aimed at providing a definition of conventional and non-conventional techniques, the provisions relating to plans for the protection of the atmosphere... On many points, we have made decisive progress and it must be stressed how much this collective work owes to the rapporteur, Jean-Charles Colas-Roy, and to the rapporteur for an opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Célia de Lavergne. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] With regard to the provisions introduced in committee, resulting from this collective mobilisation, I would like to mention a particular one, which provides for a report to be submitted to Parliament on assistance of any kind from the State in support of hydrocarbon research and exploitation activities outside the national territory. Mr Minister of State, as you said, this text must serve as an example to many other countries. To read or hear the comments made after the President of the Republic spoke at COP23, where we were present as part of a committee delegation, there is no doubt that a movement has been launched. The meeting with our colleagues in the Bundestag proved this. Nevertheless – I insist on this point – this example must be the result of conviction. Therefore, I do not think it is possible to prohibit the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons on national soil while supporting such enterprises outside the country by public means. That is the philosophy of the adopted amendment, and I am convinced, Minister of State, that you share this concern. You can at any rate count on our determination, that of the Committee on Sustainable Development, to continue with you this legislative work which enables us to ensure this ecological transition in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u12	I have received a motion from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u13	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Chairperson of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking before you today on behalf of my group, but especially on behalf of Guyana, which I represent on the benches of the National Assembly, this Guyana which the Government refuses to hear despite repeated warnings and the proliferation of protest movements on the territory. Minister of State, in your low-cost communication company, you are taking a collateral victim: Guyana, and with it, the citizens of Guyana; However, Guyana is already one of the country's most tried and tested territories and is now literally on the brink of implosion. I recall that 40 000 Guyanans, almost a fifth of the legal population, went down the street last March and April to cry out for their rabble to live in a society where violence is trivialized, unemployment is endemic and too many young people have no prospect of a future. Minister of State, the famous "nou gon ke sa" of Guyanans means that they have had enough: enough to be forgotten, enough to be ignored, enough to be despised by leaders locked in their Parisian ivory tower, who do not manage to get rid of bad habits inherited from the colonial era. I would remind you that these habits consist of imposing decisions on the Overseas Territories which are not in their interests, often taken in the rush and without even asking them for their opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to fall into the trap of making us believe that the question that divides us is whether we are for or against the fight against global warming, or whether we are convinced or not that we need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. I beseech you, do not fall into this trap of opposing the supposed good guys to the supposed bad guys! No, the question here is whether or not we can accept that the development of our ultramarine territories should be undermined in order to redeem our conscience on the international stage and to play with the good students of green growth, even though these territories are under-industrialized, sparsely populated and would participate only in anecdotal ways in global warming, as the Council of State points out in its opinion of 1 September this year. The question now is whether or not it is acceptable to revisit the December 2000 act of decentralization of offshore mining jurisdiction without even seeking the views of the communities concerned. For imagine for a second your reactions if the Government announced its willingness to return unilaterally, without any consultation, on decentralized competence to communities in the Hexagon. You certainly don't imagine it; Indeed, this would be difficult to conceive of! And yet that is exactly what is happening to the detriment of the overseas communities, in the greatest general disinterest. With this text, we are witnessing no more or less than a kind of blackmail that would make us believe that if we are against the cessation of the search for and exploitation of hydrocarbons in France, it is that we do not want to "save the planet". I would like to point out the terrible blackmail which, at first reading, involved a causal link between, on the one hand, the development ambitions of our territories and, on the other hand, the unfortunate events which have recently affected the West Indies and which have deeply saddened us all. How can you, Minister of State, in conscience, lead us to believe that the provisions of your bill can, by far or near, guarantee us against climate risks such as Hurricane Irma? How can you use this tragic episode to divide within the sea and imply that oil exploitation off the coast of Guyana would be at the expense of the safety of our Caribbean compatriots? It's neither good nor responsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u14	You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u15	Because no one here can reasonably believe that this text will have a decisive climate impact; No, no one. The protection associations themselves do not hesitate to qualify your text as a symbol, without any real impact on the protection of the environment. On the other hand, it is likely to divert the attention of the French from the list to the Prévert of the renunciations that mark your balance sheet after six months past boulevard Saint-Germain. These include the elimination of certain environmental and social standards in the BTP, the abolition of aid for the maintenance of organic farming, the reduction in the ban on neonicotinoids, glyphosate, nuclear power, etc. This has been repeated many times in the course of the debates, but I repeat again: we are talking here about abolishing, over a period of twenty years, the exploitation of a quantity of hydrocarbons representing only 1% of our national consumption. I have said quite well that exploitation and non-consumption, for those of us who have not yet understood the painful confusion between oil production and consumption, and who cause me to fear the worst in terms of the real motivations behind the debate that led to this bill. This 1% of consumption, as well as the remaining 99%, will in any case have to be offset by imports from countries far less concerned about environmental protection than we are. The irony is that Guyanans will most surely be forced to import hydrocarbons from neighbouring countries that are currently embarking on extensive research and resource development campaigns in their subsoils. Mr Minister of State, where is the consistency you mentioned a few moments ago? How can we explain to the Guyanans, who are promised a hypothetical green growth without ever accompanying these promises of concrete and budgeted measures, that they are forbidden to exploit their hydrocarbons while right next door, the giant ExxonMobil has just announced one of the most important hydrocarbon discoveries in the last ten years? We are talking about a potential of nearly $100 billion in revenue with annual tax benefits of close to $1.4 billion for the State of Guyana. This is far more than the emergency plan promised to Guyana on 21 April 2017, published in the Official Journal of the Republic, but whose implementation is now facing enormous difficulties. In this connection, we have discovered, when reading the 2018 budget documents, that there are strong probabilities for Guyana to be forced to finance this contingency plan itself, through a subtle set of accounting writing, whose officials of Bercy have the secret, coupled with a simple remobilisation of existing and already arrowed appropriations towards Guyana. We should note the hypocrisy of banning oil research on our territory, while we welcome the success of the flagship of the French industry Total, which has just announced the acquisition of 25% of the consortium conducting the above-mentioned hydrocarbon research off Guyana, and that the same Total pays $200 million for five exploration permits in the immediate vicinity of the Franco-Brazilian border, thus not far from the Guyana coast. Inevitably, Guyanans will suffer from the potential negative externalities of French oil exploitation in their neighbours, without ever seeing the color of economic spinoffs for their territory. Unlike the Chernobyl cloud, oil spills do not stop at political borders. To hypocrisy, such as being in favour of a CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – encouraging the import of hydrocarbons from Canada, is added a certain cynicism that allows the Government to redeem ecological virginity cheaply while continuing to pollute with impunity from our southern neighbours and asking them over the market to renounce their development ambitions. Rather than banning at home and going to pollute elsewhere, should we not improve or even strengthen our environmental normative framework, already among the strictest on the planet, and thus allow Guyanans to be actors in their common destiny while providing guarantees as to our environmental interests? That is the meaning of the draft law bringing the mining code into line with environmental law, which we adopted at first reading in this House last February. It is true that its implementation now seems to be going back to the Greek calends. During his recent visit to Guyana, the President of the Republic warned local elected officials who, in his view, were surviving the popular anger prevailing in that territory. I want to tell him today that it is precisely the methods chosen to have this bill passed, recalling the time of the colonies, that fuel this popular anger and provide the ground for the self-nomistic, even independent, sentiment that is ready to ignite Guyana. I would like to point out to all intents and purposes that the three Guyanese parliamentarians of the Republic on the March, as well as the majority of the territorial community of Guyana, despite the support of that Government, have all rejected the provisions relating to the cessation of the search for and exploitation of hydrocarbons off the coast of Guyana. I am against the amendments introduced in the Senate, which were to remove overseas from the provisions of the bill. Unfortunately, your majority hastened to abolish them last week in our House's Committee on Sustainable Development. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been drafted in a rush. Would it be motivated only for reasons of display? For – as we have noted – neither the Republic's consultative bodies, nor the local authorities, nor the intermediary bodies, nor the industrialists concerned have been involved in this reflection. However, it is a complex subject, affecting the daily lives of all French and, more particularly, French overseasers. So we need to rework it to lead to a bill that is founded and, above all, shared. It is in this way – and only in this way – that we will prevent this bill from further breaking up with some of our territories, first and foremost Guyana. I say this again: it is not normal that none of the overseas communities competent for offshore mines have been heard, either by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning or by the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u16	He's right: it's not right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u17	This attitude betrays a profound lack of respect for the elected representatives of the territories affected by the bill, which in its present form represents a denial of democracy, as it disregards the competence transferred to the overseas communities by the Orientation Act of 13 December 2000. In truth, Minister of State, what the Guyanans are demanding is to end the postulate of Minister Colbert, who asked that "not a nail come out of the colonies." In other words, it is a matter of putting an end to this economy of counters that does not benefit the overseas countries and territories. Once again, I want to tell you how much we regret the method that has been chosen to get this bill passed. That is why, in the interests of all, I have the honour to propose that it be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u18	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u19	Member, you are defending a just cause; But to defend her, it seems useless to me to be so malicious towards me. I have drawn up a list of the friendly words that you have addressed to me: "colonial relent", "hypocrisy"; you have called me "cynical" and "master singer"; Moreover, you accuse me of being locked in a "Paris ivory tower". [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] On this last point, forgive me for telling you, I think I have a much finer vision of the state of the planet than yours. It was therefore not necessary to use such words. I understand the concern of Guyanans. I understand it so well that I have a higher idea than you of what their future could be, a future oriented towards the economy of the future and not the economy of the past. I'm convinced there's another way. I cannot carry on my shoulders the weight of the turpitudes to which you legitimately refer, and for which I would have suddenly become responsible! Do not transpose on me your own turpitudes: I have never, under any circumstances, opposed Guyana to other ultramarine territories. It would be too easy, it would be unbearable. But this high-profile idea of Guyana prevents me from thinking that this territory can escape – as other territories around the world do – its obligations regarding environmental issues, which are universal. That's just what I wanted to tell you. Undoubtedly some have not played their part, not assumed their responsibilities, in consultation and foresight; It is indeed essential that Guyana emerge from the economic crisis and from the crises that have been repeated, but in order to do so, it must turn to the economy of tomorrow and not to the economy of yesterday. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and NG groups]] We will have the opportunity to talk about it again: but if we want to get out of this situation from the top, we must not engage in such caricatures that – very sincerely – hurt me. You accuse me of having a "colonial touch": I'm sorry, but you're the wrong target!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u20	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee. The next speaker is Mr Jimmy Pahun, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u21	Mr Serville, we understand what you're saying, but remember that our country is that of the Enlightenment. I have learned a word here in the House, where we have been sitting for six months: "paradigm". What we need to do is a paradigm shift. In the twenty-first century, we have the chance to carry out a new industrial revolution, that of the ecological and energy transition. We must all defend this transition, which will be as important as the industrial revolution of coal and gas. Since the beginning of this legislature, we have been talking about new energy, renewable energy, liquefied natural gas, new modes of transport and consumption: we must help the Government to move in this direction. The industrialists, on the other hand, are going in this direction: we must help them. That is why we can only reject your motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u22	Mrs Laure de La Raudière, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the concerns expressed by Gabriel Serville: the economic impact of this text is not negligible for certain territories, including Guyana, which saw their future based on the exploitation of oil and other fossil fuels. That said, referring this text back to committee would bring nothing more to my mind: from the first reading, the case of ultramarine territories has been mentioned, and I doubt that the majority will change their views on this point. I also observe that the "Maritime Guyana" exploration permit was renewed last September, which – at first glance – may seem contradictory to the philosophy of the text. But in this case, as in the case of the right of continuation, these are acquired rights which must be respected, although the balance is necessarily difficult to maintain. Finally, the exception introduced in the Senate was already removed in committee last week. This exception applied to the overseas regions; The only region potentially affected was Guyana. Some things can be blamed for this text, but not for shunning the debate. We will therefore not vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u24	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Bouillon, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u25	Like all of us, I have a lot of respect for Gabriel Serville. It is a voice that carries, a voice that is listened to and respected, but sometimes takes on the accents of anger. We understand this anger when it expresses that of a territory, Guyana, which awaits a great deal. However, it does not allow all excesses. I agree with that, Mr. Minister of State: the vocabulary used by Mr. Serville, the expressions he used, were probably intended to defend a good cause, but were inappropriate not only for the Minister of State, but also for the text we are considering today. With regard to the need to look to the future, Barbara Pompili will allow me to recall the vote in this Chamber on the law of 8 August 2016 for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes. What did we say at that time? That Guyana, in particular, and other overseas territories, concentrate most of the biodiversity. This is the future; To use the phrase used a few moments ago by my colleague Jimmy Pahun, we need to change paradigms. At the same time, the concerns expressed by Gabriel Serville must also be taken into account. I therefore suggest, in order to answer these questions, that in the context of ecological and solidarity transition contracts the emphasis be placed on Guyana. But this does not concern this text. We will not vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u27	Mr Matthieu Orphelin has the floor for the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u28	The La République en marche group will obviously not vote on this motion to refer it back to committee. I would like to point out that the text has already been examined twice in committee, so everyone has been able to defend their arguments there. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I also associate myself with the comments made by previous speakers: I was surprised and disappointed by the arguments put forward by Mr Serville in a very strict argument, without any nuance, which seemed to me completely out of step with regard to the issues at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u29	In the general debate, Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u30	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the draftswoman for opinion, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the House, here we are again meeting to look at this bill ending the search for and exploitation of hydrocarbons after – I must say so – a passage in the Senate that is hurtful for the very spirit of this text. The multiplicity of derogations sought by our fellow senators made the aim of this bill, that of France's strong climate contribution to reducing CO emissions, obsolete. I therefore welcome the fact that Members, during the committee's re-reading, have returned to the compromise and consensus text adopted at first reading in the House. All political groups had been able to amend the Government Bill; They have thus contributed to its improvement. By the way, I welcome the adoption of my group's amendments on matters of particular interest to us. I am thinking first of all of accompaniment to the territories, which we consider essential. Employees will be affected by the gradual cessation of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. The deadline, set at 2040, could lead our researchers, physicists, geophysicists, engineers, technicians and other professionals in the sector to expatriate to distant countries pursuing the exploitation of hydrocarbons by deep drilling. Amendments were adopted at first reading to maintain our expertise on French soil by reorienting know-how towards renewable energies such as geothermal energy or hydrogen. Thus, before the end of a concession, the operator will submit a file presenting the different alternatives of conversion of the site. The Government will also consider possibilities for retraining. Secondly, I would like to recall the important consensus-building work on the Lacq gas derogation to which the MODEM Group is deeply committed. In Lacq, in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, the exploitation of sulphide gas benefits from industrial outlets and supplies energy to an important area. This is to preserve an activity based on the extraction of a gas generated during the operation of a mining substance. In this sense, this extraction is not one of the practices that the bill tends to prohibit; It is not contrary to the spirit of the text. We welcome the dialogue efforts made at first reading in the National Assembly. I regret the fundamental differences between Members of Parliament and senators: they reflect a great difference of views about the future and about the efforts to be made, collectively, to protect our planet. Most of the antagonisms crystallized on the first articles of the text dealing with the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. For the Senate majority, this text would have no impact on reducing greenhouse gas emissions because it would not target hydrocarbon consumption. To this concern, I respond that this bill is a piece of the great puzzle of the energy transition. It is the corollary of other legislation that requires us to reduce our consumption of fossil fuels. I'll mention three of them. First, the law of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth, which you all know: it sets the target of a 30% reduction in our fossil energy consumption by 2030. I would stress that this is a commitment to reducing energy consumption. Secondly, the Paris Agreement, by which 196 States committed themselves to reducing oil production and consumption. Thirdly, the development of renewable energy: the deputies adopted, at the first reading, an amendment by the Government aimed at simplifying the connection of renewable energy installations at sea and thus at energizing the development of these techniques. The important thing is research in the fields of the future. I take this opportunity to reassure our opposition colleagues: research in the basement is not the exclusive of the oil industry. Thus, the cessation of hydrocarbon research and exploitation will not lead to the disappearance of this sector, which has in recent years been oriented towards geothermal energy, energy storage and other areas of diversification. This text is a first step: France will put an end to the production and exploitation of oil on its territory, but will also, step by step, reduce its imports by embarking on important transitions and developing renewable energies. This is the famous paradigm shift highlighted earlier by Jimmy Pahun. And then the implementation of the climate plan will have its complementary effects. The fight against global warming cannot be reduced to this law because it is a work of substance, of pedagogy, and in this regard I would like to refer to your remarks to the Senate, Minister of State, when you explained that the objective was also to accelerate cultural transformation. The changes to be made are also behavioural changes, they are not decreed, they will happen through the adoption of various initiatives inviting our fellow citizens to take their full part in the protection of their common heritage: our planet. As such, this bill is the cornerstone of a large building that we still have to build in the long term.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u31	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u32	This emblematic text positions France as the first country in the world to prohibit the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons on its territory. France confirms its leadership role in the fight against climate change. It encourages other countries to join it, in its wake and in the continuity of the Paris Agreement. I have referred to the substantive disagreements between the Senate and the Assembly. However, some positive points should be noted at the initiative of senators. These differences must therefore not obscure the interest of their reflections, in particular on Articles 4 to 5b. I therefore welcome the inclusion in the text of the reference to ecological transition contracts, confirming what the MODEM and related groups had requested. While these contracts remain to be specified in terms of resources, missions and linkages with other arrangements, we all know that this will be done in consultation with all stakeholders, including local and regional authorities. I would also like to welcome the inclusion in section 11, by senators, of a provision to address the difficulties faced by small businesses selling domestic fuel oil during the transition to the fourth three-year EWC bond period – Energy Saving Certificates – which will begin on January 1, 2018. It became necessary to amend the regime of obligations on domestic fuel oil as soon as possible. Otherwise, this sector would have found itself in great difficulty because of the small size of the distribution companies: 90 % of them have fewer than 10 employees, but issue more than 50 % of the volumes. This insertion by the Senate is therefore to be welcomed. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the balance of Articles 1 to 3 of the original text, which set out essential objectives in terms of ecological transition by prohibiting any exploration and exploitation, whatever the hydrocarbons and the processes used for their research or exploitation, and a ban accompanied by the territories affected in order to ensure their conversion to other types of energy. I hope that we will remain in this version while, of course, inserting improvements that do not distort the spirit of this version but, on the contrary, reinforce it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] As explained during the examination in committee, the MODEM and related group did not differ from its position at first reading. We therefore support this text, which we consider important since it is avant-garde, and we call for its rapid adoption by our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u33	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u34	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, yes, this bill is symbolic. There is nothing pejorative to say, even if there is sometimes a lack of concrete action behind this adjective. But the fight against global warming may also require symbols. Let us begin with the positive points, Minister of State. There is one aspect that we, in the IDU Group, are delighted to take action and to be independent, and which puts everyone in agreement: it is the refusal to exploit and explore shale gas. Since the 2011 law, successive majorities have always supported this position. The debate should therefore be finally decided. It is also a point of agreement between the Senate and the Assembly. Even if the definition of non-conventional methods is still open to discussion, I am sure we will arrive at inevitable rules. France must close the door with shale gas. This text reaffirms this, and that is a good thing. For the other hydrocarbons, let's say right away: the IDU group, Action and Independents share the Government's objective of opening the transition to the era of decarbonized energy, in the post-oil era; It's going in the direction of history. More broadly, reducing our greenhouse gas emissions is a vital imperative and requires international coordination. Throughout the Bonn conference on climate change, known as COP23, the alarmist reports followed each other: as it stood, the rise in temperature would not be two degrees, but three degrees, with only one third of the necessary reductions in greenhouse gas emissions having been achieved. Today, however, we are very embarrassed by legislative objectives adopted for the symbol during the previous legislature, and sometimes unrealistic. You know better than anyone, Minister of State, that this is the case with nuclear power. These texts had no other objectives but a display and political communication effect. Please, let's stop legislating like this, we're not doing a good job! The first reading raised a number of doubts, particularly about the related uses: two of our amendments were adopted so that the installations could be returned or reconverted for use in other uses of the subsoil – geothermal, for example – and, five years before the end of the concession, the operator will submit a dossier with the potential for conversion. These amendments are quite constructive: we must not refrain from producing after 2040, but we must ensure that production is more in line with the needs of the moment. For the rest, wanting to be an example is good. But I urge our colleagues in the majority to remain humble: this text is not a revolution, and I fear that it will take the problem backwards. Let us not forget that the ecological transition is not decreed: it is accompanied. Our consumption is still high and necessarily puts us in a position of dependence on exporting countries. In 2040, in the best case, our country will still consume 20% of fossil fuels... which we will have to import! As I pointed out at first reading, our country produces only 1 per cent of its oil consumption, and we will therefore continue to import, which will cost us dearly and will not improve our trade balance or our environmental balance. Banning the production of hydrocarbons only in the national territory therefore makes sense only if every effort is made at the international level to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels. At this stage of my speech, I stress a contradiction between the President of the Republic: he said that European standards in this field should not be tightened, whereas, like others during the campaign, he said that what we decide on this matter should be defended at European level, and even first implemented at this level before being applied in France. For my part, I would like that to be the case. All the work we are doing here, and you know that, Minister of State, will be useless until alternatives to fossil fuels, economically and environmentally viable, are generalized in all economic sectors. I am convinced that this will be the case and that renewable energy will soon be exploitable at competitive costs compared to conventional energy. But is the text useful in this respect? I don't really believe it. It does not propose any solution to facilitate this transition when there are habits to be changed, equipment to be renewed, industrial practices to be developed and a work of the public authority to be carried out to accompany all these changes. This law will not be enough. The examination in the Senate, as you recalled, Minister of State, was not unnecessary. I regret the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, because this leads us to discuss again a text which, for the reasons I have just mentioned, is not major. Senators have raised legitimate questions, such as non-energy uses, public research, conversion to other economic activities, and the date on which permits will be extended. These questions must be answered clearly and without dogmatism in this new reading. With regard to the various energy provisions, we can all welcome the work of senators: I am thinking of section 4 on natural gas, where the power to legislate by order has been largely replaced by a direct inclusion in the law, which is always a good augury. Even though there are still clearances – including one on the issue of relief – the consultation has taken place and action must therefore be taken for rapid implementation by next winter. I also welcome the amendment to Article 6: the criteria for biofuels must also apply to those imported outside the European Union, in compliance with international trade rules. Our colleague Paul Christophe, Member of the UDI Group, Agir et indépendants, had tabled a similar amendment at first reading, which had been rejected. I am pleased that this problem was finally resolved during the parliamentary shuttle. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State, I would like to take this opportunity to re-emphasize the reform of the mining code, which we have been waiting for too long. This bill must not exempt us from this, because it is essential to deal with non-energy mines and the post-mine issue in order to agree on the principles of environmental law with those of the mining code and to move forward with public participation on the subject. This will have to be used, in passing, to simplify the existing law. Mr Minister of State, you insisted that this text went further than the symbol in your opinion and was part of a much broader policy. Our group is asking only to be convinced of this. It is not because we are proposed to legislate on such a distant horizon that we must take things lightly and say, "We will see well in 2040. Between the enactment of the Act and the final objective to be achieved on that date, at least five legislatures will succeed each other... In other words, water will have sank under bridges and the truth of today may not be that of tomorrow. To include this objective in the legislation should only have been considered with a regular evaluation, which is not included in it, in order to ensure that the results can be achieved. This is all the more true since not all oil wells can be mechanically closed in 2040. More generally, across our energy transition policy, we need to be able to make progress points on the timetable that is emerging in order to adapt to not only delays, but also progress. I repeat: this text is only a small piece of a more global puzzle, which you drew with the presentation of the climate plan. Our group will remain particularly vigilant in the coming months on the means that will or will not actually be made available for this model change in all the five-year finance laws. We want to evaluate on the basis of results and not on the basis of symbols such as this text. After weighing the stakes well and digging things – beyond the announcement effects – our group remains very shared. We fear that the 2040 target will always be underpinned by the same motivations for political communication and will ultimately lead to the same mistakes as the Royal Law. Its modalities must therefore be extremely clear and economically sustainable, otherwise the results will not be available.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u35	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u36	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the rapporteur and the rapporteur for an opinion, a large majority of ideas have been set up in this House around this bill. In the New Left Group, we consider that this is an important text whose scope is too often underestimated. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Government for listening to a number of our proposals. To the truth, since the beginning of this legislature, we have never contributed so much to the drafting of a bill, leading to important changes in the text: I am thinking of the reference to the Paris agreement, to the ratification of the order reforming the mining code, to the limitation to 2040 of the deadline for the grant of a first concession, to the obligation for any applicant for a mining title to demonstrate that he does not use conventional techniques, transparency, biomethane, and I am moving on. There is one point that we will discuss earlier: the definition of other non-conventional techniques. This text will have concrete consequences: it will enable us to emerge from the situation we have experienced since the 2010-2011s with regard to the processing of mining permits. It will also legitimately allow the State to refuse them and reject a number of them. I draw a number of lessons and lessons from our discussions. First of all, and although this is unfortunately not a surprise, there is no national consensus on the ecological transition. If we sometimes seem to agree on the objectives and on the horizon in the very long term, concretely – and this is the Senate's position in fact – we are, of course, in favour of the release of fossil fuels, but we must continue to exploit it, but we must develop oil in the overseas regions, but we must accept all the demands of the oil companies. This position illustrates in fact another, which is also taking place in this House: whenever you wish, Minister of State, to move seriously, I was going to say irreversibly, you will encounter resistance. However, we will always be there to create majorities of ideas with you. It will also be necessary for civil society to mobilize each time. The second lesson we need to learn from our discussions is that we need to review our understanding of the report in time. To bounce back on what Laure de La Raudière said, unlike other laws such as that of the Grenelle de l'Environnement, this text does not only set a horizon; it has a strict normative scope by fixing the end of the concessions to 2040. It does not just set out an objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u37	On nuclear power, we can see what it's like!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u38	We can no longer content ourselves with legislation referring to objectives when 15,000 scientists say: soon it will be too late. We must therefore focus today on concrete instruments as well as concrete short-term decisions: this is one of the lessons to be drawn from past laws. Finally, we have a dynamic vision of this bill and take it as a point of support for other struggles: that of consistency in reducing oil consumption, the end of export support and the rejection of supranational rules contrary to this type of legislation. I am thinking in particular of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, better known as CETA – for Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – to which we will oppose. We must also always bear in mind the systemic link between the issue of climate, biodiversity and resources and the concrete decisions that must be taken today, in order, for example, to refuse in Guyana a project such as that of the Golden Mountain which destroys ecosystems and undermines the living conditions of the first peoples. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the REM group]] Another lesson to be learned from this debate is that of the constitutional blockage. Despite the Charter of the Environment, the terms of the Constitution are today a hindrance when the legislator takes a number of decisions to meet objectives of general interest such as climate protection or the protection of agricultural land. On the latter, we have had to face censorship by the Constitutional Council. We must therefore, in the next constitutional review, include in our basic text not only the principle of non-regression of environmental law, but also the principle of legitimacy of the limits to the protection of private property when the interests of the planet are at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u39	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u40	Mr Minister of State, today I could have resumed my first reading speech: this text remains in the middle of the ford. I hope that this session will finally take us through this stage, but I am not very optimistic. Today, I will rather remind you of the reality of the land where people have lived who have been poisoned for generations, remind you of what is being done to our territory by the extremist policy whose law acts a stay in my sense far too long. The master word of this law, the one that gives it its true meaning, is as follows: derogation. This word carries in it the weight of your renunciations and says, on its own, the power of the lobbies of the mining industry that have obtained the right to continue to pollute. It speaks of the power of economic interests in the face of the right to live in a healthy environment. I was, just a few days ago, on the side of Lacq's petrochemical basin – Total's concession – where we die younger after living in poor health. Studies show an average overmortality of 14% around the basin between 1968 and 1998, with peaks of cancer overmortality of approximately 39% at the end of the period. Today, people are, some nights, awakened by odours and headaches: they evoke vomiting, itching and skin damage. If I have heard Mr Philippe Bolo welcome the fact that the derogation granted to the Lacq basin is preserved, I hope that it will be abolished today. Clause 1.13 of this bill currently permits this exception for the Lacq deposit and condemns the residents close to the basin to die with little fire in the midst of toxic fumes. For these people, 2040 is not even a horizon. Do you think, Minister of State, that this father of the family, whose nine-year-old daughter is already ill, will wait for this deadline to obtain answers to the questions he has addressed to your ministry? The sacrosanct freedom to undertake will quickly transform this area into an open-air laboratory of the deadly pathologies of the petrochemical industry. You mentioned in your speech the necessary conversion of this site. On the other hand, I too, Mr Minister of State, would like to speak to you about Guyana. You quickly validated last September the renewal of the exploration permit for "Guyana maritime", which will allow Total – again it – to pollute the waters off this department for years. The extension of this permit alone demonstrates the emptiness of this bill, which does not say anything about the research and exploration permits that will continue to be studied by the magic of the indefatigable right-of-way. You explained to us, Minister of State, that if you do not attack it was because of the potential for litigation. Once again, it is the unlimited business and business principle that hinders the ecological transition. I would also like to use this rostrum to refer to another consequence of this extremist policy, namely the Gold Mountain project, a gigantic gold mine that directly threatens two biological reserves in Guyana and is now about to succeed. With 10,000 tonnes per year of chemicals spilled and about 60000 tonnes per day of cyanide waste produced every day, doubt is no longer allowed: this project promises to be a major environmental disaster. Beyond the concrete and quantified destruction of the environment, this project is an economic nonsense: it does not meet any demand. Yet Emmanuel Macron, who defends the body with arms the encounter between supply and demand, hastened to soften this Golden Mountain: doubtless Jupiter wants a Mount Olympus to its measure? Once again, the words of the local people are swept away. However, projects to help Guyana and create employment do not fail: to develop agroforestry and training, scientific research or public services, for example. The young Guyanese demand another future! The mining projects under way are therefore a clear demonstration that industrialists are not very sensitive to the economic development of the territory where they are located. Mining companies have a particular attraction for the territories ravaged by unemployment and centuries of land abuse, where the population will not be able to protest against the destruction of its environment. In referring to these realities, two questions arise: who will pay when the cyanide sludge spills into villages and biological reserves in Guyana? Who will compensate the victims of poisoning in the Lacq Basin? There is much to bet that, when the addition is presented, the mining companies will have volatilized and the Russian-Canadian consortia dissolved in nature: will remain only an army of lawyers to defend their clients and brandish the sacrosanct right to undertake! Privatization of profits and mutualization of risks and costs, this is the chorus that the extractive industry sings to us. This chorus, Minister of State, you can no longer, in conscience, accompany him, even in mid-voice, until 2040 and beyond. But, let us rest assured, all these "negative externalities", as you call them, will be forgotten very soon. This is the mission assigned to the international climate summit held in Paris on December 12. A magnificently orchestrated presidential communication, tearful speeches and announcement effects will quickly have evacuated the dramatic situations that I have just described to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u41	It's all in nuances!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u42	Minister Hulot, are you going to be the guarantor of this illusion of a president Macron "greenwashé", the accomplice of this permanent com' operation when you know the realities of the ecological emergency on the ground? Are you going to sacrifice one more generation by your wanderings? We no longer have time to make the accounting balances of mining companies: fossil fuels must remain underground! We can no longer afford words. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For our part, in conscience, we will refrain from voting on this bill, which, as it stands, establishes the derogation as a rule. However, minister, if the speech you made meets the reality, and if you allow the amendments that we have tabled to be adopted, then perhaps we can reconsider our position.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u43	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u44	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, the majorities of the National Assembly and the Senate were therefore unable last week to find common ground to establish a compromise text on this bill. The right-wing majority of the Senate, as we might have feared, made the choice to have the interests of the holders of mining rights take precedence over the general interest. It has introduced flexibilities that go against the very object of the text, which is to no longer grant new exploration permits and not extend existing concessions beyond 2040. However, the Senate Committee on Economic Affairs had made a fair observation. The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will not be achieved by banning residual domestic production of hydrocarbons by 2040, but by acting immediately on consumption. We share that view. Acting on the final consumption of carbon energy must be our priority. This is not the case today: we are far from the EUR 15 billion a year that would be needed to carry out an ambitious programme for the renovation of housing, the development of public transport and an increase in the share of final energy consumption from decarbonised electricity. The conversion of the economy, made necessary by the objective you are aiming for, is, however, not beyond our reach. The hundreds of billions of dollars of annual global investments in fossil fuels could legitimately be redirected to renewable energies. We could also mobilize the mass of capital that sleeps in tax havens: 300 billion euros for French nationals alone! Finally, there is a real strength to engage, at European and international level, with private investors in financial markets, so that they can invest massively in the ecological transition. On the contrary, today we are witnessing ever greater pressure to continue on the path of an economy subject to the financial logics and diktat of the major groups. This is illustrated by CETA, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Europe and Canada, which deprives states of their free will in environmental policies, since any constraints on business freedom, even those justified by environmental protection or public health, may be considered illegal by an arbitration tribunal. The same liberal logic led the World Trade Organisation to lift customs barriers on Argentine biodiesel in September. As a result, for October 2017 alone, the volume of Argentine biodiesel landed in Europe was 240000 tonnes, which corresponds to 10% of the French market or the equivalent of the annual production of a plant in France. This only decision weakens thousands of jobs in France, as well as the agricultural sector of rapeseed. The Senate has adopted a transitional mechanism, which we support, in order to protect jobs in the French sectors, but we see here how the liberal dynamic constantly impacts the interests of our country, paralyses public action and prevents any response to social and environmental issues. To the methodical organization of the impotence of the state, desired by the liberals, you are trying, Minister of State, to bring a denial. With this bill, you are trying to send a strong signal, that of a France that takes its responsibilities against climate disruption, even facing powerful economic interests. This voluntarism honours you, but by putting your actions within the framework of the current Liberal government, you condemn yourself to structural limits and to a troubled and uncertain communication. Within the text before us, the Government has come back to the progress, acquired at first reading, on the prohibition of non-conventional technologies. The new definition adopted in committee, denounced by environmental protection associations, lacks rigour. It serves the interests of the majors objectively. As we said at first reading, your text will ultimately be less efficient, as will the accompanying measures for the energy transition. Environmental transition contracts cannot be limited to the economic and social support of the territories and employees of coal-fired power plants promised to be closed by the Government by 2022 or those affected by the cessation of oil exploitation. They must also concern the future of the territories and employees of the automotive sites, for example, which now produce diesel engines and will have to produce electric motors tomorrow, which require five to seven times less labour. Energy transition is a cross-cutting issue, the issues of which go far beyond ecological transition contracts. My colleague Gabriel Serville has just demonstrated it not only brutally, but also painfully, on the scale of a humiliated territory. The challenge today is to challenge particularly expensive patterns of production and consumption of natural resources, while contrary winds are blowing. These opposite winds are the signals sent by the market, namely the relatively low cost of certain raw materials, such as hydrocarbons, the low cost of industrial labour in emerging countries, which obviously do not push economic actors to make the necessary changes. The State must therefore play its full role as a strategist, regulator, investor. We must invest heavily in training and research, the conversion of production tools, the transformation of consumption patterns, by acting on the levers of transport, housing, or the development, in the broad sense, of the territories. Our country is still far from embodying this ambition. We still have to convince ourselves of the need for major political reorientations this time. As my colleague André Chassaigne pointed out in a forum published in L'Humanité last week, "the substantive debate on our climate action can no longer be content with generalist warnings or postures". We cannot content ourselves with the pursuit of green-tinted capitalism and must work towards the collective and responsible construction of a world that is once again habitable. With this conviction, and given the fragility of a text whose ambition we share, we will abstain, Minister of State. It is an forbearance, an abstention from appeal, aimed at extracting you from the liberal framework in which you started your action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u45	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u46	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, with this text putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, France will send a clear signal in favour of the post-carbon society. Since the adoption of the text at first reading by the House, new evidence has prompted us to accelerate the fight against climate change. Impossible to remain deaf to the solemn alert of 15,000 scientists; It will soon be too late to deviate from our path to failure. These scientists invite us to drastically reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. That is precisely the purpose of this bill. Examination of the text in the Senate allowed for an interesting work of precision, including some advances, such as the accompanying territories in the transition – the new ecological transition contracts were introduced in the text – or the future assessment of greenhouse gas emissions from imported hydrocarbons, which is necessary in order to tax the most polluting of them, or even prohibit them. However, apart from these elements introduced by the progressive groups of the Senate, the version out of the upper chamber transmitted a completely blurred signal as there were many exceptions. The list of derogations was impressive. Whether it is non-energy hydrocarbons, research, related deposits, overseas, the date of application of the law or the durations of validation of permits, on all these subjects, the Senate has shown a willingness to completely distort the meaning of the bill and detriculate it. The Senate has chosen the status quo. It is not surprising, therefore, that it is even reassuring that the Joint Joint Committee has not been successful. The work in the Committee of Deputies of the Republic under way, at the time of the new reading in the Assembly, therefore consisted of returning to an ambitious text, in line with the text presented by the Minister of State. It is from this ambitious text that we are debating today, and we will not give in to these ambitions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Here is our will: to do everything possible to meet the climate challenge; greatly reduce the demand for fossil fuels and, at the same time, organize the end of their production; to reject the immobilization and myth of de-industrialisation in order, on the contrary, to invest right here in a circular economy and in cleaner technologies; support all actors and territories in this ecological transition with jobs; shift financial investment towards this new economy; Finally, to regain hope for a viable future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u48	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u49	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, freedom, free enterprise, boldness of freedom, free energy: these were the fetish words of candidate Macron. And now, a few months after his election, President Macron proposes to put an end to the search for and exploitation of hydrocarbons by 2040, even though the current operating authorizations for the latter end in 2047. We are far from the liberal economic principles advocated by the President! This text puts an end to the production of any hydrocarbon deposits in France. It is therefore no longer the technology and its consequences for the environment that are involved, but simply the exploitation of fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u50	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u51	This bill simply repeals the 2011 Jacob Act, which, however, formed a consensus on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u52	Oh, no, she didn't have a consensus!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u53	The French will have understood that it is under your leadership, not to say your pressure, Minister of State, that the Government has given in. Of course, it was necessary to find pretexts – but at what cost? I would remind the House that France, despite an annual production of 815000 tonnes, is forced to import oil massively, with national production accounting for only 1% of our consumption. As has been pointed out, the remaining 99 per cent come from states that do not take the same precautions as we do. As long as France consumes fossil fuels, it will be necessary to produce them. The Government would have been better inspired to work first on consumption, rather than on 1 per cent of our production. Tell others that this bill is of environmental interest! But there's a second reason to push him away. Oil production generates annual revenues of more than €330 million and more than €55 million in tax benefits. In addition, jobs depend on this sector. It is crucial to preserve the areas of employment and our know-how, especially in rural and peripheral areas. They will already suffer a lot from the government's policy: increasing diesel taxes, closing public services, reducing communities by 13 billion euros – and I'm moving on. I now turn to the direct consequences of your text on science. By brutally putting an end to the possibility of carrying out research in seismic and geological matters, you deprive France of the knowledge of its subsoil. A company from my department, La Marne, located in Montmirail, committed some 4 million euros in 2017 to carry out work on the basement; This work is then, as you know, the Minister of State, given free of charge to the State, who collects it and ensures its conservation. Tomorrow, it won't be possible. Who will finance these studies? Unless you announce a substantial increase in the financial resources allocated to the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research, the BRGM – which I doubt – this data will be lost! Let me also mention the fate of the generation of young geologists and students. Mr. Minister of State, you are going to force a whole generation of geologists to expatriate. What opportunities do you offer to geology students, except to go and exercise their skills elsewhere? So that's the great future you have for French youth? She'll be grateful for that! Ladies and gentlemen, given the many weaknesses in this bill, you still have the opportunity to decide on your vote. The text should be enriched by the amendments voted by the Senate. I would like to remind you of the broad lines of this report, through four proposals. The first is to continue the exploitation of hydrocarbons when they are intended for non-energy uses, in particular for scientific knowledge. The second is to pursue hydrocarbon research activities, under the control of the public, solely for the purpose of knowledge of French subsoils. The third is to lighten the framework of the right of continuation for the only concessions granted from the date of the enactment of the law, not for the current concessions. Similarly, an industrialist who obtains an extension of a concession beyond 2040 must be able not only to cover the costs incurred, but also to record any profits. Fourth and final proposal, the date of 2040 referred to in the bill must apply to applications filed by July 6, 2017, and not to applications under investigation, sometimes pending for several years before the administration. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the main reasons why the group The Republicans will very much oppose the bill as it is before us. This text seems to us to be both anti-economic and ideological. Its range is a simple symbol.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u54	Then live the strength of the symbol!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u55	The Government hopes that our country will be almost the only one to stop producing fossil fuels. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: do not count on us to participate in the decommissioning of France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u56	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u57	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, "symbolic" is the word that has been used for several weeks in our debates, and that is what those who want to minimize the scope of this bill call for. What, in essence, is this text the symbol? It is the symbol of a France that fulfils its commitments; the symbol of a France which, with the Environmental Charter, has incorporated the precautionary principle in its Constitution; the symbol of a France at the initiative of the Grenelle de l'Environnement; the symbol of a France that succeeded in COP 21 and carried the Paris agreement; the symbol of a France that passed the law on the energy transition for green growth; the symbol of a France that fulfils its commitments in the fight against climate change. If we are meeting this morning, it is because the Joint Joint Committee failed, since the Senate has reviewed the text in a very contradictory way in relation to the objectives set: he, who usually takes advantage of his spirit of wisdom, has not shown it here. In this case, it was rather upper room and low view. So we are here to restore the text to its objectives, just a few days away from COP23, chaired in Bonn by Fiji. Let me quote a Fijian proverb: "Only those who see the invisible succeed in the impossible. The least we can say about climate change is that the invisible is now visible: everyone can see from sight the effects of climate change. It is therefore regrettable that the Senate has remained blind to these changes, and deaf to the call of the 15,000 scientists who have echoed them. "We are putting our future at risk," they write, not aware of certain issues, starting with "our intense material consumption and rapid and continuous global population growth," or "the failure to stop pollution and protect natural habitats." They add: "Humanity fails to take the urgent measures necessary to preserve our biosphere in danger. We cannot be clearer. Yet, even though the Senate, at first reading, was able to make improvements of a essentially technical nature, its majority, as a whole, supported a fossilized vision, if you pass the phrase. We must therefore put things in order and re-establish the earlier version of an ambitious, concrete and strong text. I would like to stress the spirit of co-construction which led to its drafting and to recall the work of my colleague Delphine Batho, who has made a major contribution to clarifying several points, such as the prohibition of the exploration and exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbons in the event that a technique other than hydraulic fracturing could be used, or the consumer's information on the type of gas supplied to him and which he uses, in order to encourage, as we all wish, the development of methanisation and the use of biogas. Other measures which have enriched the text: the addition of coal to the list of substances whose exploration and exploitation must be prohibited; framework of the right of continuation; visibility, for operators, on the perimeter of the regulated storage stock; the maintenance of the power supply of the largest number of individual customers in the event of discharge; the establishment of a mechanism to protect the consumer against unjustified increases in bills. Thanks to these contributions from all the groups, the provisions of the text, Mr. Minister of State, are in line with the initial objectives you set for them. However, I would like to stress the ecological and solidarity transition contracts for the territories. The change in which they are engaged requires strong support: we must help them and define precisely the nature of these contracts. You have indicated, Minister of State, that this text is the main focus of your national climate plan. All right! But this text calls for further steps, whether it be the development of renewable energies or a PPE – multi-annual energy programming – worthy of our expectations. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] "You have to imagine happy Sisyphe," said Albert Camus. I like to imagine you happy, Minister of State, as we will be when we vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u59	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u60	Mr President, Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting again in this Chamber to discuss the major text, in terms of energy and ecological transition, of this beginning of quinquennium and even of the whole quinquennium. This text, which puts an end to the research and exploitation of conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons while including several provisions on energy, must enable France to retain its role as a leader in this field. Our country has always been at the forefront of the fight against climate change. The measures set out in this bill must enable us to create a real awareness of the harmful consequences of oil exploitation on our territory. This must be given special attention because, as we have seen, the Senate does not share this vision. We therefore have to convince our fellow Members and our fellow citizens equally. I would like to reassure you, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen. Our commitments to ecological transition have already had repercussions in Europe, through COP23. I myself had the opportunity to judge the first effects of this during my presentation on clean mobility in Switzerland, during the conference of the EPTA network – European Parliamentary Technology Assessment – which brings together the parliamentary offices of European scientific and technological choices. I also had the honour of accompanying the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, on his trip to Africa. We visited my country of origin, Burkina Faso, but also Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana. In Burkina, we had the opportunity to open a solar power plant, the largest in West Africa, with 129,600 photovoltaic panels installed on fifty-five hectares. This project, above all African, is also French, thanks to the assistance of the French Development Agency, and European. Burkina Faso and Africa, ambitious in this area, will be present in Paris on 12 December for the climate summit. Including France in the list of ambitious countries is therefore an additional motivation for us to promote the energy transition. I come back to the bill being re-readed. This text, which we had adopted by 388 votes to 92, should have been adopted by a single vote of the 577 Members. Unfortunately, that was not the case. In the Senate, important developments have been made: I am thinking in particular of the exemptions granted in respect of the prohibition on exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, on the overseas side, on public research and on non-energy uses. The Joint Joint Committee will not have made it possible to reach a common position, although we have tried to find compromises. It was impossible, as these would have required a downward review of our ambitions. We have therefore avoided this solution of ease which would have been an agreement at all costs, found between two collective budgets. We have this ambition for ourselves, but also for our fellow citizens. To make derogations from this text would deprive it of all value and scope beyond our borders. The Committee on Economic Affairs, of which I am a member, has received a delegation on the substance of several articles, starting with Article 4, which deals in particular with the underground storage of natural gas. In this area, the reform is useful and necessary to anticipate the winter of 2018-2019. Article 5aa, introduced by our draftsman for first reading, aims to secure the legal framework for the adoption of access to networks contracts and their transmission to the Energy Regulatory Commission. Article 5a is very important since it facilitates the connection of renewable energies at sea. Our country is very late in this area, while our neighbours, particularly the United Kingdom, already have many offshore wind turbines. The provision will facilitate their development. Article 5b(a) legally secures the new electricity distribution scheme and the internal networks of buildings. You have heard me complain about the Senate's action on this text, but let me tell you that our honourable senators have largely preserved the spirit that we wanted to give to these articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u61	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u62	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] For example, the Senate's The Republic Group has adopted two amendments to Articles 5 bis and 5 ter A, with the aim of strengthening, at the legal level, the arrangements that we have put in place.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u63	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u64	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, our discussions led to the vote on an ambitious and balanced text. Since then, he has been under the caudine forks of the Senate. It is fair, however, to recognize that senators have made some improvements: I am thinking in particular of energy transition contracts or the consideration of air quality issues in public tenders. But, as has been said, the Senate has introduced too many derogations – on non-energy deposits, overseas and public research – which, in fact, deprive the text of its scope. The work in committee has therefore been to restore to it all its substance and meaning. I do not go back to the main measures, which have been very well outlined by previous speakers. However, I want to dwell on the debate that has animated us about whether or not the text is symbolic. To those who consider it unnecessary and say that no one will follow us, I want to make the following clarifications. Since the first reading vote, the financial world has begun the shift from disinvestment in fossil fuels: the Norwegian sovereign fund, the largest in the world, has announced the withdrawal of its holdings in oil and gas companies. Since the first reading vote, the industrial world has also begun the shift in diversification of its investments: Total has announced the opening of a strategy-climate department and its willingness to develop up to 20% renewable energy. More broadly, since the climate plan was announced in July 2017, some states have taken stock of the urgency and accelerated the transformation of their energy model. India and the United Kingdom, which are not quite small countries, have thus announced their intention to put an end to the production of thermal vehicles, following the announcement made by France on this subject, and according to the same timetable as it did. I say this to my colleagues in the LR group: your conservatism on this text is wrong; It ignores the reality of the economic signals previously exposed. And what is currently a lack of vision may well prove to be a political mistake. I say to my fellow Members that, when a text pushes a positive movement, when it embodies France's exemplary energy transition, your abstention throws your own political action in an impasse: in doing so, you stand alongside those whom you constantly denounce.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u65	So vote on our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u66	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] This text, the La République group on the move, will vote for it because it is ambitious and balanced. I also hope that the 12 December One Planet Summit will be an opportunity for the Government and the majority to move forward together on structural measures. I am thinking in particular of the systematic analysis of the budget with regard to the commitments of the Paris Agreement or the integration of climate risk into all financial reporting documents. Beyond these initiatives, we will continue our resolute action on the four pillars of the energy transition: support for industrial sectors, integration of renewable energy into the mix, energy performance of buildings and the transformation of the mobility sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u67	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u68	Mr President, the Minister of State, the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, global warming and its dramatic consequences are no longer to be proved. The many natural disasters around the world, which we witness every day, and the multiple effects of climate change, including in our territory, show how vulnerable we are, not only in the face of the power of change but above all in our own current inability to respond. France has made a strong commitment on the international stage in order to finally make a global commitment to climate change. Two weeks ago, in Bonn, while I was participating in COP23, I could only note all the efforts made by our country to negotiate and engage its partners. France accounts for only one share of global greenhouse gas emissions. Our commitment is only valid if it is collective. The energy and environmental transition cannot work without the commitment of all countries. But the impulses we give are strong signals that we send to our partners and have a driving effect. International climate goals exist. They are clear: it is imperative that we contain the rise in global temperature well below 2 degrees. The UN – the United Nations – explains, however, that the commitments made by the countries that signed the Paris Agreement, if they are fulfilled, will only make it possible to achieve about a third of the road; How to achieve the other two-thirds remains to be found. Given the current commitments, we will be far below our targets. It is therefore necessary to move from speech to action, from objectives to practical implementation. Above all, we must make the implementation of the Paris Agreement irreversible. This is where the pack hurts, and where, unsurprisingly, oppositions are most pressing. This bill is a first brick in the implementation of the climate plan that you have introduced, Minister of State. I am proud that France is on the verge of becoming the first country to ban the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons on its territory. To limit global warming, we all know, we must abandon the exploitation of 80% of the hydrocarbon resources, so leave them in the basement. We can't wait any longer; we can no longer push back; we can no longer grant exceptions and derogations. Some, especially in this assembly, where they must feel a little alone, will have to accept short-term considerations and question the future they want to give their children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u70	It is a heavy responsibility that we bear. We are accused of not defending the jobs of our country, of our industry. That's not true! We want to be fully engaged in the new industrial revolution under way, because that is what it is all about: that is where the jobs of tomorrow are. The transformations are long to implement. It is necessary to anticipate them, to accompany them, in order to prepare the conversion of men and territories. We must learn from our past mistakes not to repeat them. We have not been able to anticipate the closure of our many coal mining sites, leaving many French territories still in difficulty today. The more we wait, the more difficult the changes are. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Minister of State, I would like to thank you for your commitment and to welcome your vision for the future of France: a France that looks ahead and not behind it, which makes a constraint an opportunity. By taking global leadership on climate, France does not serve its economic interests; She's taking a step ahead.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u71	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u72	If this text were only symbolic, or even driven only by a low-communication enterprise, it would probably not have aroused such reactions. Everyone has understood it, it is not the alpha and omega of the great evening of the climate transition, but an additional stone to a building that we are going to build together, which is not finished and which, I understand, Mr Prud'homme, does not necessarily fit into an ideal world economic and merchant context. However, we cannot wait for all planets to be aligned to begin moving forward. I say it very sincerely because I am saddened.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u73	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u74	We share many points of view, but we really need to move forward. This bill has flaws. For some, it goes too fast; for others, too slowly. However, let us not hinder this dynamic. Time does not end there: you will be able to keep your demands, continue your fights – I myself will. You will be able to incorporate other elements to create this more coherent framework that is not yet in force. I hear all of this, but we need to move forward together. It has been noted that we do not know where we will be in 2040, in five mandates. Some say that the objectives set are too far away; Others, they're too brutal. My action plan – it is not my property – is made up of objectives not only in the long term, but also in the medium and short term. It is part of a set of elements that ensure predictability and milestones. This is part of a whole, which is based on four pillars, in particular, the decline in consumption. I cannot agree with the argument that it will lead to an increase in imports; If that is the case, we will have largely failed. There is indeed a milestone with a 30% reduction in our consumption and a longer-term target of 50% reduction. If we fail on one of the pillars, we will fail on the whole device. Mrs Beauvais, I hear some of your arguments, but your criticism of the number of jobs and the wealth generated by this industry seems to me to be unfounded. Let me first tell you that the new energy model, if it develops in a transformation accompanied, predictable, socially acceptable, will generate not only much more jobs than those that will be lost, but also wealth, because it will be as much money as we will not spend to supply us with energy. I would also like to quote an amount that was confirmed to me yesterday on a trip to the World Health Organization in Geneva: the negative externalities of the use of fossil fuels on the environment and health, not to mention human externalities – forgive me for putting them aside – amount to thousands of billions of dollars for the international community. If we can spend that money upstream, to meet the basic needs of the most vulnerable people, including in our territory, I think we will all win. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I take note of the legitimate claim to re-discuss the mining code within a short period of time, in order to address the issues that have not been addressed in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u75	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u76	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u77	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u78	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 36 and 56. I call Mrs Célia de Lavergne to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u79	The purpose of this amendment is to remedy the current asymmetry between project promoters, depending on whether they can connect to the transmission or distribution networks. The tariff reduction, which allows biogas producers to receive up to 40% of their connection costs, concerns only the case of the connection to the distribution networks. It is proposed that this measure be extended to include transport networks. I would remind you that this support is currently reserved for producers of biogas connected to natural gas distribution networks serving more than 100,000 consumers, pursuant to the provisions of Law No 2017-227 of 24 February 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u80	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u81	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u82	What is the Government's opinion on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u83	You will not have escaped that biomethane production facilities connected to certain distribution networks already benefit from a refaction on the costs of connection – we have contributed to it. This amendment goes in the same direction, since it allows the device to be extended to installations connected to the transport networks. It will thus help to promote the development of renewable energy well distributed in our territory, particularly in rural areas, and contribute to the objective I mentioned earlier: to reach 32% renewable energy by 2030. The Government was therefore in favour of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u84	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u85	This amendment proposes a solution to avoid confusion between closed networks and internal distribution networks. It aims to ensure that internal networks can be installed in main office buildings. I think that is in line with the intention expressed by our draftsman in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u86	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u87	Thank you, Mrs Batho, for this formulation, which will enable us to fulfil the objectives we have set ourselves with regard to clarifying the respective regimes of closed networks and inland networks of buildings. I am therefore in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u89	Your amendment, Mrs Batho, effectively solves the problem of the link between internal networks and closed networks, in accordance with European law. We are therefore also in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u90	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u91	We will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u92	The draftswoman has the floor to support Amendment No 34, which has been taken up by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u93	The purpose of this amendment is to refer the fixing of certain rules for the application of Article 5b(A) to a decree. The Energy Code contains a similar measure for closed networks. We therefore felt it necessary to provide this clarification for the internal networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u95	A decree might be necessary to clarify the legislative provisions. However, we believe that it could be taken without the need to mention it in this article, which would lead to an increase in the text. At this stage, the Government is relying on the wisdom of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u96	Two speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u97	First of all, Minister of State, I want to reiterate to you – no doubt you have already read it in the press – my respect for the way in which you got involved in this text at first reading. I have been sitting in this chamber for 15 years, and you are the Prime Minister who comes to me to tell me in my ear that he was wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u98	[[Smile]] This should not happen too often!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u99	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Especially for the Bearn! I bow to your humility and your sense of responsibility. Having said that, this legislation cannot win my support. I do not agree with you; I do not believe that the economy must be Malthusian and that the prohibition of gas and oil is part of the history of our country. I remind our assembly that we will need oil after 2040: to make roads, it will take something other than fine words, it will take oil; to make tires, it will take oil; for many uses, oil will be required; and the electric car will not meet all needs. I also recall that our country – I think that Jean-Paul Mattei, Member of Parliament for the constituency where the Jean-Féger Science and Technology Centre is located, will also be keen to say so – is the world's second largest oil research power. And I'm not talking about seismic research, but about the capacity invested in inventing new products, new procedures, new intervention protocols. This magnificent area of the Béarn and, more broadly, the department of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, formerly made up of agrarian lands, have industrialised and accorded a great place to scientific research. Like many of those who have experienced this evolution, I cannot resolve to abandon our extraction capacity. I will be told that these research capabilities will be maintained, but the president of Total said it well: his business is oil; When there's no more oil, he's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u100	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u101	I was also pointed out that there are few research centres on vines in countries where alcohol is banned! Maybe that's what's gonna happen to the Bearn.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u102	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u103	This text has been enriched by amendments which take into account the specificities of the Lacq basin. Mr Prud'homme, I invite you to come and visit this site with me:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u104	It's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u105	He went there! He didn't wait for your permission!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u106	...you'd learn a lot about it and see how well it's managed, even if I recognize that everything isn't perfect. The Joint Joint Committee failed to agree on a consensus view of the text. For my part, I believe that care should be taken to maintain the balance of Article 1 as drafted by the National Assembly. But we must also remain attentive to the demands of the industrialists concerned; We will indeed have to re-examine these issues in the context of the reform, already mentioned, of the mining code, which will take place next year. The industrialists continue to inform us of the technical difficulties associated with the end of any oil exploitation or exploration in 2040, given the concessions granted by the State. Indeed, I remind you that they have made commitments, related to the law and concessions. It is therefore necessary to analyse these exit processes with pragmatism, taking into account the financial balances of the companies concerned by all the concessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u107	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u108	The purpose of this amendment is to make an exception to the principle laid down in the law impossible by deleting paragraph 13 of section 1. The protection of the populations, including that of the Lacq basin, in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques. For 60 years, gas wells have been operated at Lacq by Total and its subsidiaries; Today, a petrochemical industrial basin succeeds this gas exploitation. In 2002, a study carried out by the Institute of Public Health, Epidemiology and Development – ISPED – of the University of Bordeaux concluded that there was an over-mortality at the end of the period.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u109	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u110	The Health Watch Institute immediately advocated the continuation of this study. It should be noted that the regional health agency, which had contributed to concealing this study for several years, spoke out against its pursuit, which, according to it, risked breaking social peace – I did not know this role of the ARS, which some colleagues visibly relay, in disregard of the truth... In 2015, the Court of Auditors alarmed the public authorities about the judgment of the epidemiological study. As a result of the action of the local associations, the Court was joined by the primary health insurance fund, which unanimously asked – you will excuse me for a little – for a new study. ARS was entrusted with carrying out new studies, although it had itself opposed their continuation in 2002 and 2010. Since then, nothing satisfactory has been done, or so little. Associations, residents and workers are left alone in the face of their concerns, their health problems and those of their children, alone in the face of the cocktail of chemicals in the air, especially tetrachloromethane, whose discharges between 2007 and 2011 were almost seven times higher than the level authorised by European regulations. Finally, information about the ICPEs – the classified installations for the protection of the environment – has disappeared from your ministry's website, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u111	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u112	I'll make it up to you. Lacq is a good illustration of what the mining industry produces, despite the pudic sail over which the departmental services cover it. MP Mattei would call it an exemplary site, but I do not think that is the case. We therefore call for the full information of the population to be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u113	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u114	Mr Prud'homme, during the examination of the text in committee, amendments were adopted to narrow the scope of the derogation, which the Senate had greatly expanded; They have returned to the spirit of the text voted by the National Assembly at first reading, and I consider that a satisfactory balance has been found. As your amendment proposes to delete the whole paragraph, I am against it. The Government has provided reassuring answers to my questions about public health, but perhaps the Minister of State will take advantage of the discussion to take stock of this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u116	The fact that I am against the adoption of your amendment, Mr Prud'homme, will not prevent my ministry from taking on its responsibilities after the studies in progress – I intend to pay attention to them and to rely on them. As it stands, I have noted this number of unique pathologies in the region; I have not been shown to have a cause-and-effect relationship, but this does not mean that it should not be considered. In this area, as in others, I just wait for science to enlighten me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u118	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u119	Minister of State, I agree with what you have just said, but I suggest that you remove the word "singularity." There is no singularity. The two studies mentioned by Mr Prud'homme do not conclude that there is a singularity; They simply note that it is not possible today to establish one truth, in one sense or another. It's not a singularity. As you know, all the partners – industrial and administrative, as well as trade union organisations – are mobilizing so that the whole truth and knowledge can emerge, in full transparency. To want transparency must not place us under a regime of suspicion. But that's what happens: we wanted this transparency, but some people often coming from the north, from Bordeaux – you imagine their knowledge of local realities – bring us truths that the inhabitants of the Lacq basin, of which I am a part, live as insults to the formidable adventure of exploiting this deposit. Trade union organisations, which represent those working in factories, are the first to recognize the efforts made to protect the environment. These efforts are not made so that some people, inspired by the desire to bring down the Lacq basin, can express themselves, including in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u120	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u121	I did not know that the quality of Bearnais was the only one to guarantee knowledge and competence; the members of ISPED, who are probably not Bearnais, will take your remark as it should.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u122	I don't care!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u123	I'll write it down. Mr Minister of State, the studies under way are partial studies on mortality and morbidity, but the epidemiological study which has taken place on the 1998 data needs to be continued, otherwise we will not be able to have a complete picture of the situation. Many studies, including those measuring tetrachloromethane, are not things that float in the air of time. These are published studies, based on facts and requiring urgent action. I ask you to respond to my invitation to go there to take stock and allow the studies and measurements to be carried out. Today, on the Lacq basin, there is only self-control:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u124	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u125	...the industrialist does his measurements and claims that everything is fine and nothing pollutes. Independent bodies need to measure the air content of the Lacq Basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u127	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy, has the floor to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u128	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u130	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u131	The Minister of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 81, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u132	Article 2 bis, adopted by the deputies and senators, provides for the submission to the administrative authority of a report by the operator on the potential for conversion of its facilities or the site of installation for other uses of the subsoil, including geothermal energy, or for other economic activities, in particular the installation of renewable energy. This report must be submitted five years before the end of the validity of the concession. An important step will be the analysis of the findings of this report and the consultation with stakeholders, including local authorities, on conversion choices. In this context, requiring the filing of a proposed conversion of an operating title five years before the expiry of the concession, i.e. exactly at the time of the submission of the report, will not allow for a real debate or the construction of real territorial projects. Therefore, it is proposed that this conversion request be made four years before the mining title expires, i.e. one year after the submission of the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u134	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u135	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u136	This is not a very important point, but I do not understand the link with the Article 2a mechanism. The concessions in which there would be a problem of related substances are not very numerous, to my knowledge, so that I do not understand the link between, on the one hand, the report requested for conversions from the industrial site to other activities such as geothermal and renewable energy, and, on the other hand, the transformation of the concession for related products.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u137	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u138	It's just a calendar problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u139	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 17 and 40. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u140	We have already discussed this subject a great deal. We want to put an end to the right of continuation, which emptys the text of its substance and unfortunately prevents, as you know, compliance with the deadline of 1 January 2040, because of the numerous research permits, particularly in Guyana, where an extension was even granted a few days before the examination of this text at first reading. Mr. Djebbari said earlier that France was in a stalemate; I believe that our present society is in a stalemate when it lets industrial interests guide its strategic choices and the major industrialists poison our health, our soil and our environment. A large group like Total made 156 billion euros in sales in 2015, for a profit of 4.7 billion euros and 0 euros of taxes paid: nothing came back to the national community, to the state. If we do not adopt this amendment, the state will remain tied to industrial interests, which would obviously pose a big problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u142	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor in support of Amendment No 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u143	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u144	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u145	He's unfavorable. Mrs Panot and Mrs Batho defend these identical amendments for different reasons. It is proposed that article 1, paragraph 21, be deleted, allegedly redundant. As a precaution and in order not to give way to divergent or even opposing interpretations, I prefer to maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u147	Mrs Panot, the arguments have not changed since the first reading: I am obliged to take into account the constitutional risks, because we are not outside the legal framework. The Government is therefore opposed to these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u148	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u149	Following the same argument, the La République en marche group will vote against the adoption of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u150	Ah, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u151	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor in support of Amendment No 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u152	This amendment is an attempt to move forward. We are going to debate the right now – I was just pointing out the problem of the constitutional lock on these issues related to the mining code. I suggest that no more than one licence renewal be permitted, whereas the current mining code allows two licences for hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u153	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u154	This amendment echoes lengthy discussions at first reading or in committee. This text represents a balance between respect for acquired rights and a strong ambition to ban by 2040. Your amendment proposes to allow only one extension of exclusive research permits. For information, some of the exclusive licences currently in force have already been extended one or two times. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u156	Mrs Batho, I am obliged to have a legal compass: I am the Council of State, which has recommended the gradual introduction of a ban on hydrocarbon activities in order, once again, to guarantee the constitutionality of the bill. The measure you are proposing, which I understand and which I agree with, to the extent that it would speed up the effect of the text, is clearly infringing the acquired rights of licensees. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u157	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u158	First of all, I was not surprised by the unanimous opposition to my motion to refer to committee. I would like to remind you that my objective this morning was to warn, to create an electroshock so that our assembly would take stock of the gap between the understanding of the situations that we are reaching here from certain realities directly experienced by our compatriots in the territory. For more than half a century now, we have sought to implement a paradigm shift in development. However, as a paradigm shift, we have the unpleasant impression that things have not really evolved: apart from a few small advances that are similar to small ones, nothing has fundamentally changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u159	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u160	I therefore urge our colleagues not to be surprised by the meaning and tone of my remarks, which do not indicate any anger but merely express the daily observations made by my Guyanese compatriots. On the contrary, I call on our colleagues to become aware of this reality on the ground. While indignation is sometimes salutary, it alone will not be enough to solve all the problems we face. Amendment No 30 is intended to restore to our local and regional authorities a right granted to them by legislation. You said you needed a legal compass, Minister of State. You are basing yourself on the Council of State's well-informed observations, which I recalled earlier that it has made it very clear that it is necessary to put the overseas communities outside the scope of this bill. This amendment makes this request again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u162	Dear colleague, thank you for that clarification. One can be indignant without pouring into the anathema. Your amendment is intended to allow Guyana to derogate from the prohibition on research and exploitation of offshore hydrocarbons provided for in the draft law. Such a derogation would largely deprive the text of its scope. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u164	We obviously do not read the observations of the Council of State, Mr Serville. For our part, we believe that the provisions of the bill must apply throughout the national territory. The Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u165	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u166	This is an editorial amendment aimed at re-establishing the automaticity of the production of a specification, the specific requirements of which, in our view, should apply to the holders of exploration and exploitation licences. The consequences of mining activities on the environment and on the safety and health of the population are not virtual but very real and proven, as is the ecological emergency and climate change. The clarification provided by this amendment therefore seems to us useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u168	For my part, I believe that this amendment is falsely worded. It makes the production of a specification automatic, although some flexibility should be maintained on this point. I consider that it is for the administration to determine whether or not it is necessary to impose the production of a specification; If this is not the case, it is unnecessary to impose it, and an empty document cannot be imposed. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u170	I will refrain from copying and pasting: the Government's opinion is also unfavourable, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u171	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u172	Failing to tackle the acquired rights – which would mean amending the Constitution in order not to leave our lives in the hands of transnationals – this amendment insists on the obligation to comply with a specification, which would set environmental standards and not renew research and exploration permits if their holders fail to comply with them. It is a matter of framing the right of continuation, which has been formulated for so long.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u173	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u174	For the reasons that led to the rejection of the previous amendment, my opinion is unfavourable. Imposing an unnecessary specification means imposing the production of an empty document.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u175	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy, has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u176	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u177	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u178	This amendment refers to the law of 13 July 2011 prohibiting hydraulic fracturing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u180	Thank you for this proposal, Mrs Batho. The committee has delivered a favourable opinion on this drafting amendment, which provides a welcome legal clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Batho. The addition of this reference makes it clear that the provisions of the 2011 law prohibiting hydraulic fracturing – which it is worth recalling that it will not be repealed by the adoption of this text, contrary to what was said earlier – will remain in force, in particular with regard to litigation under investigation by a court. The Government is of course in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u183	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u184	The Council of State is your brake, Minister of State. This bill seems to us to be very timid, and it does not provide for any sanction to ensure that its provisions are implemented, however timid they may be. We therefore propose to include sanctions, specifying the penalties to which applicants and holders of research and operating licences are subject in the event of non-compliance with the provisions made with a view to a definitive cessation of these activities on January 1, 2040. A law without constraints seems useless to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u186	The mining code already provides penalties for non-compliance with its rules. Discontinuation of work is a procedure which is highly controlled and supervised by the State. Including in the text the device that you propose without coordination with the law in force could pose important legal problems. Furthermore, the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, dear to the chairman of the commission, included in the civil code the concept of the obligation to compensate for ecological damage. This mechanism can be used in conjunction with the criminal penalties provided for in the mining code if a mining activity is harmful to the environment. This provision is defined by articles 1246 to 1252 of the Civil Code. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u188	In addition to the rapporteur's remarks, I would point out that the penalties provided for in the mining code apply without prejudice to those provided for in other texts, such as the Environmental Code and the Ordinance of 2016 on maritime areas under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the French Republic, in particular in the event of an infringement committed on the continental shelf or in the exclusive economic zone, or under the Labour Code. By way of comparison, in the similar field of installations classified for the protection of the environment, the Environmental Code provides for amounts of the same order of magnitude in the event of an infringement, i.e. administrative penalties of up to EUR 15000 with a daily penalty payment of up to EUR 1500 in the event of non-execution of the notice. All these provisions seem sufficient to me. The Government is therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u189	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u190	The amendments tabled by our colleagues in the La France insoumée group make us hear a little music suggesting that the bill is too timid and that it does not change much. This is a fundamental mistake: in the eyes of all those who have been fighting for years for the energy transition, this bill fundamentally changes things. You know that because you have seen that the lobbies have struggled to try to reduce the ambition of this text. We do not want to adopt a law for form, which, barely voted, would run the risk of being invalidated by the Constitutional Council, but a law that really changes things. We should assume it collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u192	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u193	Mr Orphelin, the La France insoubted group, at first reading, congratulated the majority on presenting a bill prohibiting the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in France. Unfortunately, and we are not alone in saying this – we are echoing many associations and NGOs – this bill has too many loopholes. We are therefore making proposals to make it truly effective and to bring it up to the ecological challenge of our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u194	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u195	The aim of this amendment is precisely to fill a loophole in the text by removing the principles of economic profitability and freedom to undertake enshrined in it. In fact, they greatly weaken its scope. Ninety companies in the hydrocarbon industry are responsible for 50% of all CO emissions in history worldwide. It seems to us important not to let the lobbies in through the window.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u197	The committee considers that it is necessary to return to the text adopted at first reading by the National Assembly, which convokes the notion of economic equilibrium for the determination of derogations. It is a balanced solution between the wording adopted by the Senate and the total absence of derogation that you are advocating. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u199	Unfortunately, Mrs. Panot, perfection is not of this world. Inevitably, a few drops of hydrocarbons will be extracted after 2040. We cannot undermine acquired rights. I repeat, to you and to Mr Prud'homme: if we wait for the big night to agree, we will not be able to do so. Let's build things together! This text is an important step.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u200	We're not asking for the big night, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u201	I know that. I didn't want to pour in the caricature. I would have liked the deadline of 2040 to be a watertight bulkhead; But believe me, the text will not allow much to pass, especially since by then other measures will amplify the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u202	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u203	We do not intend to re-discuss all the points on which our respective positions have not changed. We, too, would have preferred that all concessions should end by 2040 at the latest. We have succeeded in introducing this provision for the issuance of a first concession. But let us be honest to admit that, if paragraph 25 were to end with the word "2040", Article 1 would risk being completely censored by the Constitutional Council – I imagine that our colleagues who are fiercely opposed to this text will not fail to grasp it. If this solution is not ideal in terms of what we would like, it seems legally safer so that our intention to impose a deadline, even in the event of the issuance of a first concession – albeit with a cost-covering codicil – is not censored by the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u204	I have before me two amendments, Nos 80 and 44, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 80 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 84. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u205	This is an editorial amendment with semantic consequences. He proposed that the first sentence of paragraph 25 should be worded more satisfactorily, replacing the words "such a limitation" with the words "such a limitation". I am already expressing an unfavourable opinion on Subamendment No 84 and Amendment No 44, which are purely semantic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u206	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor in support of Subamendment No 84 and Amendment No 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u207	They're being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u208	What is the Government's opinion on these amendments and this sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u209	The Government issued a wisdom opinion on the sub-amendment and a favourable opinion on the drafting amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u210	The committee maintained the Senate's deletion of Rule 1 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u211	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u212	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u213	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u214	The purpose of this amendment is to prevent the application of certain provisions of the mining code introduced by this Act to oil exploration and development permits under investigation at the time of the coming into force of the Act. Sixty-seven applications for exploration permits and sixteen applications for concessions are under consideration; They are, for the vast majority of them, the subject of an implicit decision rejecting them. Indeed, it takes place within 15 months of the submission of the application, often as a result of malfunctions and delays in the investigation procedures of the State services. One of the applications for exploration permits concerns the so-called "UDO" area 150 kilometres off the coast of Guyana, bordering the Guyana Marine permit, which is currently the subject of an exploration campaign. Instructed since 2014, it gave rise to a judgment of the Administrative Court of Cayenne of 30 March 2017 which ordered the State to rule as soon as possible. The State has since appealed the decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u216	This amendment would lead, in particular, to the granting of the forty-two exclusive research permits under investigation, which would more than double the number of permits. This would deprive the law of its full practical scope and meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u217	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u218	This amendment demonstrates that it was time to act to clarify the situation and stem the process. If it were to be adopted, it would not be the few drops I was talking about earlier, but a river that would flow beyond 2040. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u219	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u220	As of September, seventy-three applications for exploration titles were under investigation, as well as fourteen applications for exploitation titles. If all these requests were to be met, the bill would be emptied of its substance. The end of article 2, which we wish to delete, has been added by the Government following the advice of the Council of State, which fears the proliferation of disputes. We believe that this is an admission of political weakness: the State operates under the principle of freedom to undertake, to the detriment of the principles contained in the Charter of the Environment, which nevertheless has constitutional value. Two visions face each other. For our part, we believe that the Environmental Charter prevails over the freedom to undertake and the right to continue to explore and exploit these deposits. We hope that its constitutional value will be recognized as paramount.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u221	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u222	This amendment could be a means of failing to implement court decisions that have been res judicata. It does not seem advisable to use this text to enable the administration to circumvent court decisions. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u223	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u224	Under the principle of separation of powers, these decisions cannot be ignored. The Government's opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u225	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u226	Contrary to what Mr. Serville has explained, the stock of requests under investigation is not related to malfunctions in the state services – they sometimes have good backs – but to the lack of political clarification about what successive governments intended to do with all the oil exploration and exploitation permits: the technique used for years has been to let litigation accumulate, the state waiting to be forced by the courts to issue the securities. While it seems difficult to remove the end of article 2 – we are in the rule of law – it is very important that the Government undertake to defend the position of the State to the end in the ongoing litigation. The aim is to take account of final court decisions and not to anticipate disputes that have not yet been closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u227	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u228	At first reading, the commission introduced a major step forward on this point, which was then secured by the ministry with the addition of this end of sentence. We are progressing and the glass is more than half full.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u229	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u230	In its current wording, section 2 will not permit the granting or extension of an exclusive research permit or concession that would have been the subject of an implied decision to reject, even though the application could have been filed several years ago. This amendment is based on the opinion of the Council of State, which still serves as a compass, Minister the State, and recommends the introduction of substantial transitional measures. It provides that the implicit decisions of rejection that have affected the applications because of the absence of a response from the administration are implicitly repealed by the opening of a new investigation period of four months and that the new regulations do not apply to pending applications, which remain subject to the current provisions of the mining code. This period will allow the administration to issue or refuse pending applications, including those tacitly rejected. In order to resolve legal situations that would still not be dealt with at the end of this four-month period, the amendment also provides for the creation of an implied decision to accept the grant or extension of the title, provided that the application was filed before 1 September 2017 and that it was the subject of a favourable opinion by the General Council for Economy, Industry, Energy and Technology, the CEGEET.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u232	This amendment leads to the replacement of the decision of an inspection body – the EIGC – with the decision of the Minister responsible for Mines for the issuance of exclusive permits or with the decision of the Prime Minister for the issuance of mine concessions. That doesn't sound right. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u233	This amendment is amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u234	The Commission has deleted Article 2bA.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u235	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, on Rule 2b, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u236	This article, introduced in the National Assembly by the adoption at first reading, in open session, of an amendment by Mr. Pancher, allows the conversion or transfer of exploration or exploitation facilities for use in other uses of the subsoil, a practice that is beginning to develop. At first reading, the Senate supplemented this article by adopting two amendments in committee, providing, for the first, for the intervention of an implementing decree to clarify and, if necessary, simplify the modalities of such conversion and, for the second, the possibility of transferring to the State, at its sole discretion, all or part of the rights and obligations related to past mining activity, in order to facilitate and support the implementation of new projects. In further reading, our committee has limited the application of the device to the uses of the subsoil governed by the mining code and re-established the rules on the transfer of rights and obligations adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, while specifying that the granting of a mining title is necessary for the implementation of the new activity on the site. It seems to me that the listening shown by the Government in the discussion of this text should encourage us to continue the dialogue initiated on this occasion with the industry concerned, with a view to reaching decisions that satisfy all parties in the context of the future reform of the mining code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u237	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM and NG groups]] Since there are only 28 amendments under discussion, I propose that we complete the examination of the text this morning. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u238	The Senate has proposed that oil exploration or exploitation facilities may be used for economic activities other than those in the basement. We propose that this suggestion be repeated and that in this case the transfer be accompanied by the rights and obligations provided for in the mining code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u240	Although I understand the spirit of the provision introduced by the Senate and of your amendment, I am against it, Mrs.Batho. The Senate has expanded the possibility of converting or transferring these facilities to economic activities other than those governed by the mining code, which covers a wide range of areas, from the installation of offices to the establishment of a farm. This type of conversion would require important studies, particularly on the issue of clean-up. It does not seem desirable to amend the legislative framework in this area without a thorough prior study.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u242	Limiting the transfer of facilities to subsurface activities, governed by the mining code, ensures, for example, the proper execution of the procedure for the cessation of work for the new use and the repair of damage, hence the control of the risks. In the event of an extension to other uses not governed by the mining code, it will not apply to installations. The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u243	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u244	Article 2b provides that concessions shall indicate, before their expiry, how they intend to convert their site. If I understand your answer, Minister of State, in the event of conversion for other economic activities not covered by the mining code, other procedures exist. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u245	The Minister of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u246	Subparagraphs 4 and 5 provide for the possibility of transferring to the State all or part of the rights and obligations relating to the mining activity. In its current wording, paragraph 3 of Article 2b already allows the State, a public person, to recover, if it so wishes, facilities for subsequent use of the subsoil for other uses. Delete the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 therefore does not in any way prevent the transfer to the State of the installations concerned by a conversion, while ensuring that the operator does indeed carry out the stoppage procedure for all installations not necessary for the new intended uses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u247	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor in support of Amendment No 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u248	I withdraw it because it seems to me satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u249	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u250	I stress that this amendment is not intended to go back. The provisions of the 2011 "Jacob Law" prohibiting hydraulic fracturing have been codified to be engraved in marble and not to be repealed. I would like to recall this because the legal adjustments which this codification has made necessary have led, by way of writing, to the transfer of several articles of this law into the mining code. In committee, we have asked the rapporteur – and I think we have convinced him – that the 2011 law, the conquest of citizens' mobilizations against shale gas, remains a living text, not only with regard to the prohibition of hydraulic fracturing, but also the repeal of permits already issued by the state, especially since, for some of them, litigation is ongoing. With this amendment, we want the Government to confirm that it has the same reading as we do of the legislative act that we are putting forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u251	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u252	We had rich discussions, on this subject, with all the groups, with you as well as with members of the majority, and it was important to keep the reference to the 2011 law in the text. Your amendment is divided into two parts. The first is largely satisfied by article 3, paragraphs 6 to 14. On the other hand, it would seem to me better to discuss the second part, on the definition of non-conventional techniques, when we come to Article 3, paragraph 4, especially since you have tabled Amendment No 46 on it and I have tabled Amendment No 87 myself. The adoption of Amendment No 53 would also prevent the discussion of another of my amendments, No 76, which aims to increase sanctions. At this stage, I therefore call on you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise I will deliver an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u254	Mrs Batho, it seems to me that we have rather converging readings on this subject. The Government wishes to maintain the drafting of the 2011 law on the prohibition of hydraulic fracturing, which allows it to be permanently incorporated into our law and to strengthen its scope. The re-establishment of section 3 of the 2011 Act ensures the continued application of the Act in the context of ongoing litigation. I invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u255	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u256	I agree to withdraw my amendment. We will discuss the definition of non-conventional techniques a little later.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u257	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u258	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u259	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u260	The purpose of this amendment is to prohibit the use of any hydrocarbon extraction method. Article 3 of this text simply refers to the prohibition of non-conventional methods, which is unclear, and provides a definition that does not mean anything and does not lead to any new restrictions. Industrialists, who love nothing but a vague definition, will get into the loophole to better continue to exploit the soil. There is nothing to prevent a new technological advance from developing a method not provided for in this definition. If this text were adopted as it stood, it would be emptied of its substance, already very light. The ecological emergency requires us to ban all methods of extraction, in order to permanently leave the hydrocarbons in the soil, to keep a small chance of limiting global warming to 2 degrees, as you pointed out, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u261	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u262	The terms "any other method", contained in your amendment, suggest that you want to ban oil exploitation, which is not in keeping with the spirit of the law – and the section deals only with non-conventional hydrocarbons. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u264	The adoption of this amendment would alter the progressive nature of the legislation on conventional hydrocarbons. The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u265	I have before me two amendments, Nos 87 and 89, which can be discussed jointly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u266	We had a lot of discussions at first reading and in committee, and I wanted to work to complete the definition that we had achieved: this amendment aims to improve the drafting of the ban on non-conventional techniques, in Article L. 111-11 of the Mining Code. It is a question of ensuring that no method is used to ensure that the pore pressure – that is, the pressure in the porosity of the rock – exceeds the lithostatic pressure – the level that must not be exceeded to maintain the integrity of the geological layer. However, it is sometimes necessary, in order to carry out well maintenance operations or to ensure the safety of the well, to exceed this pressure. That is why the amendment provides for an exception, limited to one-off operational maintenance or safety actions of the well. This definition complements the principle of prohibition of hydraulic fracturing, introduced by the Jacob law, to which we do not touch.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u267	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u268	This amendment incorporates the proposal contained in Amendment No 46, which may fall in the event of the adoption of Amendment No 87. This is the only point on which I will ask you for special attention, because it is an important subject. I'll start by reminding you of the history. In the Government's original draft law, the prohibition of non-conventional hydrocarbons was included. After the technical and legal debates that took place in the National Assembly and then the opinion of the Council of State, the aim was to ban all unconventional techniques, to return to the bill of Jean-Paul Chanteguet adopted in the National Assembly. A discussion then began on the definition of these non-conventional techniques. The Committee on Sustainable Development adopted a very good report at first reading, which is included in Amendment No 87, which refers to the methods leading to a significant and irreversible change in rock permeability. The definition finally adopted at first reading in a public session – "giving rock permeability" – has no meaning. At the end of all our discussions, the rapporteur first presented a draft amendment which had the disadvantage of amending the wording of Article 1 e rde of the Act of 13 July 2011 codified here, before withdrawing it, which I give him note. It is important to keep this article of the Jacob Act as it stands, in particular not to delete references to the Environmental Charter and the Environmental Code, especially since the Constitutional Council's jurisprudence against oil companies is based on this wording. But the definition of non-conventional techniques proposed by the rapporteur does not convince us. I exchanged with the services of the Directorate-General for Energy and Climate to try to understand the technical implications of this writing. It is important that we be informed by the rapporteur or the Minister of State about their position on layer gas, so that it is clear that the State does not intend to allow its operation by unconventional techniques. The amendment, as drafted, with the use of the word "superior", is not to reassure us. If a vacuum technique were to replace overpressure techniques, they would no longer be involved in the drafting of the rapporteur's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u269	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 89?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u270	Amendment No 89 has been the subject of a constructive dialogue, I thank you for reminding you, Mrs Batho. I have the will to define these techniques as precisely as possible so that legal uncertainty is not maintained, which could lead to the use of the terms "modifying permeability" or "providing permeability". That is why I have tried to detail at best the techniques used in the drafting of my amendment No 87. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 89, in favour of Amendment No 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u271	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u272	Mrs Batho, the Government has wanted layer gas to be treated as conventional gas: the current permits will be maintained for exploitation by conventional technology, without, of course, the use of fracturing being allowed. I have noted that you are concerned about alternative techniques. This concern is widely shared within the Government. In fact, I noticed everyone's efforts to get involved. The text will have progressed through a series of successive improvements. The rapporteur's amendment No 87 seems to us to be a good solution to this problem. We invite you, Mrs Batho, to withdraw your amendment in favour of that of the rapporteur, who is able to respond precisely and proportionately to the various issues at stake. I congratulate the rapporteur for having been able to find a text that preserves the necessary balance on a subject of rare technicality and complexity, which is the least we can say. It is indeed very important to be able to respond to the questions and concerns of the citizens, without falling into a form of paranoia, but we are never too careful. Hydraulic fracturing was already prohibited by the 2011 law; She's still here. This amendment also prohibits any other techniques that may appear in the future for the research and exploitation of non-conventional hydrocarbons. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 87 and I ask Mrs Batho to withdraw Amendment No 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u273	Mrs Batho, would you like to withdraw Amendment No 89?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u274	No, because the minister knows my sincerity and I am not completely convinced! This issue has given rise to very long exchanges, very technical and sharp, and I do not believe that the wording proposed by the rapporteur conceals bad intentions or any wolf; I want to take note of it. However, the reference to higher pressure still seems to me to be a problem since it excludes depression techniques that we do not know to date. I have taken note of the Minister of State's reply on the impossibility of exploiting layer gas with any unconventional technique. In any event, at this stage of the debate, I shall keep Amendment No 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u275	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u276	I thank the Minister of State for clarifying the Government's position on layer gas. I also thank Mrs Batho for commending the sincerity of our approach to this scientific definition, which seems to us to remove, as far as possible, ambiguities on unconventional techniques. In view of these elements, we will obviously support the rapporteur's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u277	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u278	France will support Amendment No 89. It has not escaped you, Minister of State, that several NGOs – including ATTAC, Friends of the Earth and 350.org – have expressed to you, in an open letter, their concerns about the proposed definition, which, Mrs. Batho said, would not exclude layer gas. They are particularly concerned about the situation in Lorraine, where the Lachambre exploration well has already used 8000 cubic metres of water. We believe it is important for the law to provide guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u279	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy, has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u280	Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u281	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor in support of Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u282	This is a coordination amendment, in order to take account of the codification of part of the Act of 13 July 2011.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u284	It is unfavorable because I do not think this amendment is useful. It provides for the repeal of titles whose holders would use non-conventional methods prohibited by law. However, Article 3 II already amends Article L. 173-5 of the Mining Code to provide for the withdrawal of mining titles in the event of the use of unconventional techniques. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn, otherwise I will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u286	I understand the purpose of the amendment, but it is not justified because the holders have already submitted a report at the time of their application for title and the local government authorizes the related mining work. Either you withdraw the amendment or the Government will be against it, Mrs Batho.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u287	Mrs Batho, would you like to withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u288	No, because I don't understand the answers given to me. The only thing left is section 3 of the 2011 law, isn't it? It does not refer to the prohibition of hydraulic fracturing. My amendment seeks to establish a link between the two texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u289	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u290	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure coordination between the sanctions provisions of article 3 of the Act of 13 July 2011 and the new sanctions provisions of article L. 512-1 of the Mining Code, as amended by article 3 of the draft Act. Penalties, both of which provide for imprisonment and a fine, cannot be applied in a mutually exclusive manner. It is therefore necessary to ensure the transition from one scheme to another. Accordingly, the amendment provides that section L. 512-1 of the Mining Code shall apply to offences found after the publication of this Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u291	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u292	This is, as follows, an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u293	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u294	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u295	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u296	Article 3 of the Act of 13 July 2011 provided that persons carrying out drilling followed by hydraulic fracturing of the rock shall be punished with a prison term of one year and a fine of 75,000 euros. The amendment to article L. 512-1 of the mining code, at first reading, defined the new penalties applicable to persons who would use unconventional techniques: the prison sentence was increased to two years but the amount of the fine was reduced to 30000 euros. The amendment proposes a new wording of article L. 512-1 of the mining code, retaining the fine of 75,000 euros provided for in the 2011 law and increasing the prison term to two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u298	To the extent that this amendment ensures the consistency of criminal sanctions, the Government is in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u299	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u300	Mr rapporteur, I am pleased to see that, as far as sanctions are concerned, you are coming to the ground which I referred to earlier, since you have just passed a fine of EUR 75000. However, in the event of the use of unauthorized techniques, we propose to raise the financial penalty to a much higher level: 1 million euros per drilling – it is very little in view of the profits generated by multinational oil exploration and exploitation, which my colleague Mathilde Panot recalled earlier. To this fine would be added the immediate withdrawal of the title. You can only agree and therefore vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u301	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u303	[[Smile]] I can only be admired for your consistency on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u304	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u305	There is already a system of penalties for non-compliance with the law, including fines and imprisonment and withdrawal of the title. In addition, the drafting of your amendment poses a legal problem because it is not linked to the existing law. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u306	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u307	I would add to the rapporteur's arguments that the mining code imposes a number of obligations in return for the rights granted. In addition, the explorer or operator is responsible for the damage caused by his activity. Such liability shall not be limited to the scope of the title or to its validity. For all these reasons, the Government is against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u308	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u309	If there is a problem with the wording, I propose that you, Mr rapporteur, amend your amendment by simply adding a zero to the amount of EUR 75,000. We would find a compromise solution here...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u310	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u311	Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u312	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u313	He's in favor. Thank you, Mrs. Batho, for that clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u314	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u315	This amendment reminds us of the need to regulate imports of hydrocarbons on the basis of their carbon intensity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u316	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u317	It does not seem appropriate to provide in law a possibility for the State to regulate. It is for the legislator to lay down the rules. In order to do so, it is necessary to have the data which Article 3c AA requires to be made public. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u318	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u319	I agree, of course, with the objective pursued by this amendment. However, the bill provides for a report that identifies solutions to differentiate between the most dirty hydrocarbons. It is on this basis that the Government will have to choose the best solution and bring it to the national and European levels. At the European level, this topic is part of the Government's presentation, in particular to address the concerns expressed about the perverse effects of CETA – the comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada – in its current version, and you can count on me to address this concern. We therefore consider the measure you are proposing prematurely and I invite you to withdraw your amendment, otherwise the Government will be against it, Mrs. Batho.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u320	Mrs Batho, would you like to withdraw Amendment No 52?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u321	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u322	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u323	This is an amendment of consistency. Since France decides on the cessation of oil research and exploitation activities, it is not intended to support the export of these activities. A recent Oxfam report shows that there is still a need to ensure this coherence, including in the funding of AFD, the Agence française de développement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u324	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u325	I also feel that this measure is premature. When the report provided for in Article 3c(A) is issued, any prohibitions should be considered. The adoption of such a measure without impact assessment could also be counterproductive. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u326	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u327	It is necessary to wait for the planned report to make a diagnosis before imposing specific measures. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u328	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u329	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u330	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, in support of Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u331	This is a fallback amendment, which is in line with my previous interventions, aimed only at calling for compliance with the legislation applicable to overseas countries and territories. Since this will be my last intervention in this debate, I would like to tell you, Mr. Minister of State, how bitter the answers I have heard have left me with a bitter taste. You have often mentioned the requirements of science to support your demonstrations, which in turn prompts me to allow a digression. Science and international observers point out that every year, around 3.4 million people around the world die from poisoning for inhaling gases produced by cooking, heating or lighting from coal, lignite, animal excrement or agricultural residues. Their misfortune is that they have not been able to access electricity, like those living in developed countries. Scientists also show that it will be virtually impossible to achieve 80 per cent renewable energy by 2050, which means that underdeveloped countries will not be able to acquire the necessary energy. Nor will they have access to nuclear energy, which is extremely expensive and whose security is not guaranteed at 100%, so one can fear the worst for them. Perhaps the ideal solution would be to consider, objectively, moving towards a genuine energy mix, the only one that can accompany both the fight against global warming, of which I too am a fervent supporter, and the economic development of countries where extreme poverty prevails. If it were to do so, France, a country of Enlightenment and Human Rights, whose decisions are scrutinized by the whole world, would grow in the eyes of all, especially those countries where poverty is clearly unworthy of human nature and of the twenty-first century. Minister of State, I know that we will have an opportunity to meet later. You have spoken a lot about the green economy for the territory of Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u332	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u333	Be aware that we are ready to take you to the word and to study how to move, in a very short period of time, to this new phase. In advance, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u334	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u336	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u337	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u338	Mr Serville, I seize the ball at the leap – forgive me for the expression – to prolong our discussions and try to add our wills like our intelligences to help bring out together a path of future in Guyana. You mentioned the monstrous health impacts caused by the use of fossil fuels, to which many men, women and children are condemned, for lack of alternatives. In this regard, the climate issue, which is a heavy constraint, can have a positive effect and turn into an opportunity. It obliges us to accelerate the energy transition, in particular to free ourselves from fossil fuels, for the reasons you have indicated, and to accelerate dramatically – everyone will strive for it – the development of renewable energies. The men and women to whom you refer, whose health situation is appalling, do not need a heavy and complex energy, which would put them in a position of dependence. They need a model that can develop very quickly. But renewable energies have this virtue: because they do not require the existence of a large connected network, they can respond territorially, in excessively fine grids, to the basic energy needs of populations. The best service that can be rendered to them is to give them their energy autonomy: wind, sun, biomass or geothermal energy can allow them to free themselves in all senses of the term. This is one of the positive effects of the climate transition: it obliges us to free ourselves and will exempt certain populations from going through the so harmful box of fossil fuels. I have an absolute conviction: if the countries of the North develop these sectors massively, if they accompany and amplify the natural movement of economic decline of the current mode of production, they will allow all these populations to access renewable energies, which will quickly put an end to the situations that you deplore. To return to your amendment No 31, during the debate, Mr President, you have been very constant in your requests, which I have heard correctly and which I take note of. I'm not going to change my mind either. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u339	The president of the committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u340	It is not very polite to speak after the Government; I should have asked for the floor earlier. Mr Serville, when I visited Guyana as Secretary of State for Biodiversity, I had been touched by the real problems this territory faces. As soon as we left Guyana, we had launched, together with the Commissioner-General for Sustainable Development, a mission to study the possibilities for the development of channels not of the past but of the future, oriented in particular towards biodiversity. The report is still recent, as it dates back to May 2017, and I find that the tracks it tracks can be explored. I will pass this on to you, as well as to the other Members of Parliament of Guyana and to all Members of Parliament. It is necessary to try to work on economic development channels and on training. The development of Guyana can exploit these tools of future and wealth, which are considerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u341	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u342	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u343	As we have said, we hope that such a text will also create a driving effect. You mentioned the role of scientists, Mr. Serville. While some of them are reluctant, many are in favour of developing new solutions. As I said earlier in the general discussion, the conference I attended in Switzerland shows that there are alternatives to mobility; Many scientists are working on it. And then, in the Assembly, OPECST, the parliamentary office for the evaluation of scientific and technological choices, is interested in mobility and energy transition. In France, many committees have been set up, which are studying scenarios to begin the transition by 2040. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I therefore invite you to consider that we are going to vote for a symbolic text, which will create a dynamic effect in Europe as well as in Africa.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u344	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u345	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-01-O1080.u346	Next sitting, Monday, 4 December, at 4 p.m.: Final reading of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018; Discussion of the 2017 Finance Amendment Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
