ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2018 (No. 434).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u3	Mr President, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we are completing the review of the Social Security Funding Bill for 2018. The Senate opposed the question in advance of this text; He therefore did not wish to review it again. However, honourable senators considered that useful work had been done. The text before you is therefore the one which your House adopted last Wednesday at second reading. On October 24, when this bill began to be considered, I told you the Government's ambition: that this first five-year social security funding bill be that of responsibility, solidarity and transformation. I can say today that the spirit of responsibility is consecrated, that solidarity is strengthened and that our desire for transformation is reinforced in our debates. Yes, it is the PLFSS of responsibility and balance. We devote 20% of our national wealth to the social security of our citizens. The conditions for its financing are therefore essential political choices for today and for tomorrow. Through this bill, we choose to adapt this funding to the evolution of our social model, by broadening the base of contributions, by strengthening intergenerational solidarity, which is the foundation of social security, by persevering the general burden reliefs in return for the abolition of the CICE – the competitiveness employment tax credit –, by reducing the contribution conditions for business starters and by reducing the contributions of three-quarters of the self-employed. With these choices, this bill will give more purchasing power to 20 million employees – both employees and self-employed – as early as 2018. With these choices, too, the Government is continuing to strengthen our social security system and confirms its willingness to return to balance of accounts. This target, set by the Prime Minister by 2020, commits us to the new generations, to whom we must leave social protection without debt. It bears witness to a method, a political will: that of the spirit of responsibility which is the corollary of the spirit of reform and social progress. Yes, solidarity is strengthened. I want to repeat this to our fellow citizens: this PLFSS will improve the situation of nearly 550,000 elderly people who benefit from the minimum old age. This PLFSS will increase family benefits for the poorest families and single-parent families, who also receive a significant increase in child care assistance. It will make it possible to take better account of the changing needs of older people, especially those most dependent on them. Finally, it will mobilize more resources for our health care system: the authorized rate of evolution of the national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – will be the highest in four years. Behind each of these measures, there is the same will: to strengthen the social model that is at the heart of our republican cohesion, and to first support our most fragile or poorest citizens. We will have the opportunity, in the course of 2018, to work further together on the directions to be given to important parts of this model – I am thinking in particular of family policy. Yes, finally, at the end of these debates, our will for transformation is strengthened. The two assemblies, by adopting article 11 of this bill, supported the Government's desire to change the organization of social protection for self-employed workers. Again, it is a matter of transforming and adapting organizations to the society in which we live: it is the best way to preserve the tools of our national solidarity. This is a major project, which will be conducted with determination, but with the time and resources necessary for its success. The very clear mandate that national representation will give will – let us not doubt – be a powerful support for the women and men involved in this project to adopt the RSI – the social regime of the self-employed – to the general system. Parliament has also given us a very clear mandate to transform our health care system. I was impressed by the commitment of parliamentarians on these benches and in the Senate, regardless of their partisan affiliation, to change the paradigms of health policy and to make clear the primacy of prevention. This, as you know, is the priority of my action: your commitment, your support, will strengthen the national health strategy, which I will lay down in the course of this month, and the National Public Health Plan, which will be drawn up during the spring. We have – I believe – the same vision of the evolutions that must be achieved in the organization of our health system: the relevance of care and prescriptions as a reference, the agility of organizations and experimentation as a method, remuneration as a vector of change, the digital revolution as a factor in accelerating change. It is naturally in this direction that I will continue my ministerial action in the coming months, by implementing the provisions of Article 35 or by working to accelerate the digital transition of the health system. Ladies and gentlemen, after more than fifty hours of debate, I thank all the Members, especially the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mrs Brigitte Bourguignon, and the rapporteur-general, Mr Olivier Véran, for the very intense and very rich exchanges we have had, which have helped to improve the Government's project. As I was unable to do so directly, I would like to associate with those honourable senators who have expressed their agreement with many of the provisions of this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This first bill for the financing of the social security of the legislature reflects the commitments made to the French. These commitments, ladies and gentlemen, are being fulfilled, and the confidence pact with our fellow citizens will emerge strengthened. That is why I urge you, through your vote, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u4	Mr Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we were meeting here five days ago for the vote on this PLFSS in a new reading, after a few days of debate in the sitting, themselves preceded by a few days of debate in committee. All this, a few weeks after the first reading, during which we had a few days of debate in committee, and then a few days of debate in committee. After all these episodes, we meet again to talk about the same text, in the wording that we adopted on November 29, as required by the formalism of the parliamentary procedure, since the Senate, in new reading, opposed the previous question. Noting the disagreements between the two assemblies, which took place during the first reading of this text in the Senate, honourable senators concluded that an agreement was impossible. That is how we end up in a general discussion, which will be immediately followed by a vote on the whole text, without any amendments. So this evening we will not have lively debates between political groups as we have seen in previous readings. I wonder: perhaps, as part of the next reform of the institutions, we should simplify things! The points of disagreement with the Senate are numerous and well known. Despite the work done by the senators at first reading, and the Joint Joint Committee, this disagreement could not be resolved. I have no objection to honourable senators: by rejecting certain points, they were perfectly in their law – I am thinking in particular of the scope of the increase in the CSG, in the case of pensioners and disability pensions, and the support scheme for farmers, which we re-read again on the second evening, after heated debates. I would point out that, at the initiative of the majority group, we have adopted a provision whereby the disability compensation benefit perceived by family caregivers, hitherto regarded as an income from capital, will now be regarded as income from work. It will therefore be subject to a lower CSG rate, for the sake of justice. We also removed an article introduced by the Senate that tended to exempt non-residents from social levies on capital income. We have also adopted, on my proposal, an amendment to the scale of the famous alcohol-free refresher beverage tax, which we have excluded from soy milk after epic debates which have led to a suspension of sittings. With regard to the disease branch, we have deleted Article 35 bis B, which dealt with testimonial access – I also referred to "compassionate use" – to innovative medicines. Although we have removed this article, we have been able to discuss this issue with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, which will allow us to move forward on this issue. We have also deleted Article 36a, which dealt with teleradiology, and, in Article 37, the procedure for accelerated investigation of CHAP – commissions for prioritisation of acts and benefits. This may seem technical, except for those who have followed with passion the debates of previous readings. In section 40, we went back to the Senate's restriction of the quality charter of advertising practices to promotional practices only. In section 41, we reinstated the mechanism for lowering the prices of medical devices beyond a spending cap. At the initiative of the Constructive Group, we have removed section 50 ter, introduced by the Senate, concerning the mutualization of disability compensation benefits – this provision had led a number of associations to the niche, after it was adopted at first reading by senators, and for cause! We have therefore followed the Constructive Group in this process. Finally, we come to the conclusion of a rich debate. On a number of points, we have made consensus progress, with the agreement of almost all parliamentary groups. I look forward to voting, in a few moments and for the last time, on this Social Security funding bill – before the next few years of this quinquennium. If I were to summarize it in a few words, I would say that this PLFSS is a text of purchasing power for French and French people. Through this text, we pay particular attention to the 6.5 million self-employed in our country, thanks to the abolition of the RSI. We will also strengthen the competitiveness of our businesses by transforming the competitiveness employment tax credit into a reduction in employer contributions. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Finally, this PLFSS includes very good health policy provisions, including the generalisation of telemedicine and the possibility of experimenting in the territories with the payment of care on the journey or at the episode of care. I would therefore like to thank you once again, Madam Minister, for this beautiful text, and each of you for your participation in the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u6	In the general debate, Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the reading of this PLFSS is quite different from the reading you made earlier in your opening speech. My colleagues in the La France insoumée group and myself, we love Social Security. It is part of the national heritage: it must be defended ardently. Social Security is a project that comes from afar: from the late nineteenth century to the early 1980s, through the founding episode of the programme of the Conseil national de la Résistance, France succeeded in building the best social protection system in the world. Let us be proud of this, for many countries are turning to us! It is true that you are not the only ones responsible for the problems that social security faces today. Many decisions taken by successive majorities have served more to unblock social security than to generalize, expand and strengthen it. From now on, I would simply say that the idea is no longer that everyone contributes to the level of his or her means and receives up to his or her needs, as evidenced by the use of the CSG, an unfair tax that burdens the low income and ultimately the most fortunate. Nor is the idea of extending social protection, enhancing access to care, helping the most vulnerable and caring for everyone. Many indicators show that the blows to our social security system have dramatic consequences, going so far as to degrade the healthy life expectancy of our citizens. After a long period of continuous progress, healthy life expectancy now stagnates or even declines. This is a major fact, which does not seem to move you too much. Clearly, it does not shock you that today, healthy life expectancy is lower in France than in other European countries – I am thinking in particular of Sweden, or even the United Kingdom. It doesn't shock you that a quarter of the insured people – I say a quarter – today, in 2017, give up care for financial reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u8	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u9	This does not shock you that hospitals close all over the country, limiting access to care for entire sections of the population. It doesn't shock you that in a country that has long been the bridgehead of social progress, the infant mortality rate – the infant mortality rate! – now on the rise, with a jump of almost 10% over the last two years. This does not shock you, obviously, that almost 20% of hospital beds have been closed in just over 10 years, taking into account demographic changes. It didn't shock you either that the number of hospitals reported to that of residents in an overseas department like Mayotte is ten times lower than that of a metropolitan department like Paris. It didn't shock you that there is an increasing number of suicides among medical personnel, particularly nurses and caregivers. I do not dramatize, ladies and gentlemen: the public hospital is suffering, and the development of private clinics should not please us. Access to care is increasingly expensive, and we are witnessing the emergence of two-tiered medicine in a country that has long defended the ideal of universal solidarity and assistance to everyone, regardless of their means. The wealthiest people benefit from the technological advances in the care and comfort of some private institutions, while the poorest and the poorest must be content with makeshift beds, sometimes in the corridors overflowing with suffering and misery of public emergency services. I don't caricature! I have here, in front of me, colleagues from Seine-Saint-Denis who know this: this is the reality in many hospitals in this department, where emergency services are often reduced to a simple corridor. In the field of social security, as in all other parts of society, I tell you everything from go, you clive, you divide, you separate and you sort. You defend a project of social insecurity: everything for the rich and so little for the poor, even to threaten the right to health. There is obviously no longer enough money for social security, public hospital, access to care or help with addiction, but there is always more money in tax havens, more money to exempt from the richest taxes and more money to offer without compensation to large companies, who take advantage of it to give their shareholders benefits. Your budget not only strengthens, but perpetuates the CICE while the price of a job created by this scheme is around 300,000 euros. Unfortunately, this is what your project is about: limiting solidarity, valuing what I would call a form of greed. One might believe in a caricature, but this is the sad portrait of the policies that are being carried out. With La France insoumée, you know – as we said in the presidential election – we are defending a completely different project: that of a social security made universal in a society that we wish benevolent. Technical progress, improved productivity and the development of new technologies must be of general interest, but this is not the case with your project. Almost all of the benefits derived from these advances are taken over by the great fortunes, which accumulate in the most extreme immorality and under the benevolent gaze of your majority. The press was moved by the fact that, after the adoption of the PLFSS, at first reading, some colleagues in this majority had been drinking champagne from Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Well, if you don't take care of it, this champagne will have a bitter taste tomorrow – if, however, this project were to be definitively adopted. For our part, we will vote against!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u12	People from your group were present! There were people from La France who were unsuspecting! That sucks! From Monday, it's small...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u13	That's normal. They do not benefit from any advantages...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u14	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beyond indignation, I would like to make this question resonate here with the philosopher Lucien Sève: "Do you think that humanity is going as badly as our planet, that the civilized dimension of the human race is in real danger, so that the urgent concern to safeguard nature is to add to the same level of importance that of safeguarding humanity in the qualitative sense of the word? " Ecological cause and anthropological cause inextricably linked. And to point out "the frenzy of the profitable", "the commodification of the human", "the devaluation of the values", "the fainting of the meaning" which, according to him, lead to "decivilization without shore". We're in this crisis. The symptoms are there. In a recent book, Roland Gori, Bernard Lubat and Charles Silvestre call for respect for trades, for return to work. The work, "from the simplest gesture to the most learned exercise", which "develops the common, humanity in man". Where is this loss most sensitive? In the health sector, they say, subject to the logic of cost and management, where "the doctor, invited to execute protocols, wants to remain or to become "the man of art" again and where, according to the OECD, nurses are paid below the European average. Care for the human, the whole human, does it not deserve a little time, a little delicacy, a little consideration and means to the height? Social security, perhaps the greatest social invention of the last century, is at the heart of this challenge. I did not want to begin by invoking history – which obliges us and whose creations we cannot profane without just reason – but if Social Security could only really be born with this powerful momentum of Liberation, as an antidote to barbarism, it is because it illustrates an idea so strong and so contrary to the interests of the dominant forces that it demanded an out-of-standard will. She has since been weakened and challenged by successive blows. And for good reason! There is in this idea something of what I call "communism": in the face of the vagaries of existence, go "from everyone according to his means, to each according to his needs". What a concrete force given to the principle of equality and what a just recognition for work, creator of values! Here, what do you want? Increase purchasing power, you said. This would be seen on the payroll by the abolition of the contribution, the socialised wage, shared and giving rights of a universal nature. After this simplistic com' operation, how will social protection be financed? By increasing the tax, you said, not the income tax, progressive – albeit too little – but the CSG. No doubt this is one of the most contested measures in the election campaign, which impacts seven million retirees presented as privileged a little flu-sweet. Their material situation becomes untenable. On the other hand, you have multiplied the gifts to the big owners and have not planned to return to them. So your increase in purchasing power will be self-financed by employees. We are living a great moment of mystification! In the same vein, you are also taking some contradictory measures in terms of family policy, policy in favour of the disabled or the elderly, a policy of the right hand which takes back what the left hand has given. For the rest, you continue the logic of reducing health spending, citing the relevance of spending as a place of substantial savings, which will find it difficult to prove itself given the restrictions that have been going on for so long. In the face of this profound human crisis, we must foster a completely different ambition for social protection and health. Consumption of medical care and goods was estimated at 8.9% of GDP in 2015, a slight decline, and social security financed 76.8%. It should tend to 100 per cent. In any case, we need more resources for social protection, but you're not going to look for them: you're delivering overburdening exemptions from employers' contributions, which is still growing the world's grip by some and the pollution of our societies by finance, which dreams of only one thing: offering itself new ground of speculation here. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] According to Lucien Sève, it is necessary to combine "with the most realistic awareness of the most ambitious vision of the necessary". In my constituency, a hospital is under stress, with staff who are suffering, a security centre has closed in a popular city, employees are worried about occupational diseases. Combined with the ordinances, this reform of fragility for social security and of compression for health draws us towards a worrying new social order and calls for new inventions and new conquests. That is why we will oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u16	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u17	Mr President, the Minister for Solidarity and Health, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting today for the final reading of the draft law on the financing of social security, the final stage in the examination of this text, which is the foundation for our legislature. This first five-year social security budget reflects the commitments on which the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republic on the move was elected. It is taking our country on the path of modernization and reform, while firmly aligning itself with the objective of returning to the balance of the branches of social security and ending the social debt. Thanks to the responsible trajectory proposed in this text, the social security deficit is expected to be at its lowest level in 2018 in 15 years. Yet the text that we are about to consider in final reading proposes ambitious reforms for the French and, first and foremost, for the most fragile. At first reading, the National Assembly and the Senate found many points of convergence, proof of the constructive work carried out by both chambers on this text. Thus, several key provisions of this budget have been validated in the Senate: abolition of the RSI, transformation of the CICE into a permanent relief of social charges, increase in the price of tobacco, extension of the vaccination obligation, historical increase in the minimum old age or, again, generalisation of telemedicine, innovation in health. However, two major points of disagreement remained. First of all, section 7 providing for the reduction of salary contributions in return for the 1.7-point increase in CSG had been profoundly transformed by the Senate. That is why, in the Assembly's new reading, we have continued to take a pedagogy to ensure that this measure is understood by the French, to explain once again that small pensions will not be affected by the increase in the CSG, that the ageing of the population requires us to review the financing of our social protection system, that solidarity between the generations can only go in one direction. If we have restored this measure to a new reading, it is because it is fair to the French, because without it it is the very balance of this budget that is collapsing. Incarnate modernity in this assembly also means taking on our responsibilities. At the same time, the re-reading of Article 7 allowed the majority group to propose two important amendments. The first is part of a priority that we put at the forefront during the presidential and legislative campaigns: aid for carers, those people who, every day, care for a close relative in a situation of dependency or disability. Improving their quality of life is a fundamental objective. The second is to compensate for the increase in the CSG for the authors so that they are not unfairly penalized. The debate we had last week helped to find a solution for these key players in the world of culture. I can only welcome the mobilization of the majority group on this subject. The Senate had also deleted article 26 of the text providing for the harmonization of the scale and ceilings of the early childhood care benefit and the family supplement. Again, this is an essential measure for the readability of aid and the balance of this budget, which makes it possible to provide the necessary resources for a more supportive family policy. With an increase of 30 per cent in the childcare supplement for single-parent families, an increase in the family support allowance and the increased amount of the family supplement, this policy is firmly in line with the fight against the poverty of families and children. Members of the La République en marche take on these choices, and that is why they supported the re-establishment of Article 26 in a new reading last week. They also supported an amendment to re-establish a provision deleted by the Senate that paved the way for the harmonization of the criteria for the allocation of nursery places. This is a necessary transparency measure when so many families are now faced with obscure and often unfair decisions when registering their children for crèche. The re-reading in the National Assembly also made it possible to adjust the scale of the sweet drinks tax, a major measure to prevent obesity. Before concluding my remarks, I would like to thank the Minister for Solidarity and Health and the Minister for Action and Public Accounts and their teams for the quality of the discussions we have had on this text. The work we have done in the La République Group, but also with the opposition groups, alongside the rapporteur-general Olivier Véran and the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Brigitte Bourguignon, should be welcomed. The text we adopted on a new reading reflects our commitments to a fairer and more inclusive social protection system based on sound finances. It places prevention and innovation at the heart of our health system and makes clear choices for the most vulnerable, those who need our full attention and support. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, and for these commitments, the La République group on the move will vote in favour of this draft law on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u18	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u19	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, Mr. Rapporteur-General, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday, honourable senators made the choice of adopting a motion to oppose the previous question, which leads us to conclude this evening on a text identical to that adopted by the National Assembly at second reading. There are still disagreements between the Senate, your government and your majority in the National Assembly, which will lead members of the Republicans to vote against this Social Security funding bill. However, for the first time in five years, this PLFSS could have been the subject of an agreement by our group, if it had not included articles which, in our view, had nothing to do with such a text. You missed the opportunity for you, Minister, to mark your arrival in this great ministry with a break with the past. We can only regret your choice, we who support a concerted and as consensual approach as possible. We regret it all the more because a number of essential articles do not give rise to any substantive disagreement on our part. I want to talk about the transformation of the competitiveness employment tax credit – CICE – into a reduction of expenses – even if we do not agree on the rate chosen –, the white year of contributions for business starters, or the adjustment of the tax on sweet drinks. In this connection, I would like to thank you, Madam Minister, the rapporteur-general, for having acknowledged the validity of my argument and that of Thierry Benoit on soy-based milk. Nor do I forget our agreement on your proposals on vaccination, on the abolition of the obligation to apply the generalised fee-paying third party, or on experiments aimed at promoting a true care path and a better efficiency of care. All these points, which have been particularly important in the past, have been discussed and then agreed on by us. That is to say, Madam Minister, if, with the will of the Government, agreement could have been reached on the whole text. But, with the unconditional support of your majority, you have insisted on refusing our proposals on the main articles of this PLFSS. We maintain our firm and resolute opposition to the increase in the generalised social contribution – CSG – for pensioners, even if the exemption for recipients of the disability compensation benefit is a point of satisfaction. I also regret your decision to delete section 7 bis, introduced by the Senate, concerning the taxation of French nationals abroad. You didn't want to hear my argument, and I'm afraid your choice is expensive for our country. With regard to the abolition of the social regime of the self-employed – RSI – we continue to believe that this proposal should have been the subject of a full text and that it has nothing to do with this PLFSS. Jean-Pierre Door has told you on several occasions that he was, in our opinion, a rider. You are taking the risk of putting RSI affiliates in an even more complex situation than they are experiencing today. Finally, the reduction in the early childhood care benefit – PAJE – will affect many low-income families. You are going to deprive many women of the right to work because they cannot have their children cared for, and you will also deprive many mothers of the children they care for. I have told you and I repeat: this is not our vision of family policy. Since the family policy fact-finding mission will soon begin its work, you should have waited for its conclusions before making such a decision. All these elements must not make us forget that there are still many problems to be solved. I am thinking of the abyssal deficits in public hospitals and the situation of emergency services. I am thinking of new treatments and medical devices, often expensive, but indispensable for the care of patients, their comfort of life and the fight against the most serious diseases. I am also thinking of organ transplants, which we must continue to facilitate, and palliative care, which we must develop in all hospital services, as well as at home. Finally, I am thinking of hospital and EHPAD staff, of the ageing of the population and of so many other issues that we will have to resolve during this quinquennium. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On all these points, Madam Minister, you will find us at your side whenever you have to find the most appropriate solutions for the French and French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u20	On the whole of the draft law on the financing of social security, I am seized by the groups IUD, Agir et indépendants and La France insubmission of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, it is with pride, and even with some emotion, that I am speaking today in this House, as we are about to vote definitively on the first five-year social security funding bill. The members of the MODEM Group supported this text throughout its consideration and we welcome its broad guidelines. Indeed, the PLFSS for 2018 sets a clear and ambitious course for our social system, in order to make it fairer, more supportive and more innovative. It will better combat medical desertification, improve our prevention system and free up health innovation, including through the deployment of telemedicine. Of course, we regret that the Government did not hear us on a number of points that were of great interest to us. Minister, you know how much energy we have deployed to defend the purchasing power of the most modest pensioners and farmers. We regret that a strong signal was not sent to them. It seemed fair to us that 50% of retirees should be exempt from the CSG increase. Similarly, it is incomprehensible to us that farmers, hard hit by successive crises, are the only assets for which the increase in the CSG will not be fully compensated. The specific burden reductions granted to them in 2015 were necessary to strengthen the competitiveness of our agricultural sector. We now call on the Government to take regulatory measures to redress this unjust situation, especially as it committed itself to doing so at first reading. I would also like to say a word about family policy, which must remain strong and ambitious. We regret, Madam Minister, the action you have taken in this area under this PLFSS. We deplore it first of all on the merits, since it represents a loss of 15 euros per month for births reported from 1 April 2018 and will result in a 10 % decrease in the number of beneficiaries of the basic allowance of the EYAP. Madam Minister, while we welcome the additional EUR 70 million, particularly for single-parent families and the most disadvantaged, these appropriations remain modest compared to the savings of EUR 500 million over three years resulting from the EYAP measure. That being said, we agree with you and believe that it is consistent to align the amounts of the EYAP and the family supplement, since these two allowances follow one another in the life of a child, one being affected before his or her three years, the other after. In fact, we would have supported this measure, if alignment had been made upwards, not downwards. We also disapprove of this measure on form. Indeed, we have heard and respected the Government's call to observe a status quo this year, with a view to concerted action for the emergence of measures to renew our family policy in a comprehensive and coherent framework next year. That is why we have agreed to withdraw all the amendments on family policy that we have tabled on the PLF and the PLFSS, pending the fact-finding mission to be launched shortly by the Committee on Social Affairs. We would therefore have liked the Government itself to observe the status quo that we have agreed to respect and to wait until next year to take any decision on the EYAP. This request had, moreover, obtained a broad consensus on our benches, as well as in the Senate, and we know that our rapporteur-general was not indifferent to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u23	Strengthening family policy today means thinking about the children of tomorrow, and about French society and the social and solidarity model after tomorrow. The Government could count on the MODEM group to make constructive proposals, in the general interest. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite our reservations about these three points, we will enthusiastically vote on this PLFSS for 2018, which contains many expected and essential measures, which are firmly in line with the goal of reducing deficits, for the future of our children. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] I would like to conclude by thanking the Minister, our rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, as well as all the Commissioners and, beyond that, all the elected representatives who sat on these benches, for the exchanges we had, which were often of good quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u24	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u25	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur-general, the special rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, for the UDI Group, Action and Independents, this first draft law on the financing of social security contains two serious errors, two ambivalent measures and several positive measures. I will start with the two serious mistakes. You know, minister, that we have two substantive disagreements with you, with respect to this 2018 Social Security Funding Bill – I'm talking about clauses 7 and 26. In Article 7, your proposed 1.7-point increase in the CSG rate is both socially unjust and contrary to the constitutional principle of equality between citizens. On equal income, in fact, you do not treat the various French social categories in the same way. This measure, which will in no way improve the competitiveness of enterprises, will also seriously penalise the purchasing power of pensioners. Indeed, you take 1.7 points on pensions for people over 60 years old and receiving more than 1240 euros per month – and 1400 euros, beyond 65 years – to finance an increase of 1.4% in the purchasing power of employees earning up to 13000 euros per month. It's a downshift! Your mechanism does not provide for any increase in purchasing power for public servants. Between private employees and public employees, therefore, you implicitly consider that private employees are not paid enough, while public servants are paid enough! You do not expect any increases for government officials and, for territorial and hospital officials, we still expect to know how you will compensate for this 0.7% purchasing power gap. What I know, in any case, is that the amount of any compensation, if you lower the rate of employer contributions, does not exist in your budget. You are referring this question to a future discussion, but I would remind you that this provision must apply on 1 January, which means that we must move quickly. Finally, agricultural self-employed people will be severely penalized by the increase in contributions you plan to make. You consider that the 7% reduction in social contributions obtained last year by farmers are not renewable. This is completely incorrect, because it was a decree that was not limited in time. But you are planning to remove it, so that between 2017 and 2018, you will increase by 120 million euros the amount of social contributions for the social category that has the lowest income in France. Indeed, all farmers with a monthly income of less than EUR 1125 will experience an increase. As for the most modest savers, they will be taxed more than the richest because, with this 1.7-point increase, you overwhelm the most modest savers and save – that's the case! – the richest. Given the flat tax ceiling of 30%, the tax rate, income tax and CSG combined from 15.5 to 17.2 per cent, the marginal rate of income tax will fall to 12.8 per cent, i.e. lower than the first instalment of income tax, which is 14 per cent. Your mechanism, far from promoting the competitiveness of enterprises, will even penalise agricultural enterprises. And the comparison that was made by many members of the majority with the measure advocated by the old opposition, to increase the VAT rate by 2%, is not at all relevant, since this increase was to be devoted, for two thirds to the reduction of employers' social contributions to enterprises, and for one third to the decrease of employees' social contributions. The second measure we are challenging is the one you are planning to take under section 26, because it once again undermines the principle of the universality of family allowances – you are not the first to do so, Madam Minister: it is a long tradition! In any case, it again illustrates the drift from family policy towards income policy. I come to the two points on which we are concerned. This is first of all the increase in the price of the reference cigarette package from 7 to 10 euros. For us, the policy of raising tobacco prices makes sense only if it is based on a European perspective. Otherwise – unfortunately, the Government is not taking strong action at European level to try to persuade our partners, especially our neighbours, to harmonize – it will simply result in maintaining the prevalence rate, which is one of the highest in Europe, and will lead to a further reduction in tax revenues, because you will not get the 500 million euros expected, Madam Minister – we will talk about this next year. Secondly, we find it ambiguous to adopt the social system of self-employed persons into the general system. In particular, how much will the contributions of the self-employed increase? You tell us "from scratch", but we will see it tested. Nevertheless, there are several good measures in the text:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u26	Please conclude, Monsieur de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u27	... support for innovation, the increase in the minimum old age and the allowance for adults with disabilities, the abolition of the generalised paying third party – you have abandoned this clarification – and the transformation of the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, even if we can still work to improve it. In conclusion, the IDU, Action and Independent Group is not fully convinced by this first Social Security funding bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u28	Thank you, Mr. de Courson...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u29	A majority of the group will therefore vote against, while a number of its members will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u30	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this text is at its final stage. I thank my colleague Joël Aviragnet, who could not be present tonight, for following him from the beginning for the New Left Group. Madam Minister, you are a beautiful person: your journey and your commitments are well known to all, and you embody in a beautiful way what a Minister of Health can be. From this point of view, the President of the Republic has made a bold and judicious choice because, like all magicians, he has the talent to fix our gaze on what must be seen while, with the other hand, he practices what must not be. It makes you take on a policy that is not lacking in skill: as he sets our gaze on his left hand, which increases the allowance for adults with disabilities or the increase of the assistance to single-parent families, and thus diverts our attention, from his right hand, it lowers the benefit for the young child, freezes retirement pensions, increases the hospital package, eliminates the generalization of the paying third party and increases the CSG for individuals while lowering social contributions on stock options. Emmanuel Macron said it himself: he is not Santa Claus. Everyone will agree with what I have just said. I would like to list our eight points of disagreement on this text. The first concerns the elimination of the generalised third-party fee, which amounts to sacrificing access to care. You have decided to switch from the generalised pay third party to the generalizable pay third party. How can we better say the failure of political will? This was one of the flagship measures of the previous quinquennium, which should have come into force gradually, as the 2016 law for the modernization of our health system provided for several stages. This is the first measure I regret in your policy today. Second point of disagreement: with this Social Security funding bill, you continue to make many gifts to capital, as you did with the finance bill. You have adopted an amendment lowering the employer contribution rate for distribution of free shares from 30 to 20%. By the same token, you confirm your willingness to always give the same gifts they did not need. The third point of disagreement is the increase in the CSG. You explained that intergenerational solidarity was necessary, that pensioners had to pay for the assets. This is the operation you are asking us to conduct. In this operation, the poorest pensioners, you say, will be moved. The poorest, no doubt, but the most modest, certainly not! For pensioners who receive more than 1200 euros per month will have to pay a higher rate of CSG, which is quite incomprehensible. In the end, the equation you are writing is simple: it consists in saying that, from 1200 euros, a pensioner is rich, while a millionaire or a billionaire is not – I am referring to flat tax and the replacement of the solidarity tax on wealth by the property tax. The fourth point of disagreement: the retirement pension freeze in 2018. You have decided to postpone the retirement pension adjustment date by three months, from 1 October to 1 January, resulting in the loss of a year of revalorisation for pensioners and the freezing of their pensions in 2018. This measure, which will save €380 million in 2018, €405 million in 2019 and €490 million in 2020, will add to the 1.7-point increase in CSG and will worsen the deterioration in the purchasing power of pensioners. Fifth point of disagreement: the decline in the EYAP, whose target is, this time, families. Not only will the basic allocation of the EYAP be reduced by 15 euros per month from 1 April 2018, but the resource ceilings will also be reduced. This will deprive 150,000 families of this benefit, which was a measure of justice. This will save 500 million euros after three years on the backs of families. The sixth point of disagreement: the increase in the hospital package. You have decided to increase it by 2 euros, which will lead to an increase in the price of health supplements for all. However, unlike social security contributions, which are proportional to income, the rates for health supplements do not depend, I would remind you, on the resources of the contributors. This increase will therefore have a greater impact on the most modest and the middle classes. Seventh point of disagreement: the €4.2 billion savings borne by health insurance. The rate of increase in expenditure has been set at 2% for the hospital...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u32	Please conclude, Mr Faure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u33	... and 2.6% for medical and social institutions – I finish, Mr. President. This will result in severe restrictions on the ground, which will be very difficult to follow for hospitals. Finally, the eighth point of disagreement: you have decided to raise the solidarity allowance for the elderly over three years. However, the Government is focusing on this upgrading of the ASPA to mask the "president of the rich".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u34	Thank you, Mr Faure...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u35	My conclusion will be very brief, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u36	As you know, speaking time is the same for all speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u37	I know that very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u38	You've already passed it by a minute.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u39	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Finally, I simply regret that the great fortunes are, each time, privileged and that others still have to wait a long time. I also regret that you did not want to move forward with us on the issue of medical deserts. I would like to announce that we will come back to this issue on the occasion of a forthcoming parliamentary niche.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u40	The general discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u41	Do not vote for the increase in the CSG, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u42	I'm sure you've already had an opportunity to speak, Mr. Le Fur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u43	I put to the vote the entire Social Security funding bill for 2018, as it follows from the text voted by the National Assembly in new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u44	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u45	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u46	The next item is the discussion of the draft amending finance law for 2017 (No. 384, 432).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u47	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u48	Mr President, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, Mr President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to express to you all the pleasure I have to meet you for the examination of this fifth autumn financial text, which I have the honour to present. We are thus completing our budgetary marathon, even though we still have long hours apart from the end of December. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of parliamentarians and their collaborators, and in particular that of the rapporteur-general, whose expertise is valuable. We will have the opportunity to continue working on this text after the committee, and I look forward to the arguments that we can exchange. As you know, in view of this busy timetable, the Government has committed itself to minimizing the number of articles and amendments to this text, although it will make a number of proposals which I hope will be welcomed in this House. If you allow me a final word on the procedure, Mr President, I would like to reaffirm before you a new ambition for the examination of the year-end budget collective. I will propose, with the agreement of the presidency of the National Assembly and of the Senate, in an approach of "syncrization" of the presentation of accounts, that the Government commit itself in the future to no longer resort to an advance decree at the end of the year, the best being often the enemy of the good. This is a demanding path, which requires both a political agreement with all of your groups, in particular with the Chairman of the Finance Committee, so that the final draft of the amending finance bill will be adopted at the beginning of December, and a technical agreement so that the Government undertakes to include only the most essential provisions – including guarantees and a management end-of-management scheme. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. With regard to this draft law on amending finance, the stakes are threefold: to confirm and complete the process of the energisation of our accounts begun this summer, following the publication of the audit of the Court of Auditors, which we have discussed many times here; improving, simplifying and enhancing the efficiency of administrative action in tax matters under secure conditions, while reducing the burden on collecting companies; Finally, make various budgetary adjustments necessary to implement the Government's priorities – as I mentioned earlier. First, we are continuing our process of "syncrization" of our accounts started in the summer. As you can see, this collective confirms the macroeconomic and fiscal assumptions adopted at the time of the preparation of the 2018 Finance Bill, namely a growth rate of 1.7% and a government deficit of 2.9% in all jurisdictions in 2017. Of course, we could have done otherwise, and the recent publications of the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – INSEE – suggest that we may have a slightly higher growth rate, but caution has led us not to change the assumptions. This serious budget is to be put to the credit of the Government, no matter where you sit. Secondly, this text confirms that the Government will fulfil its commitments in the area of public finances, and first and foremost compliance with the European rule of 3 per cent by 2017, which will be achieved at the cost of significant efforts in both expenditure and revenue – I would like to thank my Government colleagues and parliamentarians who are interested in these issues – given the contentious cancellation of the 3 per cent tax on distributed dividends. In terms of expenditure, the cancellations this summer, which amounted to more than EUR 3 billion and caused a lot of ink to flow, accompanied by measures to slow down expenditure for more than EUR 1 billion, will be supplemented by almost EUR 850 million of cancellations, which are contained in the advance decree on which your committee, as in the Senate, gave a favourable opinion – I thank him. These cancellations will make it possible to finance an equivalent amount of essential openings in the very short term: I am thinking in particular of the salaries of our teachers, or the credits of our armed forces in external operations – this has been widely mentioned. In the end, the recovery measures in 2017 will therefore have amounted to more than €5 billion, an unprecedented amount under management. Adding the necessary appropriations at this stage of the year, given the lack of initial budgeting – around EUR 3 billion – will have required more than EUR 7 billion in appropriations during the year, which is the figures put forward by the Court of Auditors in its audit published this summer. Finally, this amending finance bill completes for 2017 the fiscal "sincerization" exercise of the budget begun this summer by clearing a number of debts – for example, that of the Office of the Atomic Energy Commissioner, the CEA, in respect of Areva, or the debt under the asylum-seeker's allowance in respect of Pôle emploi – and is expected to reduce the amount of appropriations carried over from year to year, which had tended to increase dangerously every year. We're putting an end to this spiral. Secondly, it implements a number of provisions designed to improve, simplify and enhance the efficiency of administrative action in tax matters. First of all, the Government confirms the implementation of the income tax levy at source as of January 1, 2019, strongly demanded by Mr.Le Fur, whose enthusiasm I salute. As you know, we wanted to give us time by delaying its implementation by one year. Well, whatever those who have spoken before me say, we have to check that this reform will be carried out without harm to companies or households – we will come back to it in the debate on the amendments. We draw, in this amending finance bill, the conclusions of the recommendations made by the audit mission led by the General Inspectorate of Finance – the IGF – and the Mazars cabinet, as well as those of this summer's experiment, for which Parliament was, as I had committed myself, the recipient. It seemed to me normal to draw the conclusions of the experiment after it took place. Mr de La Palice would not have said better, but he has not always been responsible to Bercy lately. In detail, the Government drew lessons from the difficulties encountered in the experiments and proposals made by the IGF and the parliamentary committees. The proposed scheme has thus been strengthened by accompanying and simplifying measures, in particular for businesses, but also for taxpayers. For the latter, a communication mechanism will be implemented throughout 2018. I believe that the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFIP – has had the opportunity to present to you in committee the main steps in the application of the income tax source levy, and I thank him for this, as it has probably been of interest to many Members. Penalties will be relaxed in the event of an erroneous downward adjustment of their rates by taxpayers. For the specific case of managers and associates, taxed income which has the nature of non-commercial profits will be subject to the levy at source in the form of a contemporary down payment, as for self-employed workers. I think this is a good measure. For collectors, i.e. for companies in particular, but also for associations, local authorities and, more broadly, for all employers, the minimum amount of the fine applicable in the event of a declaratory failure of the collector of the withholding tax is reduced by half, from EUR 500 to EUR 250. A pre-figuration phase is set up at the end of 2018, in order to run the system before its operational implementation. The DSN – a nominative social declaration – will be widespread, which is a guarantee of simplification. By the time we should have put it in place, it was present in 97% of companies, which is a high percentage. The remaining 3% is under political action, particularly for smaller enterprises. We will reach 100% when the tax at source is operational, as of January 1, 2019. Still in a logic of improving the relationship of trust between taxpayers and the administration, I add that this amending finance bill provides for the reduction – finally! – half the rate of interest on late payment due by the taxpayer and interest on moratoriums due by the State. Indeed, the Government considered that the State could not continue to charge taxpayers interest rates that had become much higher than those on the market, which they had all seen had fallen sharply in recent years. Interest on arrears paid by the taxpayer and, by symmetry, interest on moratoriums paid by the State will be reduced from 4.8 per cent to 2.4 per cent per year. Finally, because there is no consent to tax without tax justice, this year-end collective provides for various measures to strengthen the fight against fraud. It first provides for a measure specifying the obligations of financial institutions with regard to the identification of account holders, as well as the arrangements for monitoring these obligations and the penalties applicable in the event of non-compliance, in the context of automatic exchange of information. The text also contains an anti-abuse measure for countries which do not engage in administrative assistance with France, or which are listed as non-cooperative States, with a reversal of the burden of proof: from now on, it will be up to the taxpayer to demonstrate that the holding of assets in these countries does not have a tax purpose. This is a very important provision. It also provides for a measure to harmonise and simplify the procedures for forced collection implemented by public accountants, and a measure to consolidate the control by the tax administration of the maintenance of regulated savings accounts. I would add, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government will be very open to your initiatives in this area, as recent events have reminded us of the need to strengthen European and international cooperation in the fight against tax fraud and optimisation. I am sure that, as usual, this debate will be nourished. Finally, this budget collective presents various measures in close connection with current government events, which deserve to be highlighted. I'll mention some of them. First, we align the support provided by the Out-of-school Development Fund with the freedom given to communities to finally leave the four-day week. It is logical that the municipalities which choose the four-day week and which, therefore, no longer have to bear the costs associated with the increase in school rhythms, will no longer benefit from it. Symmetrically, those who will continue to implement the reform will always receive this aid, which was intended to be temporary and tends to become permanent. Secondly, in order to prepare for the major event of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, the State is providing in this text, as I had committed myself to it during the budget debate, its guarantee for the preparations for the Olympic Games. First of all, as the previous government had committed itself in the application file, the sums advanced by the IOC – the International Olympic Committee – will be guaranteed in the event of the cancellation of the Olympic Games. Secondly, in addition to the €48 million in appropriations provided by the draft finance law, it is proposed that the State should be the guarantor of the loans subscribed by the OCOG – Olympic Games Organizing Committee. It echoes other debates, which you have had with me and with the Minister of Sport. Thirdly, one of the articles carries the guarantee of loans from the savings funds of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations granted to Action logement, in support of housing reform – of which you have examined part in the revenue section of the finance bill, a second part in the expenditure section, and of which you will examine other provisions in the housing bill that Jacques Mézard and Julien Denormandie will present. The fourth part of this reform, i.e. the guarantee of loans, will enable social donors to continue to implement this scheme in consultation. This consists of a guarantee granted to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to the tune of EUR 1.2 billion, allowing it to grant up to EUR 2 billion of high-balance-sheet subsidized loans for social donors in order to finance the construction of social housing. Their enhancement will be financed by Housing Action. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the UAI group]] Finally, in the area of local taxation, provisions provide for the codification of the new modalities for revising the rental values of commercial premises and the postponement of the permanent updating of these local professional rates until January 1, 2019. You will allow me a facet, Mr Woerth: you were the minister who, seven years ago, launched the reform; I'm happy to be the one who's opening it. This illustrates the slowness and difficulty of the reform, and should encourage those who want the immediate revision of the rental values of dwellings to meditate on an evolution that will take nineteen years – seven plus twelve – to reach its end. Everyone will be able to reflect on this long time, which echoes the pleasure I will have to spend several nights with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u49	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u50	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary marathon is continuing today with the examination of the traditional collective at the end of the year. This is the second amending finance bill for 2017 before us. The passing of two amending finance laws for the same year is nothing unusual, since this corresponds to the average observed since the entry into force of the Organization Act on Finance Laws. In this regard, I recall that the years 2010 and 2011 were record years, marked by four amending financial laws. The first amending finance law was passed last Friday. It drew the consequences of the Constitutional Council's cancellation of the 3% contribution on the amounts distributed and created exceptional contributions due from the largest companies. It is intended to keep a government deficit target below 3% of GDP. The second project is more classic. It adjusts the level of appropriations and updates the revenue and balance forecasts. From this point of view, the end-of-year collectives are very useful and contribute to the sincerity of the budgetary debate. The forecast of the state budget deficit for 2017 is thus revised to €74.1 billion, which is €4.8 billion more than foreseen by the original finance law adopted under the previous legislature. This is mainly due to an underestimation of non-tax revenue and underbudgeting of expenditure which the Court of Auditors had highlighted in its audit in June. Such a pitfall must not be renewed in 2018, and it will not happen again, thanks to the sincere efforts of the budget that have been made and recognized, including on the benches of the opposition. The draft also contains a number of technical provisions, as is customary for end-of-year collectives. It includes 24 tax items, including a change to the source levy on income tax and a reduction in the interest rate on late payment and a moratorium. It also includes three articles on guarantees and an article on the impact of the relaxation of school rhythms on support from the Fund to support the development of extracurricular activities. These articles, which have been examined in committee, have all been adopted, with the exception of Rule 22, for which we have adopted an amendment to delete the text tabled by Mr Lise Magnier.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u52	In fact, this article created an annual tax on the exclusive research permits of geothermal gites, whose product is valued at only 40000 euros, which left us, collectively, somewhat puzzled. We have also adopted 27 amending amendments, excluding the same drafting amendments. In this way, we have particularly enriched clause 9 of the Draft Amending Finance Act, which is an important section on the adjustment of the source levy of income tax. It contains a series of simplification and precision measures. It introduces a phase of pre-figuration of the levy at source from September 2018 which will allow, on the basis of volunteerism, to carry out a full-scale test, in order to familiarize collectors and employees with the scheme before its actual implementation. On Article 9, the committee adopted five amendments which I have tabled: a clarification amendment to extend explicitly to temporary employment contracts the reduction allowing the calculation of the default rate applicable to fixed-term contracts; an amendment allowing, during the pre-figuration phase, to opt for the individualised rate, Article 9 providing only for the neutral rate option; three amendments on the criminal aspect, one specifically providing for the application of criminal sanctions from the beginning of the pre-figuration phase, and the other two aimed at introducing sanctions more proportionate to the seriousness of the offence in two cases: that of a breach of professional secrecy by persons aware of a taxpayer's tax rate, and in the event of delay in the payment of deductions at source. A sixth amendment to Article 9, submitted by François Pupponi, provides for a smoothing of the effect of the white year for work on historical monuments; However, we are still awaiting an assessment of the amendment on this point. I would also like to point out a fine example of constructive and trans-partisan parliamentary work which I hope we can reproduce in the future on the residence tax. The committee adopted two amendments signed by representatives of all the groups. The first provides for a change in the scale of the residence tax, to apply to non-classified accommodation a tax proportional to the price of the overnight stay per person and capped, which will therefore not disadvantage families.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u54	The second makes the collection of the tax mandatory by internet platforms when they are payment intermediaries for non-professional renters. On zoning with tax advantages, the committee adopted two amendments. A first amendment by Fabien Roussel to Article 13 introduces a local hiring clause to benefit from the exemptions provided for in the new urban basins to be boosted. A second amendment, which I have tabled, is intended to extend to non-individual enterprises the exemption from income tax or corporate tax applicable in areas of rural revitalization during the first family transfer of a company; This is a measure of consistency with the scheme, relating to individual businesses, which we passed in the 2018 Finance Bill and which the Senate passed in compliance. In the area of property taxation, the committee has adopted four amendments: an amendment I have tabled provides for an exemption for capital gains in the event of a "dismissal" procedure, as already exists for expropriation procedures; an amendment by the New Left Group provides for a two-year extension of the capital gains exemption in the event of a transfer to a social housing organisation; an amendment from the MODEM group provides for the publication of land values by the administration; Finally, an amendment co-signed by our special rapporteurs on agricultural credits, Émilie Cariou and Hervé Pellois, renewed for three years the land tax relief for pastoral land associations. Also on the tax side, the committee proposes an amendment to the initiative of the Republic on the move, which provides for a three-year extension of the phonographic tax credit, an amendment by our colleague Bénédicte Peyrol, which aims to ensure the compatibility of the special merger regime with European law in certain cases, and an amendment by our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei which specifies that the exemption of small electricity producers applies only when they consume electricity produced in full. Three amendments were adopted to increase or protect certain rights. Two amendments I have tabled are designed to allow the opening of an account to persons who do not have a tax identification number and to extend the ceiling on bank charges resulting from forced collection measures. An amendment by our colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz aims to protect institutions that pay for regulated savings from changes in administrative doctrine and double controls when they are subject to the new verification procedure provided for in Article 26. For the benefit of local and regional authorities, we have also adopted two amendments: an amendment by Jean-Paul Mattei which states that the Fund for equalisation of transfer rights for consideration takes into account municipalities with a population of up to 5000 inhabitants, and not only municipalities with a population of less than 5000 inhabitants; an amendment, which I have tabled, extending from 120 to 240 days the exemption period of TGAP – the general tax on polluting activities – in its waste component, for municipalities affected by a natural disaster. We have also addressed the question of the quantities of rum that can be released for consumption or exported, by adopting an amendment by Olivier Serva to increase these quantities within the limits permitted by European law. We also dealt with the case of motorhomes in Corsica, by adopting an amendment by Michel Castellani creating an ecotax depending on the length of the stay. These examples illustrate the variety of topics dealt with by our committee. The sports theme was also discussed in committee with the adoption of an amendment by Perrine Goulet, our Special Rapporteur, providing for an increase in the ceiling of the tax allocated to the CNDS – National Centre for the Development of Sport – of €27 million. Finally, the committee adopted two amendments requesting reports: one presented by President Eric Woerth on the implementation of the budgetary means of major transport infrastructure projects; Another, presented by François Pupponi, on the assessment of the consequences of lowering the threshold for the payment of taxes and public revenue in cash on taxpayers, provided for in Article 30. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on several benches of the UAI group]] The public examination, I am sure, will further improve and enrich this year-end collective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u55	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u56	[[Smile]] Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at a second collective budget, but one could say that there is a third: the one you tabled on Thursday evening. You filed four days ago no less than thirty articles, which almost doubles the volume of the collective. I don't know if it's ever seen, but in any case, it's a lot: we're talking about 30 additional articles, to report to about 30 original articles, if we ignore the mandatory articles. This is a problem for national representation, because the committee is being bypassed in a way: many amendments were discussed, shortly before the sitting, at the meeting of Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, or rather, I should say, were travelled at the speed of a TGV that would be rolling. You also short-circuit the Council of State, which makes you take legal risks: this is not good news. So we must ban this practice – I am sure, minister, that you agree with me. If I understand correctly, you are announcing a different collective for next year, but the one whose examination we are starting today looks singularly like others – unfortunately, it is probably worse than the others... France is returning to growth today. That's good news, but I'm sorry you weren't fully using it. Growth will consolidate around 1.7% or 1.8%, or slightly less than 2%, which makes it possible to initiate reforms – I am not saying that it is easy to reform our country, but it is easier to do so when it is beautiful, that is, in times of growth, than when it is very bad, that is, in times of recession or crisis. This growth must therefore be used to the full. I note that it allows you to display a fairly large deficit reduction. The rapporteur-general of the Senate Finance Committee, Alberic de Montgolfier, states in his report that the improvement in the economic situation has reduced the French deficit by about 0.4 percentage points of GDP since the spring. Thus, if there were no growth and the cycle we have seen in recent years has continued, the deficit would not be less than 3% but rather close to 3.3%. We must therefore go further by using this margin of manoeuvre, which is extremely important, and even considerable, in terms of revenue. In fact, you often keep some of these revenues under control, in order to use them for good reasons, and I agree with you: that's why you did not use them in the first budget collective. However, it is rather paradoxical that growth, which boosts the country's economy – and that is so much better! –, may anaesthetize a little the will to go far in the reform. Some previous governments have experienced the same pitfall, and we must be very careful not to repeat the mistake made, long ago, by Lionel Jospin. Current growth is not enough to bring the current deficit to an acceptable level. Of course, France may be going out of the excessive deficit procedure, and that is so much better, but from year to year, we are flirting with the 3% mark. I do not know how much Eurostat will assess the French deficit in 2017, given the recapitalisation of Areva and the 3% dividend tax, but we should reach 2.9% of GDP. Next year, the deficit is expected to be around 2.8% or a little below if revenues are higher than expected. In 2019, we will return to 3%, despite the removal of the CICE. Even in times of growth, we find it very difficult to stay below 3%, a ceiling which is not theoretical but, on the contrary, extremely practical. Such a level of deficit does not make it possible to stem the increase in debt in France. Beyond the deficit in public finances as a whole, allow me to focus on the deficit of the state itself. Despite some good surprises in 2017 – I am thinking, for example, of the revenue levy for the European Union, or of the €2 billion in additional revenue compared to the original finance law – this second fiscal collective shows that government spending is growing by €5 billion. So we're not in a spending control exercise; On the contrary, I repeat, expenditure appears to be more important today, that is to say at the end of the financial year, than at the time of the vote on the original finance law. I know that you are not responsible for the budgetary implementation of the whole year, but we see that the effort to control public expenditure is particularly lacking. On this subject, of course, we must be very vigilant. In 2018, the situation will be about the same: it seems to me that there is not – I am trying to be objective – an attempt to control public expenditure on the substance, that is, on the very structure of this expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u58	Nor will I elaborate on my arguments on this point: we did so during the review of the 2018 Finance Bill, and we will do so regularly starting next year, following the expenditure trend in 2018. As such, the presentation of the advance decree has shown that you wish, of course, to cancel credits – even if you also open them elsewhere – but that these cancellations were very little about structural reforms, that is, about the ability to contain an expenditure and to profoundly change a public policy. In fact, you use, as usual, a well-known mechanism that is that of the planing. I do not blame you for saving money under this decree in advance, but for reusing bad methods, which have always prevailed and which must be done today. You highlight your sincerity: that's very good! But when we look at the appropriations for external operations – OPEX – we find that the ratio between the appropriations actually committed and the appropriations entered in the budget was lower in 2009 than today, even if the actual expenditure is now a little higher. Eight years ago, budget appropriations covered 60 per cent of final expenditure; Today, this rate is 40%. As I said, spending is increasing, but sincerity must apply to the assessment of actual spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u59	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u60	So you are only half your sincere effort, which is not at all up to what it should be. This fiscal collective also allows you to initiate the Eckert reform, which provides for the withholding of income tax at source. For my part, I don't think that's a good idea. While it is useful to reduce the time lag between revenue collection and tax payment, there were other ways of doing so, which we have described more than once. For example, you could set up a monthly tax. You could also avoid taxing businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u61	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u62	You want to simplify the lives of businesses, but at the same time you make it difficult for them and increase their costs. You may lead to wage pressures that no one wants. You reduce, in a way, the value of net tax work, while more than 50% of our citizens do not pay income tax. This is a real problem. Thanks to the amendments tabled on this subject, in particular the 250 amendments by Marc Le Fur,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u63	[[Smile]] I only dropped 90!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u64	...I'm sure we'll take a look at the question. Source sampling is a good idea, but I don't think the way you do it is appropriate. In the Committee on Finance, we have also discussed the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in social contributions. We are in favour of this, but we should have gone further. We discussed this issue with the Minister of Economy and Finance, and in particular we proposed to extend the scheme to all salaries below 3 or 3.5 SMIC – perhaps not next year, but in the following years. Perhaps you can tell us where we are going, minister. The aim is to apply the Gallois report and, above all, to focus on the competitiveness of our companies – an aspect that is particularly lacking in your amending finance bill. Finally, I would like to welcome the work done by the rapporteur-general and all of our colleagues on the residence tax: in this area, the equality between conventional accommodation and digital platforms must be restored. What is true in terms of accommodation is also true for many other aspects of our life: when two different people carry out the same activity, it is absolutely abnormal that there is double standards – double taxation and two social measures. I hope that the Government will not seek to diminish the scope of the amendments adopted by the committee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u65	Unanimous of its members!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u66	... which were drawn up by the rapporteur-general with all the members of the Committee on Finance. Don't be fry, minister, and don't miss courage on these matters! We have put in place a good working method. Apart from the more political issues that can fundamentally oppose us, I hope that we can continue to work in this way, in committee, with the rapporteur-general, on a number of other issues – in any case, we will work on them. I conclude by reiterating my doubts about 2018, which obviously remained intact. I hope that the Government will go further in its reform exercise. Growth allows it: don't ruin this opportunity, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u67	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject it in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u68	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, this amending finance bill allows us to go to the bottom of things on the issue of withholding income tax. Let's not push this debate! This is a considerable reform, which one would be wrong to imagine as being limited to tax collection alone. It is the very logic of our tax system that is upset. The examination of this draft law on amending finance is the only real opportunity to give concrete mention, in this House, of the consequences of the transition to the levy at source. I would remind you that the change in tax collection was voted at the end of the previous legislature by a final majority and government, not to say agonizing. Curiously, we briefly found this withdrawal at the source during the discussion of the enabling bill to take by order measures to strengthen social dialogue: at the time, Minister, you absolutely did not want to table any amending finance bill. Finally, we have an opportunity to address this issue! This may be the last time we can do so in this Parliament, when reform is essential, consistent, formidable for our compatriots. The debate will therefore take place during the consideration of section 9 of this draft Financial Amendment Bill. Let's have a little history. The left wanted to carry out a major tax reform that had to profoundly upset the very foundations of income tax. Among other things, the idea was to reconcile income tax with the CSG.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u69	To merge them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u70	Let us recall the names of Messrs. Ayrault, Muet and Piketty, who had made themselves the apostles of this reform, which was slyly begun with the reduction of the effects of the family quotient. However, following the electoral failures of 2014, the left had to reduce its claims and abandon this global project. A form of compromise has therefore been adopted within the Socialist Party: without a more comprehensive reform of the income tax, the arrangements for tax collection would be modified with the introduction of the levy at source. In reality, the reformers had in mind a broader reform, with the desire to break the family system we know and the prospect of an individualization of the tax as part of a reconciliation between income tax and the CSG. In France, so far, the tax is familyized: it is based on the tax home. It covers the income received by this tax household, taking into account the expenses borne by the latter. This contributing capacity is at the heart of our Constitution, since Article 13 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights states that the tax contribution must be equally distributed among all citizens "because of their faculties". The withholding tax is the Trojan horse of the end of the familyization of income tax and its merger with the CSG, despite what many people have said. According to the logic of the previous government, 2017 was to be a year of transition: the source levy was to apply from 1 January 2018. The Order of 22 September 2017 only shifted the reform by one year, under a technical pretext: the transition year becomes 2018, with the source levy to apply from 1 January 2019. In fact, it was a matter of not applying the reform of the levy at source in conjunction with the increase in the CSG that you wanted and that unfortunately the majority just voted a few minutes ago. As of January 1, 2018, the CSG will increase, along with a decrease in wage social contributions. By applying this increase in the CSG and the levy at source at the same time, you would have caused a tax shock: to avoid this, you preferred to spread the reform. Everyone will have understood that this postponement was not motivated by technical reasons, as you claimed, but by strictly tactical reasons. What could justify the source sampling? We are regularly served by arguments based on the modernity of this reform or on international comparisons. Do not make international comparisons when the nature of taxes is so different from one country to another! This method of collection could be justified if we faced difficulties in collecting tax. This is not the case, as our income tax is collected at 98.5%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u72	The source levy could also be justified if it was to simplify the lives of our compatriots. However, this is not the case either, because the monthlyization and, more recently, the pre-filled declaration have changed things: these are progress that removes the essential interest of the source levy. Ladies and gentlemen, with the levy at source, we sell illusions to the French: that of simplicity, first of all, because the tax return will remain, and that of immediacy – of "contemporaneity", as we are told. Look at things in front of you and straight away: there will be no contemporaneity, as long as the tax rate will be calculated from previous years. Worse, there will be two rates in the year: one, calculated on year N-2, which will apply from January to September, and another, calculated on year N-1, which will apply from September to December.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u73	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u74	We already see the complexity of the exercise. The taxpayer may, in theory, choose to modulate the rate – which he can already do today – but if he fails to do so, the penalties will be substantial. Nor is there any immediacy for the tax credit and deductions, which will result in a refund the following year. There are now two different times in the tax: the time of payment and the time of possible credits and deductions. Today, taxpayers pay in year N a tax calculated on the revenues of year N-1, taking into account also base reductions, tax deductions and tax credits. This will no longer be the case: you will pay immediately on the salary income received, and it is only the following year, on the basis of the tax return, that you will be able to benefit, if any, from tax reductions or tax credits. For our fellow citizens who will pay immediately and eventually be reimbursed after a year, the cost of cash will be heavy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u75	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u76	Taxpayers will make the government's cash flow. Let us take the very concrete example of a taxpayer who decides to move on to the real expenses regime – millions of our compatriots are in this case. To date, this taxpayer has declared in year N+1 the revenues of year N and deducted the corresponding kilometric charges: it is very clear and very simple, and this calculation is done simultaneously, so that, in many cases, the tax that he has to pay – which can be up to 2000, 3000 or 4000 euros – is reduced and can even disappear as a result of the application of these actual charges. From now on, this taxpayer will have to pay the tax in full and will only get the refund the following year. I let you imagine the cash flow difficulties that this will represent for many of our taxpayers. In concrete terms, what will happen on January 1, 2019? A lot of things, and more than our compatriots suppose! In the first place, they will realize, at the end of January 2019, that, all other things equal, they earn less than at the end of December 2018 and that, from month to month, the amount at the bottom right of their payroll – because that's what they're interested in – will be reduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u77	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u78	There will therefore be surprises, disappointments and questions, which, let us not deny, can lead to a decrease in consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u79	As of January 2019!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u80	As early as January or spring 2019, in fact. You will certainly tell me that, in return, taxpayers will no longer be monthly and that in some respects this will be the same in the long run – but only in the long run, because in the first few months they will not realize it and it will cause real difficulties. Consumption at the beginning of 2019 may thus be affected by this novelty. The effects on consumption will also be felt in November and December because, as you know, our monthly compatriots do not pay tax in those months, by a kind of facility that allows for a substantial consumption at the end of the year. This facility will no longer be possible, as the levy will now take place every month on the pay sheet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u81	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u82	... with very strong impacts on some Christmas consumption and on some economic sectors. On January 1, 2019, our compatriots will also discover another, more surprising thing: two people working in the same company, holding identical jobs, with the same working hours and an identical length of service, and whose payroll shows, at the bottom right, identical remunerations on these same payrolls, from January 2019 onwards, differentiated remunerations as a result of the source levy. In concrete terms, a person who, because of, for example, his spouse's income, has additional income will see the figure of his remuneration reduced accordingly, while a person who has significant family expenses will see the amount on his or her pay sheet maintained approximately. That's quite surprising.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u83	It's fairer!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u84	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] No, it's no fairer, because equal pay for equal work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u85	Mr. The Fur only has the word!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u86	It is only then that the tax has to settle things but, at the moment, it is by no means fairer. You'll take it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u87	The debate is coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u88	In any case, it is very clear: the wages on the payroll will be differentiated according to tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u90	People compare to each other, either in the canteen or in front of the coffee machine, and they will find quite surprising differences. So far, the situation was simple, because households had only one interlocutor: the tax. With the source levy now comes a third party: the company, which will collect the tax. In this way, she will be aware of the amount and the average rate of pay of the employee and deduct from the amount of the employee's salary the tax that she will pay to the State. A third party is therefore introduced into a mechanism which must be strictly confidential. Another negative consequence of the source levy is that taxpayers will no longer be able to assess their tax burden. However, it is because they can measure the level of tax that our compatriots accept or challenge it. The source levy transforms the company into an income tax collector and thus the employee will receive a net remuneration not only from social contributions and CSG, but also from income tax. It is to be feared that tomorrow he will not know the amount of income tax he will have to pay – nor does he know the amount of the CSG and social contributions. You'll tell me he can know them, but, in fact, he doesn't know them. The effect of the tax levy at source is to anesthetize the taxpayer, which will allow successive governments to increase the tax in the future, since in fact the burden will be hidden from it. Another consequence on 1 January 2019: as the Chairman of the Finance Committee has already said, the levying of tax at source will also be a very heavy burden for companies – which, I would remind you, are not plaintiffs and whose job is not to collect the tax, but which, tomorrow, will collect it and return it to the State. To assess the cost to them, you base your analysis, Minister, on a report by the General Inspectorate of Finance, which states a cost of EUR 300 million. You will tell me that this is not bad already, but I would remind you that this is a report drawn up by financial inspectors controlling colleagues and comrades who are financial inspectors working in the neighbouring office and that they will find them the next day: we are in the middle of each other. Instead, I refer you to the study – much more serious and objective, because using the resources of 500 companies – carried out for the Senate by the firm Deloitte, which estimates that the cost to companies is significantly greater: in the order of 1.2 billion euros each year. That's quite considerable. I have noted the willingness of the State to conceal the cost of this measure, but the best proof that there is a cost problem for businesses is that you are considering an amendment aimed at reducing this burden at least for SMEs. For companies, the levy at source is not just a cost, but also a risk, a legal liability. Indeed, the employer who becomes tax collector becomes at the same time custodian of tax secrecy, as a tax officer and, if he betrays this secret, he is liable to be punished with imprisonment and a fine of up to 15,000 euros. Thus, while the employer is not liable to tax, but simply collectible, it faces disproportionate penalties. Its liability may also be called into question if it fails to apply the correct rate, if it fails to meet its new reporting obligations in a timely manner, or if it fails to comply with the payment deadline or the confidentiality requirement. The possible penalties are very explicit: for a non-filing within the prescribed time limits, a fine of 10% of the deductions that should have been made or reported and 40% in the case of a non-filing within 30 days of a formal notice; for inaccuracy or omission, a fine of 5% for deductions that should have been made or reported and 40% for non-deposit within 30 days of a notice of formal notice; in the case of late payment, an increase of 5 % in unpaid deductions within the time limits, with interest on late payment. You see all the risk this poses to our companies. The risk is even greater for companies that hire CDD employees or seasonal employees because each time it will have to do the same exercise and, each time, it will be complicated. This creates difficulties. So imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the baker, the gardener or the SME in your constituency,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u91	The farmer!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u92	...or, in fact, the farmer who sacks agricultural workers, who has not asked for anything and who will assume a cost and a risk tomorrow. The previous majority spoke of a "simplification shock". You, ladies and gentlemen, speak of a "right to error" – you are starting well, since you are going to complicate the lives of our compatriots, our companies and our entrepreneurs! More serious: you will pollute the relationships within the company. Indeed, the employees will ask their boss why it is so, and the wage negotiation will take place on the figure that appears at the bottom right of the payroll, after tax: these are all difficulties caused by an unthinking reform. This reform, in fact, is not limited to an additional line on the payroll – which everyone, moreover, regularly claims to want to reduce, but which is constantly increasing. Let us not believe that, for businesses, it will be enough to apply a rate to a tax base corresponding to the wage, because it will be much more complicated. Indeed, as I have already said, the taxpayer employee will have at least two rates: one, applicable from January to September, calculated on the basis of his income for the year N–2, and the other, applicable from September to December, calculated on the income for the year N–1. However, this will be a minimum, as there will be other rates. It will be sufficient for the family situation to change because of, for example, a marriage, birth, divorce or widowhood for the company to apply a new rate. With the reform of the source levy, the taxpayer will now be required to capture potentially eight rates over the year, namely the marginal rate, which he knows, and which is that of his final instalment, the average tax rate, the rate – or, more specifically, the two rates – of the source levy, as well as the "neutral" rate, which applies to taxpayers who start up and therefore have no past to set a rate. This neutral rate applies in particular to young people and those who are returning to work – and we hope that this will be the case for many of our fellow citizens – as well as to taxpayers who, for reasons of confidentiality, do not wish to be applied the real rate, even if they are subsequently reimbursed. Our compatriots will still discover the modulated rate – because it is possible to ask for such modulation – as well as the individualised rates that the two members of the couple will be able to choose, for reasons of confidentiality, if they both work, instead of the average rate on both wages. You see the complexity of this device, which will change the nature of the relationships in the company. To date, the taxpayer has only questioned the tax authorities. Tomorrow, he will interview his company, its Director of Human Resources – HRD. This reform is also a source of inequality and injustice. Inequalities, first of all, between employees and non-employees, because they remain at the income of last year and do not know the difficulties of the levy at source – they are certainly the subject of a down payment, but it is not the same. Inequality also for the benefit of our most affluent compatriots: today, indeed, as you know to see in your ridings, when a taxpayer encounters difficulties in paying income tax, he can obtain spreads – even if it is rarer, reductions. This will no longer be possible, because payment will be systematized by the levy at source: these realistic, if not compassionate, attitudes towards our compatriots are no longer possible tomorrow. Moreover, this reform takes very little account of certain very specific wages – I am thinking in particular of home-based jobs, of which the employer is everyone. How are we gonna do this? You can imagine a gas plant: we will see what is happening when we consider the amendments. I am also thinking of the maternal assistants, paid by several families who employ them: how will these families levy the income tax of their maternal assistant? I'm talking about real life here! It's like the Christmas bonus mentioned this morning on the radio on Jean-Jacques Bourdin's show: it's life and sometimes you have to talk about it and see how it goes. Let's talk about it! Another very significant difficulty, for obvious reasons: maintenance, which results in a reduction in the taxable base for those who pay it and an increase in the taxable base for those who receive it. Who pays the levy at source? Is it the former husband who will pay for his wife? These are almost insoluble difficulties, which you are going to have to tackle, Minister – probably by multiplying the gas plants. Another major change is that the taxpayer will lose the confidentiality to which it is attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u93	It's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u94	It's very important, indeed! Today, the amount of the employee's tax is known only to the tax administration. This will no longer be the case tomorrow, since the head of the company and the human resources department will know the tax rate, which will allow them to discover, speculate, imagine other income – those of the spouse, property income, real estate income. Their knowledge will not be precise, but they will be able to get an idea of it, whereas, today, access to this information is protected, known, traced, in all tax services, where it is known which officials have been able to consult a particular file at a particular time. This will no longer be the case in a Human Resources Directorate. You can see how difficult it is. In many ways, this information will fall into the public domain. They will no longer be protected, but made available to staff and human resources management, i.e. the very department that negotiates salaries. There are formidable consequences that can be predicted. One already hears little music, during wage negotiations in individual interviews: "It's not so bad in you. The salary increase you are claiming is obviously legitimate, but is there an urgent need? Some of your colleagues are experiencing other difficulties. The risk is real. I have in mind the words of a very dynamic young executive secretary: "I love my boss, but I don't want him to know my income. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u95	What about a young assistant who would love her boss?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u96	He doesn't have to know them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u97	Let us not draw a generality from a particular case.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u98	The victims will mainly be women, especially if their spouses receive comfortable remuneration. It is they who will suffer first of all from these difficulties during the negotiations. You will tell me that those who wish to preserve this information may choose to be taxed at the neutral rate – or flat rate. The law offers the taxpayer employee the possibility of anonymizing, in a way, his tax. It is true, but imagine the suspicion that will then weigh on the employee within his company! If he asks, he wants to hide something! Above all, the mechanism provided for this flat rate is such that it is likely to be retained only by single people. For families, it would be a much higher cost. Of course, a refund would take place, but only the following year. I invite you to reflect on these difficulties, ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, the collection at source is clearly an anti-youth measure. Today, the young person who starts working in January only makes his declaration on year N in the spring of year N+1, to pay only in November of year N+1. From now on, he'll have to pay right away. Above all, it will pay on the basis of the neutral rate, since, by definition, it cannot be applied to it, for lack of precedent. This neutral rate is likely, in many cases, to be higher than the one it should actually pay, which is a real difficulty. The neutral rate will apply in the first few months of hiring. I will raise another difficulty, hitherto unknown. A scheme now allows young students to benefit from the equivalent of three months of exempt SMIC if they work to finance their studies. This benefit will become unmanageable because the employer will not know how much the young person will earn during the year. The young person will then be taxed at the flat rate, although he may not be taxable. You'll tell me we'll pay back the following year. But how can I do that? In many cases, the young student who works is still domiciled taxably with his or her parents. He's not the one who'll be reimbursed, but his parents. Imagine how difficult it will be for these families to isolate this rebate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u99	That's a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u100	That too is real life, like the Christmas bonus. On the other hand, the white year, the year of transition, is full of uncertainties. It arrives very quickly, in a few weeks, on January 1, 2018. Nevertheless, during this year, his income will have to be reported. This year will not be taxed, in fact, except for revenues deemed exceptional. We will have to debate the exceptional nature of income, on the basis of an adjective that the French will soon discover: surerogatory! A premium deemed to be superrogative will be imposed while a normal premium will not be. You can imagine in advance the difficulties this distinction will pose to companies and employees. It is not illegitimate that these exceptional incomes should be taxed, provided that they result from the decisions of the sole employee. If they result from her employer's decisions, I don't see why they would be particularly taxed. During this year of transition, we will be in full legal uncertainty. It is also time to enlighten our compatriots on some very worrying situations. I am thinking first of retirement savings. One million French people contribute to the Prefon, the PERP, the PERCO, the Madelin, and a deduction ensues. But this will not be the case in 2018, white year. No one would be in a better position to contribute, which will pose a real problem to these pension plans. I hope, Minister, that we will find a solution. The only solution would be to pay for 2019, the benefits of 2019 and the benefits of 2018. The solution that seems to be envisaged would be worse than the evil: deduct half on 2018 and half on 2019. No one will have any interest in these retirement savings plans in 2018 or 2019. The issue of retirement savings is not addressed, nor are all issues related to basic tax reductions addressed. You know pretty much how to solve the problems of tax credits, tax deductions, but not the basic reduction problems. There will also be a difficulty in the real estate sector. Let us take the concrete case of a retired farmer who rents a small house of which he owns – a landlord. This rental pays him 5000 euros a year and he plans to have work done for the same amount. What would be wise in normal year – 5000 euros in revenue, 5000 euros in work, no taxes since its income will then be zero – will no longer have any interest in 2018, since it will not be taxed on revenue for 2018. The construction sector is likely to suffer cruelly, especially since you have already imposed particularly disastrous measures on them, in addition to this levy at source – the decrease of the APLs, the new provisions on Pinel, the zero-rate loan. The only solution would be to apply the 2018 tax benefits in 2019. Let us take the example of the competitiveness and employment tax credit, the CICE, which is very comparable. The subsidy is calculated on the wage costs of subsidized companies paid in N+1. It is replaced by a decrease in expenses that applies to the current year. During the transition year, which will be 2019, the Government took the lead in paying twice – the CICE, calculated in 2018, and the decrease in expenses over 2019. Why not do for employees what you do for companies? It is true that this measure represents a cost to the State, but it would be the only solution. As we can see, there are many difficulties at all levels, ladies and gentlemen. Let us not let our fellow citizens imagine that this is a minor and technical reform, a mere simplification. On the contrary, their lives will be complicated. They will have to pay their taxes in two stages: year N and year N+1, due to possible refunds. They will no longer be there, and the legibility of the tax will be significantly reduced. Behind this reform, there is a threat to the individualisation of taxation and the removal of family taxation, but also to confidentiality, due to the levy at source. Reject the sample to the source. The transition year will be unmanageable. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject this amending finance bill, to reject the levy at source, and to spare our fellow taxpayers a grievous reform. Adopt this motion to refer, or at least the ninety amendments that I will have the privilege of defending before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u101	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject beforehand, Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u102	We are sensitive to the substantive arguments put forward by Mr. Le Fur, but we will not associate ourselves with the vote on his motion, because the debate will allow for the substance of the issues that he has rightly raised. We are, in substance, deeply concerned. But it will not have escaped you, my dear friends, that in general, centrists are divided on all subjects, apart from those relating to sanitation and water – we wonder why. This reform, Minister, is completely useless. We hate unnecessary reforms, such as the false regional reform that brought Annecy and Aurillac together within the same region. Today, the income tax instalments are paid in year N and the tax is liquidated and paid permanently in year N+1. Tomorrow, the instalments will be paid in year N, even if the plan will be different, and they will be liquidated and paid permanently in year N+1. I am prepared to bet that the advance payments will not be more faithful to the principle of contemporaneity than they are today. Mr. de Villèle, a great financier under the Restoration, meant this: the best way to make the forecasts for year N, is to base himself on year N-1 – of course, he did not use these terms. This is a reform that penalizes young people, taxpayers, businesses, and is of no use. Minister, it's too much reform. I could tell her what Oscar Wilde thought of marriage: you are proposing a reform aimed at solving problems that we would not have to face without it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u103	The next speaker is Mr Charles de Courson, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u104	Mr. Le Fur had the merit of raising many problems. Some of them are partially resolved by amendments, but there are still a few, particularly in the area of retirement savings. We will discuss this with other amendments. Our position is more open. We are not, as a matter of principle, hostile to source sampling. I had said, under the old majority, that I would be opposed to it as long as our Socialist colleagues wanted to make the levy at source the prerequisite for the merger between income tax and the CSG. Our group is fundamentally against such a reform. Fortunately, Mr. Darmanin made it very clear that the Government was completely rejecting this idea. However, the issues raised by Mr. Le Fur are real. The Government has sometimes responded, but uncertainties remain. That is no reason to give up this reform, which is not a major reform. It is simply a matter of changing the way tax is collected, which has already been implemented by all major democracies since 1850 for the first time – the United States after the great crisis in the late 1930s, Britain just after the war. We're the last of the class. Of course, other solutions were possible – those envisaged by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance were simpler. It is true that the implementation of the reform will pose many problems in the first year, but thereafter the situation will be resolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u105	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u106	Our group will support this motion, but not at all for the reasons mentioned by Mr Le Fur. He has focused his entire intervention on source sampling, which may give rise to some technical concerns, but to which we are rather in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u107	Of course, you created it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u108	In that regard, the Government would certainly be able to find the right solutions. If we intend to vote on the motion, it is for two main reasons: first, because you have little concern for simplicity – we could have put together this amending finance bill and that relating to the exceptional surtax on large companies in one text; But why make it simple when you can make it complicated? Secondly, because of the cancellations of appropriations that you are considering, which are inconsistent with your own priorities. I will take two examples. First, you cancel €212 million of funds allocated to the "Work and Employment" mission; This employment strategy will be very difficult to explain in the territories, especially as you reduce the budget of employment houses by 50% in the 2018 Finance Bill. Secondly, you are withdrawing €48 million from the "Relationship with local authorities" mission, depriving our territories of much-needed local investments. To justify this, you use the pretext of under-consumption of credits. Let me be very surprised: I am a lot of investment files in my constituency and I did not understand that the grant taps were open. The territories are therefore concerned about the appropriations that will be allocated to rural contracts or to the arrangements of the territories with positive energy for green growth – the TEPCV – for example. As you will have understood, not only do we obviously not share your choices as to how to return to budgetary balance, but we even observe internal inconsistency, and that justifies our vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u109	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u110	For our part, we will be consistent with our previous votes: as we oppose this text – I will quickly explain why – we will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. We do not share all the motivations, far from it, but we agree with the content of it on at least one point: the camouflaging in a draft finance bill a structural reform manifest and of magnitude, i.e. taxation at source. We consider this reform to be complex, unnecessary, costly, dangerous and untransparent, to the extent that republican consent to tax requires. As I said, dangerous, this text does not remedy the injustice and austerity of the finance bill, which we have denounced. As a result, it is not making any progress on the 2018 FLP. On the subject which should have been at the heart of a structural reform integrated into the PLFR after the revelations of Paradise papers, it does not change much; In any case, it is not commensurate with the scale of tax fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u111	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u112	There would probably be a lot to correct in this budget. The arguments put forward by our colleague Marc Le Fur have mainly targeted the measure to establish taxation at source, and have demonstrated some of the concrete problems that it will pose. We agree with several of the objections he raised. Apart from the fact that simplification is obviously not going to happen, it is about confidentiality and efficiency. We introduce an intermediary between the citizen and the state for tax relief, and we outsource employers, and even the human resources directorates in the companies that have them, a regal mission, which does not leave us with problems and does not seem to be a good policy. To these arguments, I add the cuts in the budget of the "Work and Employment" mission that have just been criticized by Jean-Louis Bricout: this mission does not need it, especially at a time when ordinances that promise to be devastating are being implemented. We will therefore vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u113	Mrs Nadia Hai, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u114	I understand that the motion for prior rejection is based solely on a sometimes uncertain, if not inaccurate, apprehension of the source levy by some of our colleagues. I would remind you that this PLFR is not just the implementation of the levy at source, but is intended to help us get out of the deadlocks in the initial Finance Law for 2017, which the Court of Auditors highlighted last summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u116	You will agree, in budgetary matters, that the effort of sincerity is essential,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u117	You're right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u118	... including the preservation of France's credibility at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u119	We'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u120	Be reassured: you will ensure that we deliver on our commitments in this regard. The macroeconomic context and the forecast for growth is favourable for fiscal planning. It is in these circumstances that we choose responsibility and prudence. The text is responsible because it accompanies the Government's action in the field of public policies and guarantees compulsory and priority expenditure, such as support for activities proposed in the context of the new school rhythms and the reduction of interest rates on arrears and interest on moratoria – which you called for, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the draft finance law. He is also careful, because he opts for seriousness and relevance, rather than for an attractive but misleading advertising effect. This PLFR must therefore not be rejected but, on the contrary, be voted on as it stands. We do not underestimate the effort to make, but it serves the dual ambition of sincerity and action. Let us give the debate the chance to demonstrate this to national representation. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] These are the reasons why we, the Members of the Republic on the move, will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u121	Mr Gilles Lurton, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u122	The Republicans Group will vote on Marc Le Fur's brilliantly tabled motion of rejection. Indeed, we remain convinced that the introduction of the levy at source, even deferred to January 1, 2019, is an aberration and a disastrous reform, as Marc Le Fur said. It must be acknowledged, Mrs Hai, that the collection at source is an essential article for the lives of the French within this PLFR.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u123	There are more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u124	We believe that collection at source will be a major factor in complexity, which is recognized by your own administration, minister. Under no circumstances will the adjustments that you propose to us in this PLFR solve the problems posed. The reform will, in particular, change the French tax ratio, complicate the lives of companies and lead to tensions between employers and employees. For our part, we believe that the taxpayer and the State are bound by a principle of consent to tax, by a certain civic sense that motivates the payment of tax and empowers the citizen vis-à-vis the State. In our view, the introduction of the levy at source will also lead to more complexity and an overload of work for companies, especially the smallest of them, who will not necessarily have the means to manage this novelty. In addition, your reform will destabilize relations between employers and employees,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u125	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u126	...and even those of the employees among themselves. It is finally, for us, a real inquisition in the resources of the homes. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is all these reasons that lead us to vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u127	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u128	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together to discuss the second amending finance bill for 2017. Let us go straight to the point: as drafted, this text does not stand the way. To demonstrate this, I shall elaborate on three points: firstly, the structural deficit situation and the analysis of the European Commission; Secondly, the source levy of income tax – an essential measure of this PLFR, as Marc Le Fur pointed out – and its various consequences; Third, the tax support scheme in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais mining basin alone, forgetting the other mining basins. This second PLFR of the year cannot be addressed without analysing the PLF for 2018, since, in the case of the structural balance, the link between the two is close. It is so obvious that the European Commission did not wait to warn us about budgetary control: as of 22 November 2018, the risks of non-compliance of the 2018 budget with European standards were pointed out. To boost growth, the President of the Republic wants to reduce deficits and thus the debt itself. However, in view of the introductory article of the PLFR which is before us, France is expected to close the year 2017 with a public deficit of 2.9% of GDP. Some will note that the European 3% rule is respected. But it is without a possible disagreement on accounting for Areva's financial rescue, which would weigh 0.1 percentage points more, and without Eurostat's analysis on accounting for the spread of the EUR 10 billion dividend tax repayment, which could increase the deficit-to-GDP ratio by 0.2 percentage points. Pending the verdict of the European Commission, what we must remember here is that, from all over Europe, only France and Spain, which we do not hesitate to put on the bench, reach such high levels. Is it necessary to remind you that France is the subject of an excessive deficit procedure on the part of Brussels? Why not hear the words of Mr Pierre Moscovici, European Commissioner, who said a few days ago that our room for manoeuvre was extremely weak? And how can we explain that we were walking so close to the abyss when the average of the other countries of the Union oscillates around 1.1% of the public deficit? As the European Commission itself says, there is a significant gap between the budget presented and the adjustment path required to reduce the deficit and public debt. If there was only one approach to this problem, we should adopt the structural deficit approach. Because it is from the structural deficit that we can appreciate the efforts made on the operating expenditure of the State. In order to comply with European rules, the state should make a structural effort of 0.1 percentage points of GDP. That's what's planned for 2018, you'll tell me; But, according to the European Commission, the state has not sufficiently anticipated the risks, particularly the risk of fiscal relaxation that would lead to this effort by reducing it to less than 0.4%. What are we waiting for to reduce this structural deficit when the economic situation is good? Wasn't the unglorious episode of the year 2000 enough? At the time, growth in the European Union was strong and revenues dynamic, which would have led to a reduction in government deficits. But the Jospin government, focusing on its actual deficit alone, had not anticipated a slowdown in growth and a further increase in deficits. The government deficit rate was then increased above the 3% of GDP threshold. This increase could have been weighted by a reduction in structural deficits; the budgetary balance would at least have been preserved. Today, I repeat, the economic situation is good, the growth is strong – probably 1.8% for 2017, as you said, Minister, even though, as a matter of caution, you have not anticipated what we all hope – interest rates are low and the price of the barrel remains low; But reforms and savings are not enough. In fact, you are probably afraid to undertake a faster reduction in the government deficit, due to the risk of reduced growth. However, in the face of solid growth, this slowdown would in any case be only temporary. Under these conditions, is it too much risk to take to reduce debt? I don't think so. France has too often postponed the recovery of its public finances on the grounds that the economic situation was not sufficiently favourable. The President of the Republic wishes to place France at the centre of the European game. He's right, and it's a very good augury. However, it may be necessary not to violate the Stability Pact and to comply with the European budgetary rules for a reduction of at least 0.5 percentage points of GDP per year. While I am still looking at our finance bills, I see no goal of a 0.5-point reduction. The High Council for Public Finance raises the limits of the budget, noting that the structural balance of public expenditure will be 0.2 percentage points of GDP for 2017 and only 0.1 percentage points of GDP for 2018. With a high level of structural deficit and a low reduction forecast for 2018, the same High Council warns the state as to whether the targets of expenditure control are being met – that's where it hurts. This budget programming lacks so much ambition that, even by 2022 – the date of the end of this quinquennium – the government deficit targets only 0.4 percentage points of GDP, and that is not fully achieved. In the face of this lack of ambition and a certain hypocrisy, we can only oppose such budgetary programming. Hypocrisy, however, does not stop there! The Government masks its lack of ambition by planning reforms that it does not control, and postpones the workload on businesses. As you will have understood, here I am addressing the issue of reforming the source levy provided for in section 9 of the 2017 Finance Amendment Bill – and what a problem! Our colleague Marc Le Fur has already mentioned this, but several other points deserve to be stressed. However, the measures promised have already been carried over by one year and are still so inadequate and perilous. The work is colossal – we cannot deny it – and that is precisely why it must not be done too hastily. The idea of a contemporary income tax levy could be good. However, the proposed reform is completely irrelevant. The tax system in place is particularly in France, and the source levy is not the right method. Income tax is now calculated on the basis of a large number of parameters and many variables, such as instalments and quotients. Let us make it clear that the income tax mechanism is complex and is not currently suitable for such a change. Today, we believe that this reform is inapplicable and we propose to abandon it as envisaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u130	Reform is intended as a simplification factor; In fact, it only adds complexity and difficulty. The tax administration and Bercy's services have themselves recognised this in half a word. The procedure chosen should not be neglected; because it is the entire tax consent system that is affected here. There is a guiding principle of the Republic and the confidence of the citizens in it. The cursor of the relationship between the state and citizens completely changes its position, placing itself on the enterprise which becomes, as a result, the collector of income tax. Thus, the employee will receive a net remuneration not only from social contributions, as is currently the case, but also from income tax. Source restraint makes the sampling almost invisible, non-existent. This is the problem: it is because citizens can measure the level of tax that they accept or challenge it. We see this as a worrying change in the way taxation is taken into account. The whole sector is being challenged, both in its operation and in its objectives. To ensure these new burdens, employers will become, under pressure, new actors. And what actors, when they are given a role that is absolutely not theirs! Such changes have important consequences. From the very admission of the General Inspectorate of Finance, in comparison with a large group, it will cost three times more per employee to a TPE. The cost of setting up the source levy is estimated at between EUR 103 million and EUR 137 million for all TPEs and between EUR 101 million and EUR 152 million for SMEs. This cost is all the more exorbitant for small and medium-sized enterprises since no financial compensation from the State is foreseen. It is companies that will bear the cost of the reform. I'm concerned about this situation. When tax collection is carried out by the State for the benefit of other public persons, such as local authorities or public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation, management costs are well planned and collected. Why does this not apply to the employer? If we add to all this the costs that companies will have to incur to train themselves, obtain the right software and predict the financial risks of sanctioning in case of error, we do not simplify the lives of our small and medium-sized enterprises, since we charge them certain obligations and constraints. Making companies an extension of administration is possible; But this project, as announced by the Government, is inconceivable. It completely distorts the heart of the company's object. How can we not think for a second of the impact these new obligations will have on their activity? Tax is an essential element for the proper functioning of the State and cannot be viable without proper enforcement in the recovery procedure. We must ask ourselves what we want for the state and for the company. In all respects, it seems to me that we all want a proper recovery of the tax, as well as the sustainability and profit of the company. It is to be blind not to see that these two ambitions cannot be contained in one and the same actor: one of the missions will necessarily encroach on the other. The Government is aware of this, since it has already planned to punish companies that will not properly collect income tax. They will then have to devote more time to this task of tax collection, to the detriment of those who are at the heart of their profession and to which they had originally devoted themselves. This transfer of skills is almost inevitable; because the sanctions that companies incur are agreed to until criminal repression is carried out. Although some relief has been given in the Committee on Finance by the rapporteur-general, whom we thank, the fact remains that companies are being hunted down from end to end. This ranges from the minimum fine of 250 euros, in the event of a declaratory default, to prison sentences with a fine of 15,000 euros. It is unthinkable to place such a heavy burden on businesses, and even more so on TPEs and SMEs. Such a balancing position cannot be maintained. For the self-employed, the mechanism chosen corresponds to the setting up of instalments with adjustments, once the result is known. From January to August, they will pay the instalments calculated on year n-2; and, from September to December, instalments calculated on the revenues of year n-1. This system, alas, is reminiscent of that of the RSI, whose regularizations in year n-1 or n-2 were dramatic for entrepreneurs. We must not go back to an equivalent system for artisans, traders and liberal professions or develop it for farmers. Finally, you propose, for income tax, a system similar to the old procedures applied to the RSI, which have been so criticized for the payment of social contributions. It's aberrant. And what about the relationships employers will have with their employees? Or relations between employees of the same company? Even if one would imagine that the restraint mechanism at source by the companies does not pose any technical and financial difficulties, it is in two respects the relationship within the company that the building again hurts. In a company where two employees hold the same position and receive the same gross wage, the net wage may not be the same because of the application of a different tax rate. We can be certain that this will lead to difficulties of apprehension and understanding, which will have consequences for the sustainability of business and employment. It seems to me that the labour market is already in great difficulty enough to avoid pushing a new thorn into its feet. Bercy certainly considered the possibility of applying a flat-rate neutral rate. I see this as another weakness in the mechanism that the Government wants to impose. If the intention is there, the use of this flat rate is likely to create problems and seems doomed to failure. By referring to a single person, without a dependent child, the flat rate is far from the reality of many taxpayers. The use of this rate will almost always be unfavourable to taxpayers and will be of no interest, since it is a matter of giving up the half-tax share of children. As a result, the employee is almost under an obligation to transmit personal and family information to his or her company. Clearly, the Government is not concerned about the protection of privacy or the possible impact on working life. The full knowledge of the employee's information, his or her family situation, may affect his or her career, promotion and remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u131	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u132	Even more than making the company a subsidiary of the administration, the Government tends to transform it into a true financial manager of its employees. We can all see the increasing number of measures affecting businesses. They are a living sector, subject to social and societal changes, it is true; But their dynamism is likely, by means of adjustments, to run out of breath. In this regard, let's take a look at the competitiveness and employment tax credit. By wishing to turn it into a drop in employer contributions in 2019, the Government is seeking to restore, in a sustainable way, competitiveness to enterprises. But, in fact, it is not. No measures are being taken to reduce labour costs in order to resolve the trade deficit of EUR 48.3 billion in 2016, nor are our global market share losses halved since 2000 to 3.7% in 2016. Burden relief, in return for the abolition of the CICE, which is done without novelty, concentrates only on low wages. This has little impact on the industry, which is at higher levels of pay, with more skilled jobs. The 2012 Welsh report already recommended it; If we want to support the industry in France, we must reduce the cost of labour to 3.5 SMIC. We can also make greater efforts, since Bruno Le Maire, the Minister of Economy and Finance, has voted in favour of a reduction of the costs above 2.5 SMIC for French companies wishing to export. Amendments to this effect tabled by Members of our group have been rejected in committee, although this would require more attention from the majority. But let's get back to the source. After mentioning its impact on employees and companies, I would still have a question, not least: did the Government measure the impact of a levy on employees as early as January 2019, which would result in a decrease in their purchasing power in January 2019,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u133	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u134	...on consumption? It's important! Let's continue our questions about the white year. 2018 non-exceptional revenues will not be subject to income tax. Only the exceptional revenues of 2018 will be. The draft finance bill lists non-exceptional revenues, in order to decline exceptional revenues by ricochet. How can we understand that termination benefits are exceptional income subject to tax in 2018? How can we assess whether certain premiums paid are exceptional or not and generate or not a tax? The distinction deserves to be much finer established; Otherwise, many litigations could result. As far as land income is concerned, it is a disaster for the building sector, as I have had the opportunity to say in the Committee on Finance. In the first version of the LFP for 2016, which introduced the source levy, the work carried out during the white year did not give rise to any deduction in respect of land income. Many of us had denounced this situation. A second version has been prepared to take this element into account, since maintenance works amount to 400 million euros each year. A smoothing mechanism has been adopted to allow for the deduction of 50 per cent of the work over two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u135	It's worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u136	For example, work done in 2017 is fully deductible for income tax purposes, and work done in 2018 and 2019 will only be deductible at 50%. It will take until 2020 to recover the deductibility of the work. What do you think the owners are going to do? For the least urgent work, they will wait for 2020, since if they realize these expenses in 2018 and 2019, they will not be able to deduct them in full and will therefore, in a way, see their tax increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u137	Of course! It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u138	This will have a certain effect on the construction sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u139	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u140	Mr Minister, it is imperative that we correct the shot and find a mechanism that does not break the current momentum – we will defend amendments to that effect – especially since, when the work cannot be postponed, this will result in an increase in tax for holders of land income who cannot deduct their entire work. Finally, the Government recognizes the need to support French industry, and we all agree on this point. However, he was able to recognise the right to a specific tax support scheme only in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais mining basin, by giving him the qualification, in article 13 of the 2017 PLFR, of "urban basin to be revitalized". This system is so specific that it finally appears to be personalized since the criteria which make it so strict that they do not allow municipalities from other former mining basins to benefit from it. Of course, the figures for the region are alarming: in the first quarter of 2016, the unemployment rate in the Hauts-de-Frances was 12.3% of the labour force when the unemployment rate in metropolitan France was 9.9%. The problem is therefore real, but it is not that in this region alone, and if the creation of this system is at all points legal, it would be much more relevant, fair, fair and consistent to extend it to all the territories of former mining basins. You must never reason out of clientelism! In the face of all these elements, I will formulate several questions. Why engage in a 2017 PLFR without structural reform or even coming into the 2018 PLF? Why embark on a reform of the levy at source of such magnitude for so few positive projections, when the system of compulsory levies appears much less difficult to implement?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u141	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u142	We are not prepared for this change, our tax mechanisms do not allow it and do not lend themselves to the reform that you propose; It's a real difficulty. Why, finally, did you establish a tailor-made approach for the northern mining basin by depriving the former mining basins of other territories of a comprehensive approach? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, referred to in this conclusion in the form of questions, I ask, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, that we return to committee to rework certain matters and I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this motion for referral to committee of the 2017 PLFR, which is being considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u143	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u144	Mrs Louwagie finally repeated in her own way what Mr Le Fur had already said. So his words didn't surprise us very much. Both statements are glorified by obvious errors, particularly in their reading of the IGF report, which the Chairman of the Finance Committee also mentioned in his introduction. It is precisely today that there is an over-saving of tax, estimated at 0.2% of GDP. Indeed, monthly payments affect between 55 and 60 per cent of taxpayers, and there are still 40 per cent of normally constituted people who over-save their taxes, which blocks consumption – the opposite of what you're talking about. What strikes me a lot in the arguments used by the Republicans – be it Mr. Le Fur or Mrs. Louwagie – is fear. You're afraid of everything, and in the first place of change. You are supposed to love the company, but you consider it a terrible place and that the boss is a voyeur by nature who will necessarily denounce the worker.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u145	But not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u146	Your vision of the company is terrible! The boss will necessarily look at what's going on in the employee's life...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u147	That's not what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u148	... and, as soon as he sees a whole series of administrative difficulties simplified, in particular with the right to error, he will spend an infinite amount of time examining the rates one by one. He will be disappointed because, for 90% of employees, the rate is between 0 and 10%, but for all those who remain, he will ask questions, take an interest in the employee's car to see if there is a child seat, then check if the employee declares it...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u149	This has nothing to do with what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u150	Frankly, Mrs Louwagie, Mr Le Fur, I understood that you belonged to a political family that respected the company, but obviously there have been a lot of changes! You know, Mr. Le Fur, not all the bosses are like the ones you're pointing at, and many of them are very happy to work with employees without asking them for the bottom of their privacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u151	But the bosses don't ask for anything! They don't want to take care of employees' privacy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u152	You feel that the neutral rate is not working – that's your main argument – but your vision of things is quite amazing; Fear has instilled in your functioning. You're also afraid of administration. To my astonishment, Mr. Le Fur, you are attacking an institution that has many of the highest officials in our state, the IGF. I find your words a little demagogic; Above all, Mr. Le Fur, as you denounce the self, what do you support as a counter-proposal? The parliamentary report by your Republican colleagues in the Senate! We're no longer in the self, but in the political hyper-self! What you're talking about is all the more wrong since I took care to ask the Mazars firm to accompany the reflection. This private firm, chosen by my administration's invitation to tender – which you can consult – has worked in connection with the IGF; It is at your complete disposal. To triple the seat belt, we chose to conduct an experiment before making the conclusion. The report that you have been able to read contains these three aspects: first, the work of the IGF, which has all my confidence and which, in other debates, you praise the relevance when it allows you to counteract the positions of the Government – schizophrenia which is very useful to you;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u153	The problem is the controls between friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u154	... then, experimenting with the 500 collectors, many of whom I thank, and people who were sometimes not in favour of withholding tax at source; Finally, the Mazars cabinet competition. So that's your second fear: the administration that, in the self, by definition, would advance things commanded by the Government. I would like to draw your attention to one point: the fear of change. I hear some arguments raised by Mr Bourlanges; We can talk about it. I believe I have reassured your colleague Charles de Courson that the Government has never considered merging income tax with the CSG. There are arguments against tax at source and I do not underestimate them; But those of the group The Republicans come back to say: "We must not change anything! " While, as the Chairman of the Finance Committee has said, the PLFR includes a lot of budget and tax items that affect many subjects, you can – even if it is your strictest right – table two motions and hold almost an hour on the tax at source: "Delenda is Carthago"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u155	It's an important subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mrs Louwagie also accused me – I was going to forget it, even though, in the end, we don't know exactly what she meant – of being grossly demagogue and populist by choosing the mining basin just in my area. First of all, I remind you that it is a promise of the former government, which we are trying, as always, to honour. I am very surprised and I would be very curious to know what the regional president thinks of your absolutely scandalous comments on this basin which has lost 1 million jobs in 20 years. This does not mean that there are no difficulties elsewhere in our territory, but the mining basin is only the sixth tax zone; the other five have been created before. Let me tell you, madame, that if you had read the PLFR's expectations correctly, you would not do the accusatory approximations you are making: this area already exists for 100 communes, but without territorial continuity; It is to remedy this problem that we extend it to the one hundred and fifty. So there is no demagogy there. We will have an opportunity to talk about it again, but you would have to have substantive arguments, not just a desire to block the debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u157	In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee, Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges spoke for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u158	Minister, you have a lot of talent, but I assure you that you can do better! Your answer is a little casual. I am sure that you will improve throughout the debate to become much more convincing. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] In substance, I listened with great interest to Mrs Louwagie's speech, but I would like to share with you a reflection from Huron. Without being a young Member of Parliament – because I am old – I am a recent Member of Parliament, and I am always surprised at these motions that actually consist of using the procedure to say everything you want to say. That is a little contradictory, Mrs Louwagie, because you are actually opening the debate! You say that it is necessary to refer the text back to committee, and your arguments are often very relevant; But it has already been studied in committee and the time has come to debate it, to vote and to decide. Of course, we will not vote on this motion for referral, but I am surprised that, in this house, we begin, to say the truth, by trying to demonstrate that we must not talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u159	But that's the only way we can do it, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u160	The next speaker is Mr Charles de Courson, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u161	Our group could be tempted to vote on the motion for referral back to committee, less for the reasons mentioned by Mrs Louwagie than because we learned earlier that the Government had tabled 30 amendments, some of which have not yet reached us, since our dear President is still checking whether they are admissible. That could justify a referral back to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u162	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u163	In essence, the problem of setting up the levy at source is very simple: for forty years, our income tax has been undermined by tax expenditure in every direction. So we're gonna have a huge problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u164	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u165	Mr. The Fur and Mrs Louwagie are right to raise all these issues, because we have not resolved all of them, so much so, minister. That is why, in order to bounce back on what Mr Bourlanges has said, it would be interesting for you to commit yourself to these tax expenditures; I have made you a series of proposals which will be discussed point by point. I believe that in 2019 we will have to raise the limits and accept the deductibility of the expenses of 2018 and 2019: otherwise, we will never get away with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u166	That'd be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u167	There will be anticipation effects: people may stop making a number of tax credit investments in 2018, preferring to wait six months or one year, until 2019. This can cause depression in many areas. There is also the problem of retirement savings, particularly with regard to deductions for work. Nevertheless, the debate must be initiated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u168	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u169	Minister, the reason why we are going to vote on this motion for reference is also due to these 30 amendments – and not least – tabled at the last moment. Some of them contain proposals which we had defended in committee and which the rapporteur-general had rejected – particularly in the field of transport – explaining to us that they were not being adopted and that we did not understand what we were talking about. And now the Government is tabling the same amendments three days later! The committee is a place for debate and dialogue, but if we reject our arguments for them to then be taken up by the Government, it is that the work has not been pushed to the end. It is not new that the Government is tabling amendments to the PLFR at the last minute, but this is not the right way to work. That is why we propose to refer the text back to committee to at least analyse these 30 amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u170	Mr Fabien Roussel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u171	We could have been tempted not to vote on this motion for referral back to committee, in view of the arguments put forward by Mrs Louwagie, who believes that the IEC should be extended, that we should go further and hit harder on reducing the deficit and public expenditure. Of course, we do not share these ideas or the explanations given in his speech. In fact, Mr Bourlanges, you yourself take the floor to speak about something quite different than an explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u172	Welcome to the club!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u173	So you are not in a position to criticise the motion for referral to committee! For our part, we believe that we should have taken more time to go back to certain provisions, such as the large-scale withholding tax or tax avoidance and optimisation, as well as other measures contained in the PLFR. For all these reasons, we will vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u174	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, reducing the deficit to 2.9% is not really huge and we would have liked to have done better, but you will admit that it was not obvious with the 10 billion that the invalidation of the dividend tax and the remaining 8 billion of the previous government will cost. It is already remarkable to pass below 3%, thus meeting a criterion that will allow France to regain a voice in Europe – because this is one of the objectives of this PLFR. You also blame us for not making enough structural reforms, but when should these reforms have been made? In May 2017 or in May 2012, or in May 2007, or much earlier? And what did those who were in power in 2002, in 2007, in 2012? The answer is simple: nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u176	We've allowed you to be here! It's not nothing! You could get a little recognition!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u177	Maybe we don't do much today, but at least we do something about it. As for the collection at source, employers have been doing this for a long time, especially in border areas. Above all, they engage in otherwise more complex calculations to determine the amount of contributions, for example – at random – for the Fillon reduction. If I were to explain to you the evolution of this device for ten years, we would spend the night trying to understand how it works. So companies will know how to do it, I have no concern about it. However, I would like to stop for thirty seconds at a problem that all employers are experiencing: that of garnishments. Today, most of the seizures and stoppages on wages originate from a tax dispute.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u178	Yes! She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u179	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Tomorrow, thanks to the levy at source, employees will no longer have to bear the burden and employers will no longer have to deal with procedures whose impact was far greater than that of the levy at source.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u180	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u181	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, who says the amending budget normally means correcting the budget path. It has not been our disappointment to see that these were, in fact, mere adjustments, despite the 36 amendments that you have tabled and which we are now discovering. You highlight the efforts made, but, in fact, you're just coming back below the 3% government deficit, when revenues are better than expected. While this amending budget was an opportunity for you to propose real budgetary efforts, you will not stop the increase in public expenditure, which will continue to grow by 1.9% between 2016 and 2017. There will therefore be no substantive debate on these essential issues: it is all the more regrettable that you had the opportunity to do so. But the most regrettable is the aborted debate on the establishment of the source levy. To postpone it to next year will not solve all the problems raised by my colleagues, and there are many of them. I am thinking in particular of increasing the administrative burdens of companies, to which you do not provide solutions, of the confidentiality of the employee's ancillary income, which is essential for those who want to negotiate a revalorisation of his salary? In addition to this, these famous amendments have just come. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is in order to be able to examine these substantive problems that we ask for the text to be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u182	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u183	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u184	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u185	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u186	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u187	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the matter before us today is interesting. I must admit that I am quite critical, and perhaps the most critical among the members of the MODEM and related group. But rest assured, minister, we are going to vote on the text – even if my colleagues in the group are not here at the moment, and that is why I am in the gallery.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u188	[[Smile]] I'm here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u189	Indeed, we still have a representative of our elite elements. We will, I said, vote in favour of the amending finance bill, if only because it is the practice to vote on finance laws when we are in the majority, even if we do not fully adhere to it. We are very much in favour of President Macron's action, and we intend to support him. Finally, in spite of everything, Mr.Minister, even if he calls for reservations, your text still has a fundamentally happy orientation. I am therefore not embarrassed to express the support of our group. However, I will make two observations. The first concerns the procedure. We said, when we looked at the previous Finance Amendment Bill, that we found it abusive to do so so quickly from such uncertain and imprecise elements, whereas the Government could have grouped these two texts together and thus create the conditions for a substantial review of a package to close the 2017 fiscal year. I regret that, in this case, the Government and the majority have been hasty. More so, we would probably have been more accurate in the assessment of each other's arguments. Another point of procedure concerns the amendments. I did not vote for the motion to refer it back to committee, because I did not want to block the system, but Mrs Louwagie is right in substance: more than thirty government amendments tabled at the last minute...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u190	Thirty-six!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u191	... will create at least thirty new articles which have not been examined in committee, and which we will debate in the greatest improvisation. That's not satisfactory. That's not how we do a good job. The Huron I am, moreover, overwhelmed by the way in which we work in the Committee on Finance and in this House: we do not have at all the necessary hindsight and time, nor the knowledge of the texts sufficiently upstream, to be able to carry out their examination. I think we really need to review our budgetary procedure. My second observation concerns the source sampling. It is still the strength dish of your text, and a dish that calls for resistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u192	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u193	We are not at all satisfied with the way this case is conducted. I know where you're from, Mr. Darmanin, and I guess where you're going to be. General de Gaulle said to Edgar Faure: "I know what you are, what you have been and what you will be. I am not General de Gaulle, but I would be tempted to tell you the same thing. In any case, I know what you thought of this withholding at the source and I can see that you are moving forward in this case "the arms loaded with another child", to use André Tardieu's words. Nevertheless, tax collection at source is a real poison for businesses. I do not say this driven by fear – feeling that I do not feel – but knowing that it is not for them to carry out the work of the administration, because they have neither the privileges, nor the rights, nor the hardships. And then it's an attack on young people: today, when they enter the labour market, they enjoy a grace period that allows them to negotiate their housing, to settle in life, before paying the tax. From now on, they will be struck from the outset.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u194	Exactly! It's very dangerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u195	It's a non-contributory tax. I do not understand that no one reports this tax base effect: when you pay in year N on the basis of this year's revenues and not on the basis of the revenue of year N-1, growth and inflation – for example, 2% of year N-1 plus 2% of year N – increase the tax accordingly. All this is very worrying. Finally, it is an anti-family tax that assumes either its own failure – the individual income is estimated on a basis that does not correspond to the final income – or, if it works, to abandon this central aspect of our taxation, which has contributed to the demographic rate of our country, namely the familyization of the income tax. I will not recall all the drawbacks that have been pointed out by our colleagues: we, Mr Minister, are, day after day, amendment after amendment – and many of Mr Le Fur's – to try to stop the waterways created by this unnecessary reform. Every time we approach a problem – exceptional income, tax niches, familyization – we are faced with difficulties, contradictions, consequences of the fact that the reform of your predecessors, which you assume, is based on an aporia: the idea that we can fix a priori the amount of an income tax while tax legislation requires us to fix it a posteriori on the basis of all the income benefiting from a tax home, and that it is in this case very different from the first. Two and two can't make six! Minister, you are in an adversarial situation. I know you know that. You assumed, we should get out of it alive. But, despite this tax reform, I will support your amending finance bill, because, essentially, you are following the path: the 3% of GDP limit and debt relief. But it's hard! To do this, you made us suffer! You have made the army suffer – which has led to famous events – or the companies, with this strange tax that you have been forced to institute. Thanks to the sky, you've been helped by the economic situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u196	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Thanks to Holland anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u197	Mr. Darmanin is like Bonaparte: a lucky general. I think it's good to have some. You're lucky, minister, and I'm glad. You have to support your efforts, you are on the course with respect to the obligation to respect the downward trajectory. But when we look at our obligations in European terms, we see that they are no longer those of yesterday: the 3% have ceased to be the taboo they were on the basis of the Maastricht Treaty and the Stability Pact. Since the Treaty on Governance, signed by President Sarkozy and ratified at the request of President Hollande,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u198	And rejected by the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u199	... 3% has become a simple milestone. We are on the road to an orderly restoration of public finances, knowing that the Treaty on Governance for the first time uses notions that Keynesians should approve, such as the structural deficit, and therefore calls for reflection on cycles. But it obliges you. The 3% is not a taboo: you respect them this year, but what will count, what will be expected of you, minister, is the trajectory. We want you to engage in a real policy of controlling and reducing public spending – we are concerned about this in view of the 2018 Finance Act – a policy that we understand to be consistent over the long term.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u201	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Yes, our group will vote on this amending finance bill, because you are making the effort necessary to keep up with the 3%, but you are not leaving it: we are looking forward to you with hope, even with greed, on the just efforts that you will be able to propose to the nation. In any case, the MODEM Group, even its most irreverent elements, like me, will vote for your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u202	[[Smile]] Apart from the conclusion, the rest was good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u203	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u204	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, this second amending finance bill for 2017 reminds us first of the insinuity of the original Finance Act of 2017, which leads this new government to make up for the mistakes of the previous one and makes it all the more difficult to reduce the deficit and implement reforms as the discoveries of sub-budgeting and obvious mistakes are made. My reminder is not about denouncing yesterday's officials. On the contrary, it must be a warning that a fiscal year will never again be tainted by oblivion and insinuity, with all the consequences for our citizens and our businesses. The Government's macroeconomic scenario associated with this second PLFR for 2017 remains unchanged from that of the PLF for 2018: growth forecast is maintained at 1.7% and the public deficit still expected to be 2.9% of GDP in 2017. However, it should be noted that the deficit in 2018, initially forecast at 2.6%, will finally be 2.8%. This increase is largely due to the €5 billion that the State will have to bear in the context of the 3% dividend tax litigation. As it is impossible to dissociate the two 2017 PLFRs, I wanted to reiterate to you, Minister, that the IUD group, Agir et indépendants remains convinced that bringing the burden of the cancellation of the dividend tax on the 2017 financial year alone would have allowed us not to handicap the 2018 budget and not to take the risk of missing the target of a deficit below 3% of GDP next year. In addition to this, there is a favourable economic situation which boosts the government's revenue, up €2.1 billion from the first PLFR forecast, notably thanks to VAT and ICTPE revenues – the domestic consumption tax on energy products – and to the reduction of €1.5 billion in the revenue levy for the European Union. On the other hand, public spending will have increased by 1.9 per cent in 2017. Therefore, savings efforts still need to be made, especially in the light of the current economic situation and green indicators, in order to eliminate a deficit of €74.1 billion, which is 7% more than in 2016. Minister, even if we do not always agree on the method, we will always accompany you on the road to the recovery of our public finances. Let me turn to the 2017 budget. In addition to this summer's advance decrees, you are opening up €3 billion in appropriations, including €840 million for the activity premium, €1 billion for Community clearances on agriculture, €370 million for the allowance for disabled adults, €135 million for emergency accommodation or €188 million for aided contracts. The additional costs of OPEX and Operation Sentinel will be financed by the other ministries on behalf of the national defence effort and, to compensate for these expenses, 850 million uncommitted appropriations will be cancelled. These are the only measures relating to the 2017 budget included in this text, the essence of which is to correct the initial finance law of the current year according to the consumption of credits or the necessary revenue adjustments. We regret the choice of this vehicle for the creation of new taxes that will only apply in 2018 or even 2019, even though we are at the same time in full review of the PLF for 2018. The original finance bill must remain the ultimate tool for such decisions. Sharing your willingness to make budgets sincere and give full meaning to the various budget texts, our group hopes that the next financial laws will return to their original meaning. Not being able to review all the sections of this 2017 amending finance bill, I will begin with clause 9: to the extent that you have told us, minister, that this reform did not provide for a merger of income tax with the CSG, our group is not hostile to the source levy. On the other hand, like our colleagues, we wish to alert you on a number of points which are of concern to us. First, many small business managers, like many artisans, are concerned about the costs of updating the software involved, as well as the time required to implement this new system, even though many of them consider that the nominative social declaration – the DSN – is still too complex. On the other hand, many would have preferred the levy to be made through banks. Can you explain, minister, why you chose businesses rather than banks as collectors?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u205	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u206	Do you envisage, before you endorse this sample at source, changing the DSN to really simplify it? We will also alert you, Minister, to what seems to us to be a dead end to this reform: how do we proceed with income from activity and replacement from foreign sources? The prior assessment of the same Article 9 contained in the Budget Blue states: "These complex adjustments cannot be made within the time limits which do not allow reasonable assurance to consider the introduction in 2019 of a levy at source of social levies on income from replacement activities from foreign sources. Could you tell us about this problem of the territoriality of source sampling? Finally, one of the difficulties raised by this same levy – which would be perfectly adapted to a proportional, universal and individual tax – lies in the French model of income tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u207	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u208	However, we would like to welcome the testing phase planned for the end of 2018: it will allow companies and employees to become familiar with these new data. With regard to Article 13, which establishes a specific tax support scheme in the urban basins to be reinvigorated, it contains – as is appropriate – objective criteria: for example, the mining basin in the North has 1.1 million inhabitants, the unemployment rate is 19.7%, i.e. 10 points above the national average, and 19% of the population lives below the poverty line. This is clearly a good measure, because the role of the State is to accompany the most difficult territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u209	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u210	However, in order to make aid from the state really efficient in all the territories in great economic difficulty and to avoid harmful effects on board, should we not consider recasting the other five similar schemes? Articles 21 and 22 seem contradictory to us with your desire to simplify taxation, to reduce taxes on businesses and to promote the energy transition through a proactive and incentive environmental policy. The tax introduced by Article 21 also constitutes a double penalty for oil and gas industry: while their activity will have to end in 2014, as it has just been voted on in a new reading by our assembly, it will reduce their investment margins in the context of the conversion of their activity. The allocation of the revenue from this tax to the departments does not make any more sense: since these are private industrial sites, it would be preferable to accompany them rather than tax them. As for the tax – provided for in Article 22 – on the exploration of geothermal gites, it runs counter to a policy of sustainable development which would involve the development of geothermal energy. We can only question the consistency of the Government's speech on these two articles: it seems to me that we would all have an interest – you, Minister, like us – in avoiding the creation of new low-yield taxes. Rather, let us work together to remove taxes and tax niches in order to simplify our taxation. On the other hand, we fully support Article 24, which is in the right direction by reducing by half the rate of interest on arrears due by the taxpayer and the rate of interest on moratoriums due by the State. Finally, Article 27 simplifies customs taxation. We welcome and share, Mr Minister, your willingness to fight fraud, particularly with regard to VAT. You know, however, that, because of the complexity and constraints in this area, many companies are abandoning exports to some of our European neighbours. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] We therefore count on you, Minister, as well as on the Government, to harmonize and simplify European-level approaches to support our companies in their exports.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u211	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u212	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the second amending finance bill for 2017 is, first of all, characterised by what it does not contain. Like the finance bill for 2018, it does not contain the translation of the commitments made by the President of the Republic in favour of the suburbs and our municipalities of the city's policy that so much need financial and human resources, public services of proximity, social mix and renovated housing. On the question of financial resources and State allocations in particular, while we welcomed the halting of the decline in those resources, we alerted the Government, as well as the majority, to the consequences of the stagnation of equalization. Indeed, due to the decrease in local tax exemption compensations and the integration of departmental occupational tax equalization funds – the FDTP – and the allocation of compensation for the reform of the professional tax – the DCRTP – into adjustment variables, the very small increase in equalisation will not compensate for the losses of the poorest communes. The Government and the majority have tried to persuade us to the contrary, but we are still waiting for the promised simulations that would make it possible to resolve the issue. We had tabled amendments which, thanks to a slightly greater increase in equalization, guaranteed these municipalities a positive balance and thus allowed them to respect the declarations made by the President of the Republic in Tourcoing and reiterated at the Congress of Mayors. However, these amendments were swept away by the Government and the majority. We will deposit more on these matters. From one presidential commitment to the other, Emmanuel Macron has also made housing policy and the necessary shock offer a priority of his quinquennium. However, to date, the only shock experienced by the world of social housing has been the discovery of Article 52 of the draft finance law for 2018, which provides, with all the consequences that we have denounced in recent weeks, for a reduction in personalized housing aid – APL – of 1.7 billion euros by social donors. We will therefore propose two amendments in order to produce this shock of offer, which has yet to be translated into concrete terms: the first concerns the extension of two more years – until the end of 2020 – from the exemption of real estate gains for the transfer of land to a social housing organisation, and the second would ensure, by means of an exceptional reduction on real estate gains on the transfer of land for the construction of new housing in a tense area, the implementation of the commitment of the President of the Republic. This reduction would be set at 100 per cent for social housing, 85 per cent for intermediate housing and 70 per cent for free housing, subject to densification. We have no doubt that the parliamentary majority will welcome these measures, which are part of the government's housing strategy. On housing, we will again submit counter-proposals to the famous solidarity rent reduction scheme – provided for in Article 52 of the Finance Bill for 2018 –: I am thinking in particular of the 5.5% to 10% increase of the reduced VAT rate applied to social housing. With respect to the other measures contained in this bill, section 9 recognizes the implementation of the source levy as of 2019: our group welcomes this, as it is a measure that we took the initiative at the end of the previous legislature. I agree with what has been said on this subject by Jean-Louis Bourlanges and Marc Le Fur: some transitional provisions, particularly with regard to deductible charges, could nevertheless be further improved. Our group will therefore defend an amendment adopted in the Committee on Finance aimed at preventing the deducibility of the work carried out on historic monuments from leading to a postponement of this work until 2020, even though the President of the Republic has made the preservation and valorisation of our heritage an important axis of his quinquennium. As regards local and regional authorities, we have worked in the Committee on Finance on a collective amendment on the residence tax: I thank the rapporteur-general for the work he has done on this subject, because it seems to me that we have reached a consensus in favour of the whole sector concerned. We will also propose an amendment to Article 36 which restricts the allocation of assistance from the seed fund for extracurricular activities to municipalities which have retained the four-and-a-half-day week. Indeed, some municipalities have stopped this scheme, but spending is still running in 2017, including in the fourth quarter: we will therefore propose that this seed fund should cease to operate in 2018. In addition, I will be defending in my personal capacity, together with my fellow Members from Corsica, a series of amendments relating to Corsica, and in particular to the future single community. Mr.Minister, you were indeed committed to making significant progress in the evolution of the revenues of this same community in this 2017 amending finance bill. This is not the case, and we will therefore ask you again to know under what conditions this new single community will have the means to implement its own competences. We expect the Government to use the debate to provide answers to our questions, including on housing and local and regional authorities. Minister, as I said earlier, we can only dispute the fact that 30 government amendments could have been tabled just before the opening of this sitting. Some are still under examination, so we do not yet fully know the content. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] We therefore consider that, in drawing up such an important budget text, such practices are not indicative of a harmonious functioning. For all these reasons, we will not vote on the 2017 Finance Amendment Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u213	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u214	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seemed to me earlier, when I considered the motions for prior rejection and referral to committee, that the only ultimate contradiction to the Government was the question of the levy at source. This is certainly an issue on which we are opposed to the Government, but you will see, in the light of my intervention, that this is not the only one, since we, for our part, have many other reasons to refuse this second amending finance bill for 2017 – examined very shortly after the first one, which saw us widening the state deficit of 5 billion euros that he must repay to the holders of the capital income. I shall begin, however, with a few positive points: firstly, the division by two, for the State and for individuals, of the interests of the moratoriums. If, however, one can regret that it was finally necessary to wait for the 3% tax case to react in this way, it is better late than never. We proposed the same measure, and it is obvious that we are not going to call it into question. Another interesting point, in any case, with regard to the formulation: it would appear that, thanks to various improvements in existing arrangements, the Government intends to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and optimisation. Rest assured: I will quickly mitigate this positive assessment by saying that you do not seem, Mr.Minister, to have become aware of the seriousness of tax fraud in our country, despite the fact that it was revealed in successive cases Luxleaks, Panama paper and Paradise paper. We know that the amounts in question reach, for France, between 60 billion euros and 80 billion euros, not to mention the 20 billion euros – revealed by the newspaper Le Monde in its commentary on Paradise papers – of tax optimisation more or less legal. Last point: although the Government's willingness to introduce taxation on oil exploitation and geothermal exploration seems interesting to us, we regret, again, that the means are not in line with the objective of getting out of carbon-based energy by 2040, as envisaged in the bill ending the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons that we have recently adopted on a new reading. Let us now turn to the subjects on which we strongly disagree. The first is the introduction of the income tax source levy, to which we are opposed for at least four reasons. The first is due to its complexity: it is linked to the very strong personalisation of income tax in France, as well as to the prevalence of the concept of a tax home over that of an individual, but also to the multiple challenges and additional formalities brought about by the transition year. In any event, citizens will not see their reporting obligations eased: on the contrary, they will always be required to file an annual declaration and, in addition, will be required to verify that the levies made by their employer correspond well to the euro, the amount due. The second – which is more serious – is because it is useless: indeed, why undo what works? France now has an excellent collection rate on income tax, thanks in particular to its tax administration: in year N+1, it amounts to 99.4%. In addition, with regard to pre-filled declarations, automatic monthly debits, procedures and online payment, our country is at the forefront, to the great satisfaction of almost all users. The third reason for opposing this levy at source is that we consider it dangerous to respect the confidentiality of the data of our fellow citizens. We will therefore propose to guarantee this by an amendment strengthening the penalties for the use of the same data. The levy at source represents in fact a break in the French logic regarding the confidentiality of private income: even if, perhaps, few taxpayers are aware of it today, the proposed reform may imply that they provide their employer with their family or property income. The fourth reason for our opposition to the source levy is that it is an expensive scheme, and first of all for public finances. Wherever it has been applied, it has led to an increase in the cost of collection compared to a traditional tax levy. For the administration, the costs will be heavy: it will be obliged not only to adapt its organisation as its reporting and payment software, but also to launch important awareness and information campaigns aimed at multiple audiences. For companies, too, the scheme will prove costly: they will have to bear part of the complexity associated with personalisation and tax escalation, unless one wants, in the long run, to question this progressivity – which would be good in the logic of this text. The adaptation of their organization and pay software will also be very costly for these same companies, as revealed in the Senate's information report "Receiving at Source: A Shock of Complexity" tabled in November 2016. Above all, this will entail significant management costs, which will first and foremost affect French small and medium-sized enterprises, which are strongly creating growth and jobs, but already weakened. In short, this reform is complex, unnecessary, costly, dangerous and not transparent. It will weaken the consent to tax, which is the basis of the Republican tax. Although we are looking, we do not find any advantage in this system. The only beneficiaries will be the external providers who will be responsible for its preparation and implementation, with several tens of millions of euros of hard-working contracts at the key. In addition, in the long term, this system may weaken the tax administration. The other big issue you are not taking action on is the fight against tax optimisation and fraud. In the name of European law, you are moving towards the merger regime, which modifies the conditions for access to the exemption scheme for the taxation of capital gains, in the event of a merger. Previously, companies wishing to benefit from this special scheme had to obtain ministerial approval. From now on, they will no longer need it and will only be subject to a derisory fine in case of non-declaration of accession to the special scheme. We will propose, by way of an amendment, to increase this fine, because it is the door open to ever more tax optimisation for companies, who will use this regime to escape the imposition of their capital gains in the event of a merger. I do not have time to detail all the provisions that you are making that are useless or hinder the fight against tax fraud and optimisation. None is up to the stakes – unless you consider that the existing provisions are. For example, HSBC recently received a penalty of EUR 300 million when it had just defrauded EUR 1.6 billion. This amounts to telling a bank robber that he will be taxed 20% of his loot, but that he will be able to keep the rest and continue to work quietly! I would remind you that HSBC was fined $1.9 billion in 2012 in the United States – where there is clearly less money laundering. So things are not as they should be, and that is why we will propose a number of amendments, including an amendment on the offence of inciting tax fraud and another one, which we are proposing again, because it is a necessary measure, aimed at removing Bercy's lock, a special court that allows many tax offenders to escape justice. Of course, a mission has been created on the subject – I am a part of it – but the questionnaires show that the way to deal with the problem is not the right one. With regard to the ecological imperative, we are in favour of the polluter pays principle, but if the Government's stated objective, as stated in the draft hydrocarbon law, is to get out of carbon-based energy by 2040, the process will have to be speeded up significantly if it is to be achieved. Last point: the EUR 1.5 billion set aside for the organisation of the Olympic Games. Not only do we not understand why companies and organizers of the Olympic Games would benefit from tax exemptions even before it is known whether they will make profits, but Article 33 provides a guarantee of €1.2 billion in the event that the Olympic Games do not take place or take place in a "partial" manner. We would like to know what this term means. It seems to me that if the state were to guarantee a financial loss for the Olympic Games, it would open the door to something extremely dangerous. I recall that the Olympic Games have all been in deficit for several decades. All of this leads us to say that this amending finance bill, which does not in any way improve a finance bill that we have denounced as particularly austere and unequal, contains measures that are not only technical, but are structural, and that are not in the right direction. That is why, unless our amendments are adopted, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u215	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u216	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, it is tomorrow that the European Finance Ministers will make known – finally! – the famous official blacklist of tax havens, at the same time revealing Europe's real ambition to fight tax evasion. After years of waiting, it was time for this project to materialize. In this regard, the expectations of our fellow citizens are immense – up to the indignation raised by repeated scandals. No later than last Friday, we learned that Airbnb, a digital giant but a tax dwarf, offered its customers the opportunity to benefit from a credit card in the colours of the brand; and it was not any bank card, but a card issued in Gibraltar, which allows well-informed customers to hide the revenues collected and escape the radars of the French tax authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u217	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u218	Annième fiscal string, once again brought to light by the action and courage of journalists and whistleblowers! Let me tell you about my experience this weekend. I did a search on the Internet for the words "Girban Tax Paradise". Google's first result is: Gibraltar, ideal taxation for society and individuals. Below, an announcement for the website "SFM-Offshore.com". On this site, you can order a company in two minutes. I tried the experiment, minister! I started my offshore business this weekend in two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u219	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u220	That's a good example.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u221	It stated: "All information entered in this form will be kept strictly confidential. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u222	Don't talk about it, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u223	[[Smile]] "Your transaction will be secured using SSL encryption" – wasn't it XXL?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u224	128 bits!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u225	[[Smile]] It was a start-up!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u226	So I started my business in two minutes and a few clicks. I was advised that, depending on where the profits were reported, the tax rate would be 10% or 0%. For the registration of my company, I was asked to choose between the twenty-three tax havens offered by the site: Switzerland, the Bahamas, Hong Kong, Singapore, Gibraltar, Delaware, etc. – If Europe is looking for tax havens, just visit this site! I chose Gibraltar. Then a name had to be given to the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u227	What did you choose?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u228	[[Laughs]] I chose "Ministry of Public Accounts"! [[Exclaims and laughter]] Next step: appoint a director and a senior shareholder. You are given the choice between two options: either we do it for you, but it costs more, or you do it yourself. I have therefore appointed Mr. Gérald Darmanin as Director and, as principal shareholder, holder of 51% of the company's shares,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u229	[[Smile]] Lenin?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u230	[[Same movements]] Mrs. Amélie de Montchalin. Two very respectable personalities whose journey justifies taking these responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u231	[[Smile]] We're learning beautiful things!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u232	It's a guarantee of trust! This company, together with these managers, was created in just a few clicks – at last, be assured: the process did not succeed, since I did not pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u233	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u234	Finally, you can choose a credit card with the following option: "The name of the cardholder does not appear on the card and is not recorded on the magnetic tape or on the chip. With this card, you can withdraw up to $720,000 a year and $30,000 in one transaction. This is the concrete example of a tax scandal accessible in two clicks to any French company or taxpayer! I invite you to experience it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u235	I'm doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u236	[[Smile]] Will the rapporteur-general find my company again? When are we really going to tackle this white-collar crime? Tax evasion is making holes in our public finances, and air pollution is making holes in the ozone layer. In a civilized world, it's a scandal! Mr Darmanin, you who like quotations, I have prepared one for you. Henry Morgenthau, Minister of Finance of Roosevelt,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u237	A great state banker!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u238	... said in 1937: "Taxes are the price to be paid for a civilized society. That's what I think! Just refer to Airbnb's accounting data to measure the extent of the road we still have to go. In 2016, the company reported only €5 million in turnover and paid – be careful – only €92944 for corporate tax. Such figures would be better suited to a family business than to a digital mastodon! The pattern is well-known: expenditure items are located in France, while income and profits are heavily housed in Ireland. Will Ireland be included in the list of tax havens I mentioned in the introduction? This is a democratic emergency for us. Admittedly, this amending finance bill includes some progress, particularly with section 25. However, you plan a fine of 200 euros for a taxpayer and 1500 euros for a bank or financial institution that would practice tax evasion: this is very little, especially in relation to the year of imprisonment and the 15,000 euros of fine provided for, in Article 9, on the levy at source, against any company that would violate the tax secrecy! When are we going to tackle this? You plan to extend the tasks of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, but without giving it more resources. When will you set up a brigade, a battalion, what do I say, an army of tax practitioners who will hunt down those who propose tax optimisation schemes and those who practice tax evasion? France must take its full place in this fight! [[Laughs]] You know the expression: "No arms, no chocolate! I say, "No taxes, no gifts! It is at this level that we must lead the fight! At the tax level, this draft amending finance law makes further adjustments with a view to the entry into force of the source levy, scheduled for January 1, 2019. One can only be dubious with regard to Article 9, which once again proves that this reform is a vast gas plant, which seems to be causing difficulties on Bercy's side. Above all, the measure should be accompanied by several thousand job cuts in the public service. We have fought this reform and we will fight it again in the Chamber, as this radical transformation of the tax levy is calling into question the tax itself. I will not repeat the arguments that have been developed at length by Eric Coquerel. Finally, there is in this amending finance bill a question scrutinized by the population of an entire basin of life: that of the mining basin and, more generally, of Nord-Pas-de-Calais. This is Article 13, which creates a tax exemption scheme for businesses moving into the urban basins to be boosted. To tell you the truth, my political formation is not a fan of free zones. We would prefer a national policy that would revive our industry and support small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the territory; but the measure has been announced by the previous government and is expected locally. The mining basin, of which I am one of the elected, everyone knows the past and the symbolic burden. It's urgent to act! This territory was emptied of its substance by the closure of the mines, destabilized by the crisis of the steel industry and metallurgy. For years, it has accumulated alarming indices: unemployment rates, poverty rates, etc. It has 1.2 million inhabitants, as well as the departments of the Pyrénées-Orientales, Eure-et-Loir and Dordogne combined. The population density is more than five times higher than the French average. A plan was proposed last March by the previous government; It included a number of measures, including the much-anticipated one provided for in Article 13. We have proposed to shift the jobs created in the companies concerned. Our amendment has been accepted by the committee, and I thank colleagues for that. But we expect other measures, such as the EUR 100 million planned to rehabilitate the 23000 mining housing units, the EUR 75 million allocated to the National Housing Agency, the contribution of the National Agency for Urban Renewal, amounting to EUR 150 million, to speed up the urban renewal and the announced construction of a hospital in Lens, for which the State has promised to invest EUR 280 million. [[Smile]] These are the actions that the people of the mining basin are entitled to expect from you, Minister – and I conclude on this point, Mr.President, since it is time to go to dinner.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u240	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-04-O1081.u241	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the 2017 amending finance bill. The meeting is adjourned.
