ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to State advice and control, public authorities, the direction of action of the Government, investments of the future and the annex budget relating to official publications and administrative information (No. 273, Annexes 10, 15 and 32; No. 264 corrected, Volume XII). The Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, the spokesman for the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u3	[[Smile]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for being here this Friday morning! It is my responsibility to present to you in a few words a wide range of budgetary appropriations. They have a common feature of being attached to the Prime Minister's services and of covering a fairly broad field of intervention. Some of them have a special feature: in the name of the – justified – independence of certain bodies, they cannot be negotiated or transformed. I will start with the "Investments for the Future" mission. As Benjamin Griveaux pointed out in the enlarged committee, our ambition is to make public investment a key to the transformation of the French economy. For 2018, EUR 1.08 billion of payment appropriations will be allocated on this mission in order to realize the ambition, led by the President of the Republic and implemented by the Government, of EUR 10 billion on the third investment programme for the future – PIA 3. This program responds to three priorities that are translated into three programs within the mission: supporting progress in teaching and research, valuing research and accelerating the modernization of our businesses. Education, research and its valorisation occupy a very large place in this mission: almost 6 billion euros out of a total of 10 billion euros. In addition, EUR 4 billion will be spent on equity investments in order to make economic use of the exceptional effort made for research and innovation in the previous investment programmes for the future, by better sharing risks with businesses and the prospects for profitability in the event of success. Key success factors for IAPs 1 and 2 will be continued. First of all, it is an inter-ministerial and transparent strategy: proposed by the Government, validated by Parliament, it will be adopted in consultation with the ministries concerned under the authority of the Prime Minister and under the supervision of the Supervisory Committee. Next, the selection of projects will be professional and objective. The approach to the concept of investment will be broad but rigorous. Finally, an independent and systematic impact assessment will be carried out. This third IAP will therefore be a full component of the Major Investment Plan by addressing key issues for the preparation of the future. I now turn to the missions "Control and advice of the State", "Public authorities" and "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement". With regard to the "Consultation and Control of the State" mission, appropriations are increasing by 2.1% to EUR 500 million. In the case of administrative courts, the main objective remains the control of the time limits for judgement. In view of the extremely large increase in appeals to the National Asylum Court, 51 new jobs are being created to reduce the average processing time for applications to six months. The funding for the financial courts remains stable, despite the increase in their missions, which is a testament to their contribution to the effort to control public accounts – I would like to point out. This is also the case for the Economic, Social and Environmental Council: its appropriations increase very slightly in order to promote its focus on its core business and to implement the strategic orientations of the new mandate. With regard to allocations to public authorities, I would point out that the institutions concerned – as I said at the beginning of my speech – set their own budgetary allocation, in accordance with the principle of separation of powers. Overall, these appropriations are characterised by a high level of stability compared to the previous financial year. However, an increase of €3 million in the allocation of the Presidency of the Republic is necessary in 2018 in order to address important security issues, both physical and data protection. I now turn to the mission "Direction de l'action du gouvernement". Its credits are stable in value compared to the 2017 Finance Act. However, the mission has strong priorities: security, first of all. As a result, funds for security and defence coordination are increasing by 3 per cent. Second priority: strengthening the resources allocated to the digital transformation of public administrations. As such, DINSIC – the interdepartmental Directorate of Digital and Information and Communication Systems – sees its resources increase by 15%. I would like to draw your attention to the strengthening of the capacity of DILCRAH – the growing inter-ministerial delegation to the fight against racism and anti-Semitism. The same applies to the funds for the compensation of the victims of the nuclear tests carried out in French Polynesia and in the Algerian Sahara: from EUR 4.9 million to EUR 8.9 million. These various new measures are allowed by economic measures, including, mainly, the consolidation of services in the Ségur-Fontenoy housing complex. The budget of the independent administrative authorities, whose resources have been strengthened in recent years, is increasing slightly by 2% this year, with only one job creation compared to 21 in 2017. Particular attention is paid to the needs of smaller IAAs. To close my remarks, I come to Program 333, dedicated to the real estate and the operation of our territorial services: the appropriations for this program increase by 1.4%. This increase is mainly due to transfers of appropriations linked to the continued pooling of resources on this programme, which will host in 2018 the regional services in charge of information and communication systems of the regional directorates of the ministries responsible for social affairs and sports. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to tell you about these appropriations. I thank the rapporteurs for the quality of their work and our exchanges in the enlarged committee, and I am at your disposal to continue the discussion this morning in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u4	Mr Daniel Labaronne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat" consists of four programmes: "Conseil d'Etat et autres courtes administratives", "Court of Auditors and Other Financial Courts", "High Council for Public Finance" and "Economic, Social and Environmental Council". The appropriations allocated to these four programmes amount to EUR 678 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 663 million in payment appropriations. This represents an increase of 1.03% and 2.16% respectively. This very moderate increase is in continuity with the financial laws of previous years. In a structural way, staff costs constitute the bulk of the appropriations requested: 85.3 per cent. In order to carry out my report, I had the pleasure of meeting and hearing: the Vice-President of the Council of State, the President of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council and the First President of the Court of Auditors. I have seen that the administrative and financial courts, and more recently the EESC, have managed rigorously in recent years to contain the overall evolution of resources while the activities and competences of the programmes are increasing. The Council of State programme contains the only significant increase in the Mission's employment ceiling: the vast majority of this increase is absorbed by the strengthening of the National Asylum Court. This is directly related to the Government's objective, which will shortly be reflected in the law, to reduce the time taken to investigate an asylum application to six months. This strengthening of the CNDA is a source of satisfaction to me. Beyond the evolution of its staff costs, the Council of State has to cope with a structural increase in the activity of the administrative courts due to the growth of the litigation. In the fabric of the law, we must be careful not to multiply the possible sources of litigation which then feed into the procedures which the administrative courts must then examine. We must therefore simplify the law and ensure its effectiveness. As regards the Court of Auditors, it should be noted that staff costs are contained and that the employment ceiling has been stable for several years, even though the financial courts are obliged to assume increasing tasks of certification and control. In the face of these growing tasks, we will probably have to reflect on the evolution of the Court of Auditors' employment ceiling. You are also proposing, through this finance bill, an increase of 3.3 per cent in the resources of the High Council for Public Finance program. This independent supervisory body should assess the consistency of the annual targets presented by the Government in relation to the multi-year pattern of structural balances. In this context, it seems to me important that assessments of the credibility of the objectives be informed by specific elements relating to expenditure. I therefore propose to consider the possibility, subject to an examination of the legal implications of this proposal, of expressly authorizing the High Council to give a more detailed opinion on the evolution of expenditure in the State budget. In addition, both the High Council and the Court of Auditors have a real task of assisting Parliament: it is up to us in the parliamentary assemblies to take advantage of this resource of expertise. We should reflect on the creation of a parliamentary office common to both chambers that would play a role similar to the public accounts committee available to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. Of course, evaluation bodies already exist, but our Parliament does not have an expert committee to act as a bridge with the bodies I have just mentioned, and to centralise and arbitrate the requests for studies for which these bodies can be requested. This office could, for example, contribute to the preparation of impact assessments prior to certain parliamentary amendments in the context of the discussion of the finance bill, when time permits. The core of its mission, however, should be to monitor the implementation of the budget: this would restore decisive importance to the settlement law. Finally, the programme for the Economic, Social and Environmental Council is in some continuity, both in terms of the level of appropriations and the evolution of expenditure and staff. Real efforts to rationalise the use of EESC resources have been noted in the recent period. However, questions are raised about the role of the EESC in the future. We should know in the coming months the content of the reform called for by the President of the Republic, who wishes to make this body "the crossroads of public consultations" and "a real chamber of the future" – to use his words. At the same time, I recommend making progress on the right to petition and considering the dematerialisation of the procedure for referral to the EESC by means of a citizens' petition; This would require a review of the conditions for the implementation of this procedure, as set out in the Organic Ordinance of 29 December 1958. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Ahui, the administrator of the National Assembly's services, who worked with me on this report, as well as my collaborator, Mrs Roux.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u6	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, Deputy Mr Philippe Vigier, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, Philippe Vigier, Special Rapporteur for the appropriations of the "Public authorities" mission, cannot be with us this morning. At his request, I will therefore present his analysis of the appropriations for this mission. The public authorities' mission increases by only 0.08% between 2017 and 2018. However, this quasi-stability covers quite different realities according to the powers concerned – I would remind you that this is the Presidency of the Republic, the two parliamentary assemblies and the Parliamentary Channel, the Constitutional Council and the Court of Justice of the Republic. 2017 was a three-fold election: presidential and legislative elections, and half of the Senate was renewed. As a result, the two Assemblies had planned an increase in their 2017 budget. The first was to ensure that large-scale work could only be carried out outside the ordinary or extraordinary sessions and, secondly, to meet the costs of each renewal, namely the end-of-contract allowances due to parliamentary collaborators – amplified naturally by the end of family employment – and the increase in pension costs caused by requests for liquidation of non-reelected or non-representative parliamentarians. Similarly, the Constitutional Council had established an annex budget of almost €2 million for election control operations. For these three institutions, the 2018 budget was supposed to be a return to normal, that is to say to the 2016 stretch, but this is not quite the case. Of course, with regard to the two assemblies, the request for funding has remained unchanged for five years: 518 million euros for the National Assembly and 312 million euros for the Senate, i.e. almost 84% of the Mission's appropriations. However, the projected budgets of the chambers for 2018 again include drawdowns on availabilities, at lower levels than in 2017, but for amounts that are far higher than 2016 execution. The National Assembly thus provides for a budget of 550 million euros. The use of reserves is set at almost 30 million euros, compared to 60 million for 2017 and only 1 million for 2016. Operating expenses, which account for more than 95% of the budget, are 4.8% lower than in 2017, but are 3.4% higher than in 2016. It should be noted that the 2017 budget was based, as before each legislative election, on a 50% renewal assumption. As the real renewal was 72%, a revision in July led to an increase in expenditure of around EUR 15.6 million. The first quaestor, Florian Bachelier, announced in the press "the reduction of our budget and the return of some of the savings", as well as a fundamental reform of the functioning of our assembly. This will, however, is part of a deeper movement, which does not date back to 2017 and started in 1994. Further progress has been made in previous legislatures. This requirement of transparency and efficiency of public expenditure is therefore not the prerogative of this majority, which will contribute to it like the others. The endowments to La Chaîne parlementaire - Assemblée nationale and to Public Sénat do not call for any particular comment, except that it is obvious that these two channels, sharing the same channel, are intended to merge. The additional costs of the original dissociation must be stopped. With regard to the Constitutional Council, after a year in which it exercised control over three national elections, the allocation requested in 2018 remains significantly higher than in 2016. If the development of international relations desired by President Fabius is a good thing, and if the strengthening of security by additional personnel was indispensable, it must nevertheless be agreed that the appropriations for 2018 are in breach of the economic efforts that had led to the continuous reduction of the allocation between 2009 and 2016. Finally, the appropriations for the Presidency of the Republic are increased to EUR 103 million, an increase of 3%, after having been frozen for four years to EUR 100 million. This increase is justified by the urgent need to ensure the protection of the President of the Republic and his entourage and to improve the protection of computer systems. Similarly, the President hoped that the Security Group of the Presidency of the Republic – GSPR – would have fourteen additional staff members, which seems normal in the circumstances we are experiencing. The President paid particular attention to the Elysée budget. The largest investments will be the subject of a global project in 2018. A general review of the tasks of the Presidency officials will also be carried out. In view of this analysis, and despite certain reservations, Mr Vigier gave a favourable opinion on the adoption of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u8	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor again, this time as Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the scope of my special report has expanded this year: it includes not only the appropriations for the mission "Direction de l'action du gouvernement" and the annex budget "Official publications and administrative information", but also the mission "Investments for the future". Having twice as many credits to check, I regret that my speaking time is not twice as long... The creation of the "Investments of the Future" mission dates from the 2017 Finance Act. Its very existence is an undeniable progress: the previous investment programmes for the future were not subject to parliamentary scrutiny. However, the creation of a budgetary mission is not in itself a sufficient guarantee of transparency and control. In this regard, I would like to refer to a number of points highlighted in my report. The first is the quality of the budget documents. There are 180 occurrences of the words "innovative" and "innovation" on the 43 written pages of the annual performance project, but the content of the funded actions remains excessively unclear. We are asked to vote for more than EUR 1 billion in payment appropriations, but why, and to whom? Are parliamentarians being asked to sign a blank cheque? This is then the supervisory committee. The 2010 law specifying the modalities of parliamentary information and control of IAPs provides that the Investment for the Future Supervisory Committee shall report annually to Parliament. When I asked for this balance sheet to be sent to me, I was sent a link to the Office of the Commissioner General's annual public report! Judging by the generosity with which the taxpayer's money is spent by the PIA – not to mention Business France and French Tech – it seems that strengthening control is not useless. I therefore count on our colleagues appointed on November 3rd of last year to the Supervisory Committee to give effect to this control and to ensure that the obligation to inform national representation is now respected. Finally, with regard to the evaluation, while the IAP 1 date from 2010 and the IAP 2 of 2014, at the time of the launch of the IAP 3, my budget questionnaire is answered that "the evaluation [of the expenditure of the first IAPs] is still premature and will only be relevant once the impact of the funded projects actually manifests itself". Should it be concluded that the EUR 44 billion committed to these funds have not yet had an impact on the economy? Mr Secretary of State, I have not received a precise answer on this point in an enlarged committee. Let us add to this the Grand Investment Plan defined a few days before the introduction of the finance bill in Parliament, which once again reinforces the feeling of unpreparation of this budget – an impreparation which I believe is no longer to be demonstrated: these are, at random, the absence of figures for tax measures or the fiasco of housing subsidies. In conclusion, it seems that the "budget normalization" of IAP 3 is "a parade more than a reality". And I am not saying this: I am quoting Mrs Lebec's budget opinion, which belongs to the majority group. A few words about the mission "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement", whose budget requested for 2018 amounts to almost 1.5 billion euros in payment appropriations. I welcome the establishment of the Segur-Fontenoy government centre, which I was able to assess last year's progress and which is now ready for the relocation of many entities. I regret, however, that mutualization efforts are, at times heavily, weighing on the independent authorities that have joined the site. I am thinking here of the Defender of Rights, caught between more and more missions and an imperative of downsizing. As I pointed out in the enlarged committee, I also regret that the firm's payroll credits do not fall in proportion to the downsizing, even though I have noted that the number of managers in the firm is proportionally much higher than before. This year, I chose to focus my attention on the appropriations of the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security (GSDSN), which includes, in addition to its historical branches, the National Information Systems Security Agency, the Government Communications Centre and the Interdepartmental Monitoring Group. I am aware that the Government is continuing to take charge of this; But is that enough, Secretary of State? Cyber threats are growing; They can reach everyone, as evidenced by the development of ransomware, and are no longer limited to mere economic espionage. As the date of the November 13 commemorations approaches, an attack on the information system of a hospital or on those who command the switch of trains or the control towers of an airport could cause far more casualties than the terrorist attacks we have already experienced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u10	Mrs Marie Lebec, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental transformation of our country requires economic, fiscal and social reforms, which must be amplified by massive investments in strategic sectors. This is the whole meaning of the great investment plan of EUR 57 billion presented by the Prime Minister on 25 September and of which EUR 10 billion will come from the third investment programme of the future, financed from 2018 onwards, which is the subject of this year's report by the Committee on Economic Affairs for the first time. First of all, I would like to highlight several positive developments in IAP 3 compared to its two predecessors. PIA 3 benefits from a specific mission and programmes, which are stable over time, and whose payment appropriations will now be voted on annually. The IAP must be one of the tools to enable small businesses that innovate to grow rapidly and to train high-performance, internationally competitive and job-creating mid-size enterprises. I am therefore pleased that the IAP 3 contains a regionalised component of EUR 500 million of appropriations which will enable the regions to support the development of innovative projects, anchored in the territories. This development is essential: it is the regions that are familiar with the fabric of innovative SMEs, at which the projects supported will therefore be more adapted. To date, SMEs have had a great deal of difficulty accessing IAP 1 and 2 funds due to the terms of the invitations to tender, for which major groups are more armed. From this point of view, the IAP 3 takes much more account of the case of SMEs, which is repeated in the Budget Blue on several occasions; But PIA 1 and 2 would also have to adjust, and this now. There is now a particularly effective lever for fostering innovation ecosystems in which SMEs are strongly represented: they are the poles of competitiveness. Unfortunately, we note that the labelling of certain projects by these centres does not make it easier to access the selection panels of the IAP funds, which rather favour large companies, certainly involving SMEs, but according to a logic of subcontracting rather than partnership. This is regrettable, as it discourages SMEs from seeking AIP credits: they fear being dispossessed of their intellectual property, losing their autonomy, wasting too much resources in project engineering without benefiting in return from the added value of public aid. This proves that the IAP is currently inadequate. The situation of our SMEs abroad is largely perfectable. I am therefore pleased that PIA 3 has a fund for the internationalization of companies, which will enable them to support the acquisition of subsidiaries abroad. Indeed, the IAP needs to mobilize its tools more to promote the internationalization of our companies, with the aim of making them effective ITEs. Today, only 31% of SMEs export, when it is the case of 70% of ITEs. However, the allocation of EUR 200 million remains low and will only allow some 20 operations to be committed on tickets of between EUR 3 and 20 million. The last point concerns the parliamentary evaluation of the IAP. In preparing the report, I was directly confronted with the lack of transparency in the management of the IAP, particularly with regard to the control tools to which Parliament has access. We referred to it in committee, Mr Secretary of State: the quarterly reporting sent by the Office of the Commissioner-General for Investment is in fact an accounting and financial document, without any element of evaluation of the actions or prospecting concerning the forthcoming disbursements and the reorientations of the plan. In addition, CGI's responses to the budget questionnaire sent to it were very partial, totalling 12 pages when my fellow rapporteurs had 50 to 80 pages of detail useful to their mission. It is essential that the CGI develop a culture of evaluation. It is true that the programmes in question require a long-term follow-up, but the magnitude of the sums involved does not avoid a rigorous evaluation. In conclusion, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to share some recommendations with you. Should we not significantly improve the reporting exercise to which the CGI lends itself, so that Parliament really has the means of control that the Constitution entrusts to it? How can the lack of transparency of the CGI and operators regarding the raw data and the PIA dashboards be addressed? Furthermore, it would be interesting to reorient part of the IAP towards the competitiveness poles in order to support them in their efforts to structure innovation ecosystems. Finally, it seems necessary to increase the simplification and readability of IAP calls for projects in order to reach a maximum of TPE-SME, in particular through short applications and smaller entrance tickets. However, I will give a favourable opinion on the adoption of the IAP appropriations. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I thank the Assembly's services and my colleague for working with me on the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u12	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u13	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are examining the appropriations for a fairly wide range of budgetary tasks relating to the institutions of the French Republic. With regard to the "Council and Control of the State" mission, and in particular its "Court of Auditors and Other Financial Courts" programme, I simply want to welcome the progress made in testing the certification of the accounts of local and regional authorities. That's a very good thing. The other programs do not require any particular comment. The New Left Group will vote for the adoption of the appropriations for this mission. The second mission, relating to "Public authorities", is marked on the whole by the stability of appropriations between 2017 and 2018, with the exception, however, notable and very regrettable, at a time when so much effort is being requested from the French, of the budget of the Presidency of the Republic, which increases by 3 million euros, or 3%. Given the terrorist threat, I am not questioning the need to strengthen presidential security. However, this calls for a question: why is the increase in security costs not financed internally by the reduction of other budget items? On this point, I regret that we did not have any reply in the enlarged committee. That is why I have tabled an amendment to cancel this increase in the Elysée budget. I would like to point out that the budget of the Presidency of the Republic has continuously decreased in recent years – during the previous quinquennium, but also before. President François Hollande has returned 10 million on reserves at the end of his term of office, and I would like to pay tribute to him. Also in this mission, I would like to remind you that the budget of the National Assembly for 2018 is down 5.9%. Let's hope the executor is also down from the 2017 executor. With regard to the mission "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement", the press has recently echoed a recent drift in the Government's ministerial offices. These questions were raised by our former colleague and great specialist on these subjects, whom I welcome, Mr René Dosière. We learn that the average remuneration of 232 members of the ministerial cabinets of the Philippe Government is €9186 per month, an increase of 20 per cent over the previous government. Even though I have heard your explanations, Secretary of State, they have not convinced us. You say that the number of counsellors per department has decreased and that their workload has increased, sometimes up to 40%, which I do not doubt and which I believe is unreasonable or even dangerous. This in no way justifies such an increase, while your government at the same time calls for efforts from the French. This requires a number of questions. Will the Prime Minister give instructions to his ministers to limit the increase in departmental councillors' salaries? Is he considering making regulations so that no member of cabinet is better paid than the minister for whom he or she works? This seems to me to be a measure of common sense. Finally, how can you explain the pay disparities between departmental advisors, whose differences are considerable? I will conclude my speech with the "Investments for the Future" mission. The Government is proposing a PIA 3 in 2018, which the majority calls ambitious. Let me relativize a little bit. The five-year plan of President François Hollande was 22 billion euros between 2013 and 2015 and the previous plan of the Sarkozy quinquennium was 35 billion euros between 2010 and 2012. Your plan is therefore not ambitious, it is even modest in view of the two previous plans. Finally, in the enlarged committee and at the moment, the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs criticized a so-called lack of transparency and evaluation of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Investment – CGI. I want to thank him. I know that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Finance will be sensitive to this, because whenever the Committee on Finance of our House wanted information, it obtained it, hearing as much as it needed. No criticism of this administration is, in my view, admissible. My group will vote for these appropriations, but for the "Public authorities" mission our position will be linked to the fate of our amendment on the programme of the Presidency of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u15	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party. I would like to take this brief moment to greet the fellow citizens who have come to attend our debates, especially the young students.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations allocated to the missions we are considering today suffer, like many others, from the austere logic chosen by the majority. To take you to the word, not without irony, I will propose that you make savings and cut in expenses, by putting the state to the diet, as some of you sometimes propose. The Members who regularly accuse us of wanting to ruin the country with extravagant expenses will be satisfied, since I propose that you remove some unnecessary expenditure from the state. As you know, I am a supporter of the 6th Republic and in favour of a profound overhaul of our institutions – not just a "lifting". With regard to the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", the High Council for Public Finance was established in 2012 to impose the austere gold rule, developed with experts from various banking institutions. We who defend popular sovereignty are opposed to Brussels, through various instruments, deciding in place of the states what they can or, above all, not do. We therefore propose, for the sake of savings, to stop financing this High Council: as long as we are deprived of budgetary sovereignty, we should do so at a lower cost. Another institution that is not truly effective is the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. Stretched in a report of the Court of Auditors in 2015, the third chamber of the State, officially, has until now had a rather weak activity and intellectual aura, not to say non-existent. The interest of the reports is often pointed out, as counsellors tend not to fry anyone. As a first step, we therefore propose to abolish the EUR 1.656 million allocated to the "Communication and international" action, since we honestly do not see exactly what this expenditure can correspond to. To conclude on this mission, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that each last public received by these structures is less and less for the directly useful institutions. This can be seen, for example, in the stagnation of the budget of the National Court of Asylum, an increase of 1.1%, adjusted against inflation. It is clear that the projected 12 per cent additional staff will not allow, despite the quality of the work done by the staff to be welcomed, to cope with the 30 per cent increase in the number of cases. In the midst of a migration crisis, as a result of the increasing number of conflicts, I therefore doubt the capacity of this institution to ensure decent processing times for refugees, even if, Mr Secretary of State, you are telling us the opposite. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a few savings that we are offering you with a touch of irony! The mission "Public authorities" sees the Presidency of the Republic granting an additional €3 million next year. The Elysée, despite many frightful promises and communication effects, seems to escape the budgetary constraints of the common mortals of parliamentarians. Admit that this seems questionable, especially when I hear that it is a matter of ensuring the security of the President of the Republic, who was, let us rest assured, already assured, fortunately. Unfortunately, our poorest citizens do not escape the various budgetary savings requested. My colleague Michel Larive will return earlier to a debate that we have had in committee: the use of special funds on which there would be scope for regulation. We will propose an amendment to ensure that these EUR 3 million are used for more useful actions at this difficult time, including food aid. It was always with the interest of ordinary citizens at heart that we took an interest in the mission "Direction de l'action du gouvernement". We are concerned about the fate of the 308 "Protection of Rights and Freedoms" programme, which brings together the appropriations of eleven independent administrative authorities related to the protection of rights and freedoms. The usefulness of these are no longer to be demonstrated: they are particularly important bodies, whether they are the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel – CSA –, the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, the Commission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés – CNIL – or the Defender of Rights. As it plays an increasingly important role and has often been heard with strength and relevance, I am concerned that its means of operation are being reduced. From there to believe – even though this position was criticized in committee – that his verb was too high, there is only one step. On the contrary, a positive signal should be sent by giving it more resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u17	Your speaking time is soon up, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u18	In conclusion, as you will see in the amendments that we will propose to you, we do not recognise ourselves in the majority's proposals and we will make others for you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u20	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u21	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the means allocated to justice in our country is a recurring one. As the Council of Europe has pointed out, France ranks among the last of the European countries in terms of the budget devoted to justice. In view of the austerity measures imposed on us, it is unfortunately hard to bet that this situation will not continue. That said, the EUR 2 million increase in the budget of the National Asylum Court on the exercise and creation of 51 full-time equivalents is a real good news in the context of the migration crisis in our country. Although it is far from being proportional to the 30% increase in recourse to this jurisdiction, we hope that this increase will achieve the goal of reducing the average processing time for asylum applications to six months. On programme 165 "Council of State and other administrative courts", we can only deplore the obvious lack of ambition to improve the functioning of these courts. Too often it is forgotten that, behind the long time-frame figures, there are people whose rights are being violated, particularly in terms of access to effective administrative justice. By way of example, I have expressed in committee my total incomprehension with regard to the 3% reduction in the appropriations allocated to the Administrative Court of Cayenne, even though the number of cases heard there has more than doubled over the last ten years. I hear Mr Castaner's argument that teletransmission is growing exponentially overseas, but it cannot satisfy me, especially when we know the digital divide in Guyana. Programme 126 "Economic, Social and Environmental Council" also raises real questions. Do the tasks currently assigned to the EESC justify the colossal budget which is devoted to it and which is constantly abounded at a time when every Frenchman is being asked to make ever more efforts and sacrifices? I don't believe it. The President of the Republic announced at last July's Congress his intention to reform the EESC and, in the face of the crisis of representation, the idea of a real third citizens' chamber is on its way. Why not? France would achieve a global first in the field of democracy, and this new chamber would be a formidable tool for reconciliation of citizens with the public. In any event, we no longer have the means to wait and there is an urgent need for this reform to be placed on the agenda of our debates. The 340 "High Public Finance Council" programme draws the consequences of the adoption of the European Stability Pact, which we have repeatedly denounced in the ranks of the Democratic and Republican Left. While this High Council has only a budget of €500,000, its social cost is much higher, as it is the result of a pact that locks the signatory countries in a fiscal straitjacket, leaving them no choice but to pursue austerity policies on an ongoing basis. In other words, the very existence of such a body raises serious questions in terms of respect for democratic principles and Parliament's budgetary sovereignty. With regard to the 308 programme "Protection of rights and freedoms", we regret the decrease in the appropriations allocated to the Defender of Rights, whose I wish to welcome here decision 2017-078 of 14 February 2017 in which it makes several recommendations relevant in the fields of health, education, child protection or access to public services. These are themes for which he has noted the numerous administrative shortcomings which make the principle of equal access to public rights and services in Guyana difficult, if not inoperative. On the other hand, we also regret that the High Council for Audiovisual Affairs does not benefit from any budgetary boost, even though it has to play an important and surely rethought role, at a time when racist, xenophobic and homophobic speech is freed even at prime times. On programme 129, "Coordination of government work", we ask ourselves the question of the timeliness of the 18% reduction in the appropriations allocated to the Office of the General Commissioner for Strategy and Forward-looking, which carries out a major task of independent and serious evaluation of public policies, coordinating the actions of several bodies such as the Economic Analysis Board or the High Council for the Family, Children and Age. It is also a pity to reduce the appropriations of the inter-ministerial mission to combat drugs and addictive behaviour, although we welcome the slight increase in funds dedicated to overseas initiatives, in order to enable us to better combat drug trafficking of all kinds. Mr Secretary of State, the other programmes of the missions we are looking at today do not call for specific comments on our part, except perhaps we regret, on the one hand, the loss of speed of the investment programme for the future, which can only count on EUR 10 billion in its third version, and, on the other hand, the increase of EUR 3 million in the budget of the Presidency of the Republic. This does not seem to us to be in line with the reconciliation of taxpayers with their representatives. You will have understood, Mr Secretary of State, the deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left will not be able to support you on these missions that suffer from the lack of ambition that characterizes, it must be admitted, the finance bill for 2018 as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u22	The next speaker is Mrs Amélie de Montchalin, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u23	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in my remarks I shall seek to put the expenditure we are studying today in perspective with some broad guidelines in our finance bill. The first thing to note is that the Council and the control of the State are essential to the proper implementation of our parliamentary mission of evaluation and monitoring, which is recalled in the Constitution. For both the executive and the Parliament, having with us a high public finance council, an economic analysis council, a Court of Auditors and a Council of State that is effective, well-equipped and fully integrated into our political cycle of decision-making allows us to have figures and facts. This is the condition for a genuine follow-up of our decisions and the assurance that they are legally and truly solid in the service of the French. The fact that 1% of the budget allocated to the Major Investment Plan is allocated to the evaluation of expenditure is also a very positive signal; It refers to our desire to make public spending effective, so that every euro spent is for the benefit of the French. The second axis is that of the encérisation of transparency; It is at the heart of our finance bill as a whole, and this mission finds its full part in it. Several factors contribute to this, such as the reduction of expenditure in ministerial offices and better coordination between ministries and their administrations, or the increase in the human resources of the National Court of Asylum, which brings the staff of this body up to its needs. Finally, the governance of the Office of the Commissioner General for Investment – CGI – has been completely redesigned to ensure that the IPM regains clear ministerial leadership, as the multiplication of complex mechanisms has sometimes prevented the full achievement of the objectives of the IAPs. The third angle I would like to take is the preparation of the future. With this budget, we are not just trying to manage everyday life, but to invest for tomorrow. The €57 billion dedicated to public investment in the framework of the GPI will support and complement the private investment that we want to relaunch through our tax reform and the mobilisation of financial actors. Creating complementarity between private and public investment is the best use of our collective resources. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Preparing for the future also means rethinking the missions and means of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council to enable it to devote itself fully to collective and concerted reflection in the face of the great challenges of our time: climate, vocational training, innovation or artificial intelligence. In all these areas, there is much to be done to transform technology into progress, which involves a real political reflection on the society we want to build and the links we want every citizen to have with others and with the state. We need institutions with dedicated resources – the National Agency for Information Systems Security, ANSSI, and the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, CNIL – to ensure that the data revolution never results in a collective or individual loss of freedom and prosperity. The expenditures examined today may seem administrative or technical, but they are fully in line with and consistent with our major budgetary, economic and social ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u24	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u25	Mr Julien Dive has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my Group, the Republicans and perhaps on behalf of the national representation, I would like to begin by paying tribute to those women and men who, every day, take risks in order to make their businesses live – large, small or very small – and to maintain the jobs of their employees. How many of them saw a part of their lives collapse when, at the height of the 2008 economic crisis, they had to cross the threshold of the commercial court, plunge into silence the machinery of the workshop or, as is said to be trivial, put the key under the door. I like to think that failures or falls are born rebounds; The conditions must be created or accompanied. On 22 June 2009, the then President of the Republic, Nicolas Sarkozy, announced before the Parliament in Versailles: "This crisis must be an opportunity for us to catch up with our investment delays, and even to take a lead. From there, a trans-party commission will create what is now known as the first investment programme for the future. This IAP 1 has made it possible to allocate €35 billion to many research and industrial projects, territorially structuring projects around economic ecosystems and sectors to recovery or emergence. François Hollande renewed the PIA 2 by giving it 12 billion, then launched in 2016 the PIA 3 by changing it the amount of 10 billion – this PIA 3 that we are talking about today and that you are integrating into the 57 billion of the GPI over the next five years. So between 2010 and 2016, it was €47 billion that was injected to prepare and support our companies' technological and industrial gaps, so you're holding €10 billion for the next five years. Would that not be a lack of ambition on the part of the Government? Mr Minister, your colleague Benjamin Griveaux told me in an enlarged committee that the Government was in the process of tying up the package of a fund of 10 billion for breaking innovation and industry 4.0, built from the sale of shareholdings. If this is an ad hoc fund attached to the IPM that we are currently studying, I would ask you to clarify the operational agenda and the relationship with IAP 3. I also agree with your colleague's remarks, always in committee, about the need to prepare our industry for the future or industry 4.0. I have worked nine years alongside SMEs and ETI in the construction of innovation projects, both in terms of products and production processes. I noticed the dynamics that are taking place, I witnessed the birth of those famous rebounds that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. And Industry 4.0 has already started. In fact, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the efforts of the regions in recent years to modernise our industry by encouraging it in the evolution of its park, by setting up accompanying modules to bring, for example, lean manufacturing into our factories. This is also the industry of the future, and therefore the growth and jobs of the future. But the state cannot have a dual language and betray the sustainability of our industry. The added value of the latter, its competitive advantage, is research, it is the vitality of its scientific policy, it is the investments made for so many years in training, innovation and robotics. This is what assures him of his future and the role of the State is also to protect this know-how. Now, you practice dual language: on the one hand, the Government says it supports the innovation of our companies, but on the other, it reduces the credits granted to industrial research in the mission "Research and higher education". It is difficult to grasp the logic behind these choices, difficult to understand what the Government's support for the competitiveness of our players looks like! I would therefore like to correct or at least relativize the comments that the rapporteur has just made on SMEs' access to the IAP. Dedicated calls for projects, such as the one called the "SME Initiative", have been created for this, with the CGI recommending the label of a competitiveness centre. These companies were in the position of leaders in their markets. Mr Secretary of State, the implementation of this PIA 3 seems to be still incomplete: in fact, a large part of the payment appropriations will not be opened until 2021, there remains a thick veil on the future governance of this fund and the same is true for the implementation and allocation of the appropriations of the GPI which absorbs the PIA 3. Moreover, the GPI of 57 billion euros is based on the display plan in which the maneuver consists of undressing Pierre to dress Paul since of these 57 billion, only 24 truly represent new credits. In conclusion, this plan is more and more like a clever budget pass game, and when it's blurred it's because there's a wolf! For these reasons, Members of the Republican Group will not support this proposal, as presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u27	Mrs Maud Petit, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u28	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the budget allocation for the various missions reflects a desire to modernise and rethink public action as a whole, including the services of the Prime Minister, the parliamentary chambers and the Presidency of the Republic. We welcome this sincere commitment to continue to inculcate a culture of performance in order to control public spending. The effectiveness and transparency of public action are being strengthened, and we welcome it. This effectiveness is reflected in the setting up of the Fontenoy-Ségur site, which will allow to pool the support functions of all the Prime Minister's departments and improve synergies between them. Starting at the beginning of the year, the platform will host twenty-two entities, including two state secretariats. The budget of these missions is consistent and stable with previous financial periods. While the 2018 endowments are stabilized against the initial 2017 Finance Act, the critical effort in the areas of security and intelligence services in previous years is being continued. ANSSI and the Interdepartmental Monitoring Group will see their workforce increase by about forty new jobs. We fully support this coherent strengthening of our security and intelligence capabilities. This same consistency is reflected in programme 165 of the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", ensuring the means necessary to meet the government's objective of reducing the average processing time in asylum procedures to six months. We would like to share with you our group's attention to the importance of the means given to the Office of the Commissioner General for Strategy and Forward-looking, which evaluates the effects of our public policies. Attached to the services of the Prime Minister, France Strategy coordinates a network of bodies evaluating public policies, anticipating changes in society and proposing reflections on the public policies of tomorrow. On the other hand, action 11 "Strategy and foresight" of the mission "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement" suffers a significant decrease between 2017 and 2018, from 28 million euros to 23 million euros, which is explained – but in part only – by the transfer to the Fontenoy-Ségur ensemble. Can you, Secretary of State, detail the reasons for this significant decrease in appropriations at a time when the need for our public policies to be effective is crucial? We also draw your attention to the governance of public finances and its forecasts. The establishment of the High Council for Public Finance was a founding element in the control of the assumptions underlying the financial text. The Court of Auditors' audit last June shows, however, that in the face of the multiplicity of elements to be analysed in an extremely limited time frame, the assessment of revenue and expenditure assumptions remains dependent on the information provided by the administration. Following the inspiration of the British equivalent of the HCFP and in line with the desire for the budget to be launched, is it envisaged to transfer the forecasting services to HCFP? This would allow us to have a truly independent forecasting body, necessary for the proper conduct of the autumn budget work. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Beyond these two substantive issues, the MODEM Group will vote for this sincere and transparent budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u30	Philippe Dunoyer, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the Constructives Group welcomes the effort to modernise and rationalise public action provided for in this budget, as well as the support for innovation, reinforced this year by its integration into the field of future investment. With regard to the latter, the usefulness of which is no longer to be demonstrated, it should be recalled, however, that IAP 3 was decided in 2017, but has not yet been credited. This oversight is repaired and the PIA 3 will be well funded in 2018, which is happy. However, the fact that the third IAP falls within the framework of the GPI of 57 billion euros, presented by the Prime Minister on 27 September, risks reducing the readability of the scheme. Moreover, in practice, more than 50 per cent of the IAP 3 payment appropriations will not be available until after 2021, thereby postponing their effects. Among the advances to be noted, PIA 3 will benefit from a specific and stable mission and programs over time. Payment appropriations will be voted on annually, thereby improving transparency on their deployment. To date, only €20 billion of IAP 1 and 2 appropriations have been disbursed out of an envelope of €47 billion, or about 40% of the appropriations committed in 2010 and 2014. It would be useful to consider this low consumption of credits from previous IAPs. We welcome the Government's choice to devote 10 of the 57 billion Grand Investment Plan to a cross-cutting investment target, directed towards communities, which will enable major business projects to be undertaken in 2018 and 2019. Nevertheless, Secretary of State, the future governance of the Major Investment Plan raises some questions. Will the Investment Secretariat take the place of the Office of the Commissioner General for Investment? Will each department conduct the necessary upstream and downstream assessments? Finally, will this budgetary mission continue as the IAP is now integrated into the Major Investment Plan? With regard to the "Governments" mission, its appropriations increased by only 0.08% between 2017 and 2018. The budget of the two assemblies has stabilized, as has been the case for five years: 518 million euros for the National Assembly and 312 million euros for the Senate, representing almost 84 per cent of the Mission's appropriations. Our first quaestor, Florian Bachelier, announced in the press "the reduction of our budget and the return of some of the savings", as well as a fundamental reform of the functioning of our assembly. If the Les Constructifs group supports this approach, which is part of a movement of efficiency of public spending, it recalls that it does not date from 2017 and is therefore not the prerogative of the current majority, which will contribute, as undoubtedly, all the groups of our assembly. On the other hand, if savings are necessary, there is no dispute that we are not doing them to the detriment of certain categories of elected officials, in particular ultramarine Members who sit in all our spans, and whose particular hardships are no longer to be demonstrated, at the risk of creating discrimination. Let us guard against postures that would weaken national representation. And work together on what can restore legitimate trust in our institutions. It is in this spirit, Mr. Secretary of State, that we make a proposal to you: like the contract-making that you are preparing with the communities, do you think that it would be possible, on the same model, to contract with the National Assembly and the Senate, to set targets for reducing public spending that seem necessary and that could be the concrete translation of the law of moralization of political life?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u32	That is what I call Parliament's independence!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u33	In addition, the creation of a Parliamentary Budget Office to assist parliamentarians in their work would be a good way to avoid budgetary risks and sterile debates on the costing of amendments, thereby improving the quality of Parliament's work. Subject to these few questions, the Constructive Group will vote on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u34	I call the appropriations of the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", entered in statement B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 984.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u35	In 2010, Jean-Paul Delevoye, President of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, said: "The EESC has five years to prove its usefulness. Otherwise, [...] the institution will disappear. It must be noted that the EESC is still not marked by an overflowing activity or recognised expertise. It's more like a sleeping room, if not a coma room. In 2017, the EESC published 15 opinions, as well as in 2016. We can't really talk about burn out. Everyone, even the President of the Republic, in July, agrees to put an end to this gabegie and insult of the use of public funds. Rather than abolishing the EESC, which, in the rule of law, would be unconstitutional, we propose to abolish its most incomprehensible budgetary appropriations, those of the communication and international action, which represent EUR 1.656 million. We want to use these funds for a much more concrete and important cause, by creating a 2015 Accessibility Law Enforcement Assistance Fund for Persons with Disabilities and Older Persons. In 2015, the Dutch government postponed its entry into force. We believe that the urgency of accessibility is more important than the EESC's pseudo-expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u36	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u37	The purpose of this amendment is to finance accessibility measures in administrative courts, by transferring EUR 1.656 million corresponding to the EESC's communication expenditure from programme 126 to programme 165, as this amount would be excessive from the point of view of the authors of the amendment. However, these expenses are used precisely to enhance the Council's work. They therefore participate in the influence of organised civil society in the public debate and in the definition of State policies. Moreover, the appropriations allocated to this action represent only 4 % of the total budgetary resources of programme 126. The review of the resources allocated to the Council can only be carried out in the light of the reforms proposed by the President of the Republic with regard to its composition and powers, on which Parliament will have to decide. In addition, unless I am mistaken, Program 165 did not express any specific needs to implement accessibility measures in administrative jurisdictions. I shall therefore issue a personal opinion against this amendment, which the Committee on Finance has not considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u38	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u39	Without wishing to argue, I find that the comments made on the EESC's work are slightly excessive. I have no doubt, Mr Larive, that you will share this with the 18 members of the CGT and the 14 members of the CGT-FO of the Council, whose reference I systematically appreciate the quality of the work. If you are right to say that this work may not be listened to enough and that the EESC's reports do not inspire the Government or the national representation enough, speaking of a "sleep chamber" or "gabegie" seems to me slightly excessive. There is a need for resources for the EESC, which manages the money at its disposal rather well. The only increase in its budget is the requalification from the top, i.e. the hiring of Category A executives, to strengthen its reporting capacity, which must do most of its work. On the other hand, the entire investment programme of this house is now financed in equity funds, in particular by the setting up or renting of this exceptional site, thanks to the willingness of its successive presidents, reinforced by the current president, to give the institution the means to invest. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, if we are against this amendment, which would affect the proper functioning of the EESC, we do not want to suggest that we would not support the accessibility of people with disabilities, a matter on which we are all involved. The appropriations mentioned – EUR 1.65 million – must also be reported to the EUR 11.3 billion of the "Disability and dependency" programme, an amount which has increased by EUR 700 million in the draft finance law for 2018, which the group France could not have voted for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u40	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 983.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u41	In 2012, the former President of the Republic François Hollande and the majority of the time, in which you participated, Mr Secretary of State, had agreed to ratify the European Treaty prepared by Mrs Merkel and Mr Sarkozy a few months earlier. This episode, in our view, was not very glorious because, during his campaign, François Hollande had committed himself to renegotiating a text that limits the budgetary sovereignty of states to the benefit of European bodies. Since France was subject to the rules of this Treaty, the High Council for Public Finance has been set up to verify that the country's budgetary guidelines are in line with European financial directives. As far as we are concerned – you know our consistency, Mr Secretary of State – we have not changed our mind: it is not for the European Commission to decide in place of the French people and their representatives. Nor is it the High Council for Public Finance to intervene in the decisions of the elected representatives of the nation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This amendment is therefore intended to abolish the appropriations allocated to this body which, in our view, is not appropriate and, why not, to allocate them to the safeguarding of jobs, for example those of the GM&amp;S plant in La Souterraine.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u42	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u43	The purpose of this amendment is to strengthen the appropriations for the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, in order to enable it to raise funds for the protection of employment and thus to assist the employees of GM&amp;S. To this end, its authors propose to transfer €467,000 from the 340 "High Public Finance Council" programme to programme 126. The end, even laudable, does not justify all the means, and I will use two reasons to convince you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject this amendment. First, the proposed transfer would deprive the High Council for Public Finance of its resources. However, I do not think that the tasks it carries out – informing Parliament and the Government about the development of public finances – are in essence anti-social, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum. The High Council gives only opinions which it is for the public authorities to follow, or not. As I recall, Parliament remains sovereign in this matter. Secondly, I do not believe that the function of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council is to carry out the functions of a restructuring fund or business aid fund. Therefore, Mr Corbière, I interpret your amendment as a way of drawing our attention to a difficult situation. The Finance Committee has not considered this amendment. In my personal capacity, I invite you to withdraw it, otherwise I will ask the House to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u44	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u45	Mr Corbière, I recognise the consistency of your approach: your request is legitimate, as long as you challenge the Community origin of this institution and the organic law that translates it. The Government would, however, be unfavourable because it did not dispute the importance of the evaluation and information work carried out by the High Council for Public Finance on the quality of the budget. This work is all the more important as it allows parliamentarians to take this opinion to have additional expertise on the Government's budget proposals. Moreover, the independence of the High Council has never been called into question. I remember, as you recalled, having been a Member of Parliament in a majority who trembled while awaiting the opinion of this institution. The current majority also waited with some concern, as it could serve as an argument to those who challenged the Government's budgetary choices. Considering that the High Council guarantees an additional assessment of the quality of the budget, we believe it is necessary to maintain its resources. This does not detract from the logic of your approach, Mr. Corbière. For its part, the Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u46	I call the appropriations of the mission "Public authorities", listed in state B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 562.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u47	In the new world we know, Parliament is weakened, because we insist on cutting the budget, but at the same time, on the side of Jupiter and Elysée, we do not apply the rules that we want to impose elsewhere in the Republic. While the budget of the Presidency of the Republic had remained stable from 2015 to 2017, surprisingly, the draft budget for 2018 plans to increase it by 3 million euros. It is therefore clear that we want to strengthen the power of the President of the Republic and the means at his disposal, and to weaken Parliament. The aim of this amendment is to ensure – that is the least – that the budget for the Elysée does not increase. In an exemplary Republic, it would be desirable for the Presidency of the Republic to set an example.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u48	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u49	To make things clear, I would like to remind you that I am speaking here on behalf of Philippe Vigier. The 3% increase in the budget of the Presidency of the Republic is mainly due to the increase in security appropriations. Philippe Vigier recalled this in his intervention in committee: the staff of the security group of the Presidency of the Republic – GSPR – increase by fourteen full-time equivalents, which must be taken into account, and, in accordance with the conclusions of the audit of the National Agency for Information Systems Security, the staff of the telecommunications and information technology service – the TSI – were strengthened in the second half of 2017, with full effect planned for 2018, and the information system's security arrangements are still to be deployed next year. All this explains the 3% increase. In addition, it is irrelevant to propose an increase in the appropriations of the National Assembly, the Senate and the Constitutional Council, as proposed by the authors of the amendment, as these institutions themselves define their needs and instead move towards a reduction in their demands. More specifically, with regard to the EUR 2 million reduction in the budget of the Constitutional Council, it is purely cyclical. The additional allocation voted last year was intended to deal with a year in which three elections were held. This brings us closer to the level of appropriations recorded for 2016 – they are even on the rise compared to that year. For all these reasons, Philippe Vigier gave an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u50	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u51	The Government's opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u52	What a surprise, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u53	Mr President, you say that you are surprised, but that is a shame because if you had read the reports produced by your colleagues...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u54	But I read them, it's outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u55	Please, avoid the big words!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u56	I'm holding them! A little respect for the national representation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Respect for national representation is what I have shown by listening carefully to you, contrary to what you are doing. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Looking for a little political polemic is not up to what you represent, Mr. Member. Can I speak without being interrupted by the two representatives of the Republican Group present this morning?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u58	We'll interrupt you if we intend to!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u59	You are only two but, obviously, you want to be heard on this subject of little political controversy which is very useless.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u60	For the sake of the serenity of our debates, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u61	We are talking about the security of the Presidency of the Republic: the GSPR saw its staff increase from eighty-nine people three years ago to sixty-three people today. And it can be considered that the security of the Presidency of the Republic, regardless of the President, does not justify making little political controversy. Our aim is not to return to the beginning of the previous quinquennium, to re-establish the means available to President Hollande for his security, in a context which, I think you will recognize, was a little different, but to advance the GSPR staff from fourteen to seventy-seven, as well as to provide the means necessary for the security of our information systems. Indeed, the French Republic, whether we like its President or not, needs to be defended. And ensuring the security, both computer and physical, of the President of the Republic should be everyone's honor. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In addition, honourable Member, when you say that, as a corollary, there would be the will to weaken the powers of Parliament, I have known you more fine lawyer: you know very well that the Government cannot diminish the ability to operate and the financial resources of Parliament. You link the increase in the Elysée's security budget with the National Assembly's desire to change its own spending while both are absolutely uncorrelated. Letting him think would be minimally an error of law, which I do not imagine on your part, and, in any case, a bad controversy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u62	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u63	I thank you, Secretary of State, for these explanations, although unfortunately they are not convincing. I would like to return to one point: you challenged me by claiming that I would not have read the reports. I have obviously read them and I am fully aware that the issue of security is an important issue for the Elysée, far from me and the other co-signatories of this amendment, the idea of wanting to question the security of the President of the Republic. That is not what this is about. But in an exemplary republic, at the time a number of sacrifices are being asked of our fellow citizens, which is also important sacrifices, as you know, since the middle classes and pensioners will feel it going through with an increase in CSG, it is not very reasonable to increase in parallel the Elysée budget on the pretext of increasing security.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u64	That's no excuse!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u65	You know that we can increase the security budget perfectly while imposing a minimum of savings rules. I would remind you that this has already been decided on some years. I note that the Presidency of the present Republic is not moving in this direction. You are absolutely right to recall that there is a legal separation between Parliament and the executive, and the economies undertaken by the National Assembly that you have mentioned are a good thing at a time when we are also imposing them on our fellow citizens; It would therefore be desirable for the Elysée to have a plan of savings, on posts other than security of course. This is where I find you, Mr. Secretary of State, particularly light on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u66	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u67	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1000.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u68	It is a continuation of the previous amendment. I said this in the opening discussion: the New Left Group obviously supports the increase in the appropriations dedicated to the security of the President and the Palace of the Republic, no problem on this, but the increase of 3% could have been supported by internal redeployment. I say it without any polemic mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u69	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u70	Still in a spirit of fidelity to Philippe Vigier's vision, I note that we must distinguish, in these 3 million additional credits, the part dedicated to the fourteen full-time equivalents from that dedicated to the improvement of computer systems. Philippe Vigier stressed in his report that all this seemed to him to be both coherent and logical, he did not denounce this increase in resources. At the same time, reassigning half of these appropriations to the National Assembly and the other half to the Senate would really not be in the spirit of the moment, since both chambers want to save money to apply better management rules. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u71	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u72	I will not go back to the committee's argument, I just note that it is awkward to propose a reduction in a budget to increase its budget. I don't think this message is the best one to pass on. That is why the Government is against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u73	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 598.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u74	This is a back-up amendment because the issue I raised in my previous amendment deserves special attention. We are of course fully aware that the subjects of physical security and computer security are essential, but we do not have any information to suggest that the Presidency of the Republic would also achieve savings. That is what we are waiting for. We can see that there are double standards. The executive branch, the first President of the Republic, does not set an example. It would still be an extremely strong signal. Besides, Mr. Secretary of State, I have not heard you on this subject. What is the signal that the President of the Republic intends to send to our fellow citizens to show that it applies to himself and to the organization for which he has direct responsibility, namely the Elysée Palace, the important efforts that he will ask them in the years to come? On this point, we have no answer. We propose to redeploy these 3 million to the Constitutional Council, because it will not have escaped you that it has more and more tasks to fulfil – increasing priority issues of constitutionality leads to an increasingly important activity. We must be committed to the independence of the Constitutional Council. It is also symbolically a way of showing him that national representation gives him all the attention he is entitled to expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u75	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u76	I note that there must be a shell in the summary statement of the amendment since it is proposed to withdraw 3 million from the 501 programme and to credit 32 million to the 531 programme! More seriously, during the hearing of the Chief of Staff of the Presidency of the Republic, Philippe Vigier was informed that in the course of 2018 there would be an overall review of the missions assigned to security staff. So you will certainly have answers to your questions in the coming months, Mr. Hetzel. Moreover, the appropriations allocated to the Constitutional Council are already on the increase compared to 2016, following President Fabius' desire to open this institution to the international community – a choice that we can question – and, in any case, we are not in a period of increase in appropriations without real justification. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u77	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u78	I would first like to illustrate, Mr Hetzel, the desire for savings from the Elysée. For example, for the expenditure related to CETE aircraft – the training, transport and calibration squadron – made available to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and a few ministers, a decrease of 11 per cent is proposed, which is significant, by limiting the use of the presidential aircraft, the A330, by abolishing the systematic accompaniment of a rescue aircraft, by regulating delegations' travel and the level of services more closely, and by using air ticketing more regularly rather than private aircraft. I would also like to point out that the Presidency of the previous Republic had chosen the procedure for the budgetary and accounting regulation and to present the implementation of its budget on the site "elyse.fr", an excellent initiative which should be maintained so that not only the parliamentarians who, in any case, have access to this information – René Dosière must remember – but also all French people can see what the budgetary implementation is in this area. I think it is necessary to report, including on the Elysée's operating budget. At the same time, we can demand the strengthening of the necessary security measures and the transparency that our citizens are entitled to expect. As far as the Constitutional Council is concerned, its budget is in fact stable, and even slightly increasing, if the sum of EUR 1.9 million is reduced, corresponding to the expenditure associated with the exceptional mobilisation of the Council in this year's presidential and legislative elections. Next year, unless surprised, there should be no election, particularly involving this institution. But the Government is, of course, vigilant – even if the principle of separation of powers also applies to budget-making – that the Constitutional Council has all the means it needs for its proper functioning and for guaranteeing its essential mission for our republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u79	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u80	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification. I note the information you have provided us, with regard to the operational savings of the Presidency of the Republic and of the Government. However, you will note, like me, that they are not included in the budget blue. If that were the case, we could have built a staggering budget for the Elysée, and that is not what has been done. I therefore maintain the position that we have defended and, of course, more than ever, this amendment because things are extremely clear: at a time when the French are being asked for efforts, the Elysée budget is increasing by 3%. It deserves to be noted It is all the more paradoxical to note that what you say to the bench is not reflected in the budget blue, which could even, but I do not imagine for a moment, make it think of budgetary insinuity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u81	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 971.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u82	This amendment is in the same spirit as those just defended. Austerity in 2018 is neither for the rich nor for the President of the Republic. While Emmanuel Macron put Parliament on a diet, he generously granted himself a €3 million increase on his own budget. He says it's to strengthen his security, including act. However, if there is a threat to the institutions in general – you have been, Mr. Secretary of State, one of the first concerned – then the other representatives of the people must also see their budget increase. Just as in 2010 President Nicolas Sarkozy had increased himself, without glaring, to buy a presidential plane, Emmanuel Macron probably anticipates expenses of a sumptuous type. We therefore denounce the fact that the President of the Republic can use himself in the caisse as he pursues a brutal austere policy on the whole state budget,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u83	That's an insult!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u84	...which policy will hit French society hard. We therefore propose to take these EUR 3 million and transfer them to the budget of the National Assembly, which would commit itself to making a humanitarian donation of the same amount to food aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u85	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u86	On this 3% increase in the appropriations allocated to the Presidency of the Republic, everything has already been said: I will therefore not repeat the same things. On the other hand, although the National Assembly's budget has indeed been renewed in the same way since 2012, the amount of its resources and expenditure varies each year. Indeed, dear colleague, the National Assembly can make use of funds from its availability fund. This is important and makes it possible to finance the major works that the previous majorities have undertaken. Although generous, the idea of channelling food aid funds through the National Assembly accounts does not appear to be operational. I would point out that there are now simpler, more efficient and more legible budgetary means dedicated to this type of allocation. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u87	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u88	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It is always the same, but I do not want to leave unanswered this verbiage which is at the limit of insult for our institutions, and in particular for the Presidency of the Republic. You say, Madam Member, that Emmanuel Macron "put Parliament on the diet." Give me a number, an indicator, a proof to support this statement: chiche! The floor is open in this Chamber. I've been in your place for five years and every time I've tried to say something, it's because I thought I could prove it. I challenge you to be able to do it today. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] In the same spirit, you spoke of sumptuous spending when I spoke to you about women and men who, on a daily basis, take risks to protect the Presidency of the Republic: I am talking about the GSPR. Is that what you call sumptuous expenses? I leave you responsible for your remarks. You have finally used the words "use in the caisse": they are not worthy of this House. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I am therefore, if only for the reasons I have just mentioned, against this amendment. In any case, when, moreover, your proposal is to transfer these appropriations to the National Assembly, it seems to me very clumsy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u89	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u90	I hear perfectly all the explanations given by the Secretary of State, but all this has a surreal side. Mr Secretary of State, no one today could challenge the urgent need to ensure the full protection of the President of the Republic: I do not think that the colleagues who sit side by side in the Chamber would afford such lightness. However, the real question is what signal we want to send to our fellow citizens. I said earlier, in the course of my speech, that there cannot be a cure of austerity with variable geometry, i.e. that the majority of French people are asked to tighten their belts on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is felt that other entities are somewhat comfortable with the institutions and, above all, with the taxpayer's money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u92	Again, I do not intend at all to question the fact that it is necessary to ensure the security of the President of the Republic, since this is the club argument used this morning to explain the increase in appropriations. Having said that, I would like to refer to an event that took place not very long ago in Guyana, during the visit of the President of the Republic who made the bet to go wander in hot areas of Cayenne and Matoury. I then felt that he was putting his life at risk and that the maximum safety necessary for his protection was not guaranteed. It would therefore be interesting for us to send a correct and consistent signal to the public that we are actually making decisions here, but that we are making sure that the actions we are taking on the ground are in full coherence with those decisions. We would have to get out of this somewhat surrealist debate – I myself find it difficult to understand it – in order to give reasons for satisfaction, in particular to colleagues who ask substantive questions that deserve substantive answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u93	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u94	I would like to clarify to our colleague that, before being questioned by the majority, the parliamentary reserve had been decided by ninety-eight Members to the Secours populaire, the Secours catholic, the Restos du coeur, that is to say, to all these associations that contribute to helping our fellow citizens. Perhaps you were one of those parliamentarians, Mr Castaner! In 2015, as there was still a reserve balance, we decided to allocate, in addition to the sums allocated individually by all the deputies of the time, 200000 euros, including 50000 euros to the Restos du coeur and 50000 euros to the Secours populaire. This shows that all the deputies of the time were committed to making the best possible use of the funds allocated to the National Assembly and that, in cases of emergency and demand from food banks, the National Assembly responded present. It will no longer be able to do so, as this amendment gives me the opportunity to clarify. Indeed, the Government and its majority have decided to abolish this parliamentary reservation. The Assembly will no longer be able to give a small boost at the right time. You will tell me that this may not be part of the role of parliamentarians, who are here to vote the law, which I hear. I simply note that this money that went to the associations – Secours populaire, Secours catholique, Restos du coeur and others – has been removed. And there is nothing to replace it, even though an allocation has been voted for cultural and sports associations. Mr Secretary of State, although it is for good reasons, it is still a bit awkward to increase the Elysée's budget by EUR 3 million, while at the same time all that would allow for some support is removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u95	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u96	I am not saying that I agree with this amendment, but I wanted to make that point because I believe that you were a member of Members who, through their parliamentary reserve, had donated to those same associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u97	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u98	I want to complete Valérie Rabault's memory, which I know is excellent. As far as I am concerned, I, like many parliamentarians of the majority, had taken on transparency and decided that every year, following a public call for projects, the whole of the parliamentary reserve I had, namely EUR 130000, would be used to finance only investment in local authorities. Therefore, I have never funded such associations through this. But I do not mean that those who did did so did wrong, because I fully approve of their choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u99	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 973.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u100	The status of spouses of the Presidents of the Republic is a real democratic problem. We want proof of this: the Charter of Transparency relating to the status of the spouse of the Head of State, which was published in August 2017 by a Presidency well embarrassed by this hybrid status. These spouses have no democratic legitimacy and should not have an official role. Another real problem we are dealing with today is the problem of the budget. The expenses associated with these same spouses and joint Presidents of the Republic are in fact completely opaque: the annexes produced by the Presidency of the Republic are particularly illustrative on this point. Indeed, they mention only the assignment of two advisors to Ms. Macron. But what other specific means are available in terms of offices, logistics or finance? It is necessary for a report to be submitted to Parliament in order to know what is happening not only to the current Presidency, but also to previous practices, under the former Presidencies, in this area. This will make it possible to have a real idea of the budgetary and political weight of this hybrid status of spouse or spouse of President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u102	The amendment seems to me to be satisfied with the Charter on Transparency relating to the status of the spouse of the Head of State, published on 21 August, which states: "The wife of the Head of State shall not receive any remuneration in that capacity. It does not have representational expenses. It has no own budget. » However, the Court of Auditors will exercise a specific control over the costs associated with its activity, since the same charter also provides that "The operating costs associated with the spouse of the Head of State will be presented transparently in the analytical accounts of the Elysée, subject to the supervision of the Court of Auditors, which will report publicly on them by a specific report. » These are the reasons why the Special Rapporteur, Philippe Vigier, whom I am replacing, invites you, my colleague, to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise I will issue an unfavorable opinion on his behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u103	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u104	I take this amendment not as an appeal amendment, but as an amendment of salvation and encouragement to continue the process. Indeed, as Mrs Dalloz has just pointed out, a charter for the first time specifically provides for the means made available to the spouse of the Head of State. This will make it clear what resources have been put in place. This Charter lays down both these means and principles, including the principle of transparency, which is also the first time. And transparency will be ensured by an institution whose quality is not disputed here: the Court of Auditors. In addition, a commitment is made to make its work public and public. I can give you a figure from Bercy's services: the cost of the means made available to the spouse of the Head of State amounts, because of his collaborators, to 440000 euros. It will also benefit from the security reinforcement I mentioned, as the spouse of the Head of State is also protected. With regard to all the costs that you have mentioned, honourable Member, the report you wish would not be useful because it would duplicate that of the Court of Auditors: he can be trusted to present it – if you wish – to the national representation as well as to make it public. I would add that the President of the Republic wants this report to be presented to France in the context of a public report. Your request is therefore met both by the transparency approach sought by the President of the Republic – thank you for your support – and by the commitments he has made to the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u105	On Amendment No 1003, i.e. on the following amendment, I have a request for a public vote before the New Left Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u106	Mr Secretary of State, without arguing or aiming specifically at Mrs Macron – this is not the subject; This lady is quite respectable – hear that we started this legislature with a discussion on the status of the spouses of the parliamentarians, and that there is a blind spot on the question of who accompanies the President of the Republic. That's what we mean. And this charter, which was drafted by the Presidency of the Republic, does not solve the problem. We elect a man or a woman to the Presidency of the Republic, but we do not have to give any means to the one who accompanies him; Anyway, that's our republican conception of things. In addition, many arguments had been put forward in July, when, as a result of unfortunate incidents, it had been decided – in a rather rigid way, let's say – that no one in his family could be hired anymore. But we know a lot of colleagues, mayors or regional presidents, who are honest people, but who work with their companion or companion, and who would like to get the means for this representational work. Why should the benefit of means be granted to the President or the President of the Republic, when it is strictly forbidden, even pointed out and severely punished, when it comes to our elective functions? This is a question that will have to be dealt with one day. We are to break with a form of – let us be provocative – presidential monarchy that seems inappropriate to us. The President of the Republic today, in our view, has too many powers – but that is another problem. What we are saying is that the subject is not exhausted. You spoke, Mr. Secretary of State, of the words "appeal amendment" in relation to this amendment. Well, let's take this opportunity to put the subject on the table!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u107	Secretary of State, would you like to say another word?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u108	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the REM group]] Just one clarification: the President of the Republic did not hire Brigitte Macron – who is a respectable person, as you said – he married her. In fact, in our institutions, the spouse of the President of the Republic has a function of representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u109	It's not in the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u110	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The difference, which is very great, between a job and the fact that he married her is that Mrs. Macron is not paid; means shall be granted to perform the function of representation to which it contributes. This function can be challenged, it is legitimate, but it must be clear: there is no remuneration. The parallelism with the hiring of a parliamentary staff member does not seem appropriate to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u111	I now call the appropriations of the mission "Directorate of Government Action", listed in statement B. On these appropriations, I have two amendments before me. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 1003.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u112	This amendment concerns the national platform for judicial interceptions, the NIFJ, which was designed in 2005 to thoroughly modernise the execution of judicial interceptions and, above all, their management. However – this has been the subject of press articles – it turns out that this platform is still not fully operational and encounters major difficulties: after recovering the recordings, you have to send them to another system, because there are compatibility problems. Anyway, it's extremely complicated. In an interim order published on 25 April 2016, the Court of Auditors states that the delay in this system is "injurious both for judicial investigations and for public finances". You will agree that, given the context, it becomes urgent that the system works! In August 2016, I asked the Government a written question – they were your predecessors – but I received no answer; It's been over a year. Since then, the press has echoed these difficulties. Even if we are no longer in a state of emergency, we are still in a situation where the safety of our fellow citizens can be affected by the failure of the listening system, only because, in order for the police to recover the results, we have to use software that requires training, that all this works badly and that there is a loss of information online. The amendment is therefore intended to ensure that this non-functional computer system is stopped. It proposes to use EUR 10 million for this purpose. This is not exactly the price of the system, but it would help to speed up the process. Police and magistrates should not be left in a situation where information exists and is recorded, but they remain inaccessible because the computer system does not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u113	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u114	Mrs Rabault, your amendment proposes to increase the allocation of the national platform for judicial interceptions by EUR 10 million. I will not even reply on the substance and the advisability of your amendment, since I regret to tell you – and I am surprised that such a proposal comes from you – that these appropriations do not fall within the remit of the "Direction of Government Action". They are part of the "Justice" mission, whose review was well before that of this mission. The platform is certainly the subject of an inter-ministerial portage, which may have led you to believe that it was financed from the appropriations within the scope of the Prime Minister, but it mainly concerns the ministries of justice and the interior. Its funding was decided upon as part of the adoption of the appropriations for the Justice Mission. As a result, the amendment was not considered by the Finance Committee. Personally, I express an unfavorable opinion: this is not within the scope of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u116	The same formal opinion, since it is not the right mission, but I will not be content with that answer, because Mrs Rabault's remarks are legitimate and I have no doubt that she has sufficient control over the subject – perhaps better than I – to avoid calling them into question. I am informed that the market for such software will end on 31 December and that a new market will start on 1 January 2018. It is hoped, given the importance of the approach, that this will address some of the issues raised. My response will, however, remain formal: the Government is giving an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u117	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u118	I would like to support Mrs Rabault's request. As the Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance for Justice, I would like to point out that the matter has been raised in the Chamber in connection with the examination of the appropriations for this mission. Ms. Rabault stressed a key point. As Mrs Dalloz pointed out, this is an issue that has an interdepartmental dimension – and that is the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u119	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u120	Today we have a problem, which we need to deal with very quickly – and the press has seized it: the platform does not work effectively. For this to happen, it endangers not only the security of the Elysée, but that of all our fellow citizens. I insist: perhaps this is not the right vector – although it can be judged to be legitimately a matter for the Government – but it is a real subject, and the Government should not be content with kicking, as it has just done. I will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u121	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u122	Madam Special Rapporteur, on this subject, everyone is referring to the hot potato!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u123	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u124	Today, we are discussing the action of the Government; There must be a body that ensures that the work is done and everything works well. That's why I'm saying that the money I've been using is the right thing to do – maybe you've had a bad piece of information about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u125	No, it's not the right mission!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u126	Trust me, I checked before I tabled the amendment! I repeat: everyone returns the hot potato! Justice sends her back to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior says he can't do anything because the credits don't fall within his perimeter... and that's the result of the races! I am sorry, but we are here to ensure the safety of the citizens, and our fellow citizens have no choice but to know whether the funds fall under the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior or Mr Castaner; They need to know that the mission is fulfilled!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u128	However, it is not, when the system was launched in 2005, more than ten years ago. The Court of Auditors wrote that it was not working – I am not saying it, it is the Court of Auditors. Go visit a police station in your constituency, meet the magistrates: you will see that it does not work. We can't just say, "Oh no, sorry, it's not me, it's the other one! Because, by force, no one does anything and we find ourselves, twelve years after its launch, with a system that still does not work. I cannot accept these arguments. We need listening that works; If they don't work, it's not worth passing laws that prescribe them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u129	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u130	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u131	I just want to point out to Mrs Rabault that the scope of the "Government Action Directorate" mission corresponds to the budget related to the operation of the Prime Minister's services, the State secretariats attached to him and the independent administrative authorities. Under no circumstances can appropriations under the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior be included. This is a well-known misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u132	I put to the vote Amendment No 1003.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u133	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 974.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u134	The independent administrative authorities are a useful counter-power and necessary for the proper balance of our Republic. I believe that all of us, on these benches, are attached to it, regardless of our opinion. Among them is the CSA, which plays an important role at a time when it is often through the media that our fellow citizens form a political opinion, the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, to which each of the parliamentarians had to answer – which is a good thing – or the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty. These are organizations whose role is to be vigilant about the decisions that affect the day-to-day functioning of our democracy. However, as I pointed out at the rostrum, the resources allocated to these institutions are declining; their credits at best stagnate or even regress. In our view, this is a mistake: there are good reasons to give them, on the contrary, greater means. I would stress one of these institutions: the Defender of Rights, which is a constitutional authority whose main tasks are to defend the rights of citizens, to promote the rights of the child, to combat discrimination and to ensure respect for the ethics of security activities. This institution is taking more and more place in the public debate, which is welcome. Yet his means are falling. We regret this, and it is to remedy it that we are presenting this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u135	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u136	Mr Corbière, your amendment proposes to exempt EUR 750000 from programme 129 for the benefit of the independent administrative authorities. With regard to the latter, I conduct hearings every year, and I do not share your view, as reflected in the explanatory memorandum. On the other hand, I have pointed out earlier the difficulties encountered by the Defender of Rights, who is seeing his tasks increase every year, as a result of Parliament's requests, but who does not see his appropriations increase in the same proportion; There's a big gap. However, I would like to point out that the declines in the appropriations of some independent administrative authorities are also the result of the mutualisation undertaken on the Ségur-Fontenoy site. The transfer of appropriations from programme 308 to action 10 of programme 129 "Support", linked to the sharing of the same building is thus logical. In addition, rent expenses are falling sharply, as these authorities had different locations in the heart of Paris; A major economy of scale was achieved through Operation Ségur-Fontenoy. As with the request for a report, it seems preferable to await the conclusions of the Court of Auditors. I therefore suggest that you withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, on behalf of the committee, I shall deliver an opinion which is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u137	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u138	As Mrs Dalloz and Mr Corbière have pointed out, new tasks have been entrusted to the independent administrative authorities – with good reason, firstly because it is Parliament's choice, secondly because it is necessary for a number of missions to benefit from such independence. Questioning is therefore in the right direction. However, the goal of stabilizing public spending must also be at the forefront, and all agencies must contribute to it. The best way to do this is to achieve sound savings, i.e. to achieve them on operating costs, and not necessarily on response capabilities. As Mrs Dalloz pointed out, Operation Ségur provides new means. As far as the Defender of Rights is concerned, the decline in appropriations is only apparent. The pooling of a number of support functions allows the creation of four full-time equivalents, FTEs, through the redeployment of credits to business functions. It seems to me that this is in the right direction. You can consider that not enough. I have met – like you, perhaps – the Defender of Rights, who aspires to additional means. His request is legitimate, but it must be within a given budgetary framework. In any event, resources have been made available for business functions; This must be in line with our objective. Overall, the independent administrative authorities are seeing their allocations increase from €95.6 million to €97.5 million. The Government, following its discussions with each of them in the preparation of the budget, chose to focus on small structures, which have real difficulties in achieving economies of scale through mutualization. An assessment of these missions will be necessary, in a consistent manner and in conjunction with the independent administrative authorities, for the Government to ensure the proper implementation of their core missions. For these various reasons, and while acknowledging the value of the process, the Government proposes to withdraw this amendment; Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u139	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1007.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u140	With this amendment, we propose a new review of the management of special funds by entrusting it, no longer to a limited training of the parliamentary delegation to intelligence, but to the parliamentary delegation itself, reformed and renovated. Created in 2007, the Parliamentary Intelligence Delegation – RPD – exercises a ersatz to monitor the Government's intelligence efforts. Its composition – four deputies and only four senators, including the four presidents of the law and defence committees, members of the law – does not allow pluralistic control, involving members of the opposition in its diversity. Pluralism is therefore not respected in this delegation, since not all the Assembly's components are represented in it. Therefore, we propose to increase the number of members and senators who can sit there, so that the political composition of the two assemblies is respected. In addition, we propose strengthening the delegation's powers to assess and monitor the Government's work, giving it the opportunity to conduct hearings on a wide range of information and to verify the proper use of special funds. Since you are sinking into a secure democracy, it seems to us essential that the control of citizens, through their representatives, be increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u142	It is wrong to say that the opposition is not represented in the parliamentary intelligence delegation. Of the eight current members – four MPs and four Senators – the representation is as follows: for MPs, three members of the REM group and one member of the LR group; for senators, three members of the LR group and one member of the SR group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u143	Well, that's it! You said everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u144	The area of competence requires a limited composition, which is nevertheless politically balanced. The fact that the RPD consists of only eight members does not mean that national representation is excluded from national security and intelligence issues. The annual activity report can, you imagine, contain classified information. It is therefore reserved for the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Presidents of both assemblies. The members of the RPD presented the conclusions of their report to the President of the Republic at a working meeting at the Elysée. But the RPD also publishes a public annual report for all citizens. The 2014 report gave rise, for the first time, to a public debate in the National Assembly in February 2015, and the report published in 2015 was the subject of a communication in the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Armed Forces on 15 February 2016. In both documents, the RPD makes recommendations to the public authorities and monitors their implementation throughout the year, particularly when preparing the following year's annual report. The committee has not considered this amendment, but, for the reasons I have just listed, I personally express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u146	I have no opinion on the substance of the matter, as it relates to the internal functioning of Parliament. It would perhaps be more in its place, moreover, in the framework of the working groups set up by the President of the National Assembly under the auspices of the Bureau. However, the idea of increasing the number of RPD members from eight to forty-two may be problematic with respect to the confidentiality of the work. In any case, I repeat, the subject is exclusively a matter for the National Assembly and its functioning. The Government therefore suggests withdrawal; Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u147	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 975.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u148	Through this amendment, we hope that an assessment will be made of the lack of human and financial resources of each of the independent administrative authorities – IAA – of the 308 programme, in view of the tasks entrusted to them. This balance sheet would also establish the cost to public finances. It is particularly worrying to see these authorities put on the diet. Their appropriations are either very low or stable and below inflation, as is the case with the CSA, the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life and the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty. For the Defender of Rights, credits are even falling. Would the Government intend to weaken institutions that may have been critical? We cannot imagine it. The state of affairs we are asking for would make it possible to assess the budgetary shortcomings of these vital authorities for the proper functioning of our democratic system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u150	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u151	This amendment has already been discussed and rejected in an enlarged committee. You are sending the Government a new request for a report on the financial and human resources allocated to IAAs under programme 308. You have, it is true, the merit of simplifying the task of the editors, since you already set their conclusions by asking for "a balance sheet of the reality of the lack of human and financial resources". At the very least, it is original to ask for a report by setting its final direction in advance. However, I suggest that your amendment be withdrawn, which I myself asked last year for a report to the Court of Auditors on the wage policy of the independent administrative authorities, under the second paragraph of Article 58 of the LOLF. I therefore invite you to await the conclusions of this report, which will be submitted to the Committee on Finance in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u152	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u153	I propose to Mr Ratenon, who will forgive me, to refer to the answer I had given to Mr Corbière. We cannot consider that the proper functioning of the IAA is threatened, even if, you are right, we must remain vigilant. I suggest, however, that you trust the special rapporteurs who have dealt with the subject. The quality reports devoted to it provide interesting insights into your legitimate expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u154	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 976.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u155	The Government seems to underestimate the threat to our digital sovereignty. France, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, a nuclear power and a sixth world economic power, faces many cyber threats. Our administrations are targets that are particularly exposed and easy to attack. However, to counter the threats of blocking our computer systems, attempts at phishing and economic espionage, France has only one arch and a few arrows. The National Agency for the Security of Information Systems, the ANSSI, is in fact ridiculously under-funded compared to the agencies available to other world powers. For example, the United States and China have established effective administrations with significant human, financial and technological capabilities to ensure cyber-defensive and offensive capability. Our country cannot remain passive any longer. The Government must take stock of computer incidents – more than 1000 per year – affecting the French authorities. The report we are calling for will allow us to assess the budgetary shortcomings and the appropriations that must be allocated to ANSSI for a real upgrade, worthy of our rank of power.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u156	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u157	Once again, our visions converge, since I asked last year for a report to the Court of Auditors on this subject. You are asking for another report on the human and financial resources of ANSSI. As surprising as it may seem, the General Secretariat for Defence and National Security – SGDSN – of which ANSSI is an operator, is the main theme of my special report. According to its pattern of jobs, the ANSSI has seen its workforce increase by twenty-five full-time equivalents, after fifty last year – memory – and twenty-five next year. The increase is expected to continue in the coming years. As far as the state of the cyber threat is concerned, the latest White Paper on defence and national security devotes a long time to this. More recently, the 2017 Strategic Review of Defence and National Security, available for download on the ministry's website, addressed the issue of strengthening threats in cyberspace. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u158	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 977.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u159	The special funds of the Prime Minister, which were used lightly before 2001, will soon be transferred, but even if they are theoretically restricted, since then, to actions related to national security, their use is not subject to any control. The Special Funds Audit Commission – CVFS – is in fact only exercising a regularity check, as shown in its first public conclusions, published in the report of the parliamentary delegation to intelligence of 25 February 2016. We ask that, with the opinion of civil society and with due respect for the secrecy of national defence, the historical and current use of special funds be the subject of an in-depth expediency study. What expenses remain to be met with these funds, which still represent more than EUR 60 million per year? It is important to have a comprehensive study on the unregulated use of these funds, bearing in mind that unacceptable practices have existed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u161	I'll be very brief. Your amendment reflects a clear lack of awareness of confidentiality requirements in this area. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u163	Same opinion on the merits. Any system may have loopholes, but in this case control is exercised by the competent parliamentary committee. Today, and for a few years now, special funds are intended exclusively for internal and external security operations, which require them. I would not want to be allowed to believe that other uses are made of it. In 2001, when you mentioned it, I was the chief of staff of a minister. So I know the uses you're talking about, which Lionel Jospin and Jacques Chirac put an end to. It is always possible, as in any profession, to drift, but the control committee is precisely responsible for verifying that these funds, which should not be used generally, are intended exclusively for safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u164	I call the appropriations of the "Investments for the Future" mission, entered in statement B.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u165	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 1084.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u166	The third part of the investment programme for the future, as presented to us in this budget, gives rise to our incomprehension, because it does not aim to engage the country and its economy in a great ecological transition, which we believe is indispensable. Rather, it shows that the Government's objective is to produce in all sectors, regardless of the environmental and climatic consequences. We regret it, because the stakes are immense, all here acknowledge it. PIA 3 does not measure the urgency enough. We ask you to become aware of this and to mark it with stronger gestures. At least allow us the possibility of ordering an independent report in order to check the adequacy of the commitments made in terms of environmental protection and the means allocated to achieve this. That is the whole point of this amendment. You have nothing to fear from its adoption if we are all convinced that our policy must live up to the challenges of our time and the civilizational challenge we face.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u169	The committee has not considered this amendment, but I am against it in my personal capacity. It could be useful if we already had a vision of the 44 billion invested in IAPs 1 and 2. However, we do not have a concrete response from the Prime Minister's services, which tell us that this is still premature. I therefore do not see the point of asking for a report on the consideration of the ecological dimension by future investments. As for IAP 3, it has EUR 10 billion, but only EUR 1 billion is entered in payment appropriations for 2018. It will therefore be necessary to take stock in a year's time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u171	When I read this amendment, I have the feeling that you doubt, Mr Corbière, the Government's willingness to act to respond to the environmental emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u172	You're perceptive, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u173	You are in this role as an opponent. I fear that an independent information report, of which we do not really know the nature and whose independent character could always be contested, will not help you to be enlightened or reassured. If this report were to be allowed, I do not know what its legal form would be and we would find it difficult to implement it. Above all, we would have a problem: we cannot reduce the action of the public authorities – broader than that of the Government – with regard to the energy transition and the response to the environmental emergency to the investments of the future alone. We would therefore have only a partial vision of the national mobilization that must take place. We are aware of the stakes and share the objectives, but I doubt that we agree on how to achieve them and how best to fight to respond to the environmental emergency. Inconvenient opinion, this report would only be a partial response. On the other hand, Parliament has the means of control and investigation, which I believe is essential. The National Assembly has a whole range of means that you could use. An assessment mission or commission of inquiry could thus be set up.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u174	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1087.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u175	The Government announced that IAP 3 funds would not be allocated to sectors in advance, but that this third component would be organized from upstream, i.e. from research to enterprises. It is also stated in the mission document that new sectors, such as safety, agri-food or tourism, could benefit. In our view, the priority of investment in the future should be the ecological transition, which requires a change in production patterns and, therefore, intense research to achieve this. But future investments are aimed at innovation for innovation, in our opinion blindly, as long as it can generate growth. In particular, the fact that future investments finance safety or tourism can be called into question. This raises the issue of the proper use of public finances in the face of the challenges we face. With this amendment, we are asking for a report to assess these points, in particular the risks of a boon effect caused by the absence of any change in appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u177	I do not see the precise relationship between your request for a report and the issues related to AIPs. Article 8 of the Law of 9 March 2010 on Amending Finance for 2010 requires the Office of the Commissioner-General for Investment to provide Parliament with the elements necessary for its control. So the framework already exists. Of course, the reality is quite different, hence the interest of having included IAPs this year in the budgetary discussion on the Government's action. In fact, it is quite difficult to find it, and the Court of Auditors has sufficiently denounced it in the past. With the will, I believe that we will be able to have a better approach and a better knowledge of the investments made in the framework of the IAPs. The committee did not consider this amendment, tabled after its meeting. Personally, I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u179	This amendment is based on the same approach as the previous one: the La France group seems to doubt the will of the Government and suggests that the integration of the security, agri-food and tourism sectors into the IAP scheme would be at the expense of the response to the environmental emergency. This is not the case: intervention in these areas is a way of implementing an ambitious programme for energy transition and sustainable development. I would like to reassure the group La France insoubted: there is no opposition between the integration of the three sectors mentioned above within the PIA and the willingness to go quickly and as far as possible to respond to the challenges of sustainable development. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u180	I call the appropriations in the annex budget "Official publications and administrative information", entered in statement C.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u181	We have completed the review of the missions "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", "Governance authorities", "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement" and "Investissements d'avenir" as well as the annex budget "Official publications and administrative information". I'm suspending the session for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u182	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations for research and higher education (No 273, Annexes 33 and 34 ; No 274, volumes IV and V; No 264 rectified, Volume XIV; No 266 corrected, Volume X). The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, committee chairmen, ladies and gentlemen, special rapporteurs and draftsmen, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, I had the opportunity to present, alongside the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Education, the Student Plan that the Government built in order to respond to a double urgency: to stop the use of the drawing of lots for access to higher education, which involved more than 66500 students in 2017, and to combat failure in the first cycle, to which we slowly got used. This is demonstrated by the budget documents themselves, in which the three-year licence success rate is one of the performance indicators, with a target of 30%, which shows how long we have resigned ourselves to failure. This is the whole meaning of the Student Plan, of course, but this ambition was already visible in the finance bill for 2018, in particular through the appropriations of the interdepartmental mission "Research and higher education", MIRES. As you know, this draft budget foresees a sharp increase in the appropriations under the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation: these will increase by €707 million compared to the initial Finance Act of 2017, to €24.5 billion. The MIRES as a whole will have EUR 27.7 billion. It is thus a considerable effort that is made to prepare for our future, that of our youth, of course, through our higher education, but also that of the whole country, which feeds on the progress of research and their rapid dissemination for and through higher education, and through innovation. A word first of all about our research budget priorities. They are simple: we want to restore oxygen to our researchers, who have been suffering, for years now, from insufficient funding and doctrinal quarrels between the supporters of project research and the defenders of recurrent funding. In this debate, the Government wanted to provide a simple answer: we need both. Full project-funded research would be perpetually fragile and subject to all the uncertainties of the economic and scientific situation; laboratories financed only from basic credits could not allow all new ideas to be eclectic and all young talents to express themselves. We are emerging from these sterile debates to reaffirm support for research as a whole. We are doing this by strengthening the resources of the National Research Agency, the ANR, by EUR 140 million in payment appropriations, bringing its budget to EUR 750 million. In order to improve the selection rates for calls for projects, its commitment capacity will be increased to EUR 706 million, or an additional 32.7 million. We will thus begin the return to a selectivity that will no longer be totally counterproductive. In addition, the Carnot Institutes will see their appropriations increase by €5 million, as they have demonstrated their effectiveness in establishing effective, balanced and fluid partnerships with the economic world. At the same time, we have made an unprecedented decision in the recent period: we have chosen to allocate EUR 25 million to equip laboratories to increase their core funding. These 25 million are a first breath; It will have to be amplified, but it is already a break with what had become a form of dogma: the permanent reduction of basic credits to the benefit of research on projects alone. We have chosen to increase overall research spending by EUR 501 million, to EUR 8.4 billion for 2018, an increase of 6.3%, which is considerable. At the same time, we have worked to reduce the structural financial fragility of the sector, by restoring funding for the very large research infrastructures, the ITIRs, the spearheads of our science at the international level, whose overall scientific and budgetary programming has not been sufficiently done so far. We have put an end to the fact that national research organizations such as the National Centre for Scientific Research – CNRS – and the Office of the Commissioner for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy – CEA – were forced to take over the weight of these projects from their budgets. Our aim is to break out of a bad habit of concealing, under apparently rising budgets, various budgetary stalemates. The €707 million increase we propose to adopt is a real effort, whether in research or higher education. This unprecedented effort will bring the resources allocated to higher education in 2018 to more than 13.4 billion euros. We wanted to break with the harmful logic that used to prevail by upgrading the budgets of our universities and by financing the old age-technical shift – GVT. In this way, they will have appropriations of 195 million euros higher than those provided for in the Finance Act for 2017. If only the funds actually available are taken into account, an additional EUR 234 million will be spent on higher education and notified to universities and large schools. Funding for the rehabilitation of university real estate will benefit from an increase of EUR 59 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u184	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor for research.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u185	Mr President, Minister, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the Horizon 2020 strategy adopted by France and its European partners reaffirms the objective of increasing domestic research and development expenditure to 3% of GDP by 2020. France, which currently spends about 2.2% of GDP on research and development, has not yet reached this level. However, as of 2018, French research will benefit from a significant improvement in its situation thanks to this draft budget. The appropriations of the inter-ministerial mission "Research and higher education" will increase by more than 700 million euros, of which 500 million will be allocated to the part "Research" for which I am entrusted as Special Rapporteur. They will thus reach €27.6 billion in payment appropriations in 2018, and will increase further in 2019 and 2020 to €28 billion. In three years, the budgetary effort of the Government and the majority for higher education and research will therefore amount to €1.3 billion. The research budget is characterized, like the entire finance bill for 2018, by its sincerity. It marks the end of the under-budgeting of some international research organisations, such as the European Space Agency, but also of the funding of staff and researchers by taking full account of the GVT for the first time. It also fully meets the expectations of researchers, trade unions and research centre officials, whom I met throughout the fall. For example, it increases the recurrent funding needed to operate laboratories by EUR 25 million. The ambition of this budget is clear: to empower researchers and not to hire others at any cost. However, it does not fall into the trap of systematically opposing recurrent financing and calls for projects. The decline in funding from the National Research Agency – ANR – in recent years has led to a collapse in the project selection rate, which has discouraged applications. The NRA cannot properly assume its role of funding research excellence if the project selection rate falls to 12% or even 10%. It has to go up to 20 per cent. This is why our 2018 budget allocates an additional €133 million to the ANR, which is excellent news. However, significant challenges remain in improving the effectiveness of our research policy. First of all, the ANR funding foresees a very small amount – 10% – to cover the precipit costs – or overhead – necessary for the full funding of research projects. The European average is between 20% and 25%. Improving the consideration of the full funding of research projects is necessary to ensure that all our researchers truly benefit from full support when they win a call for projects. Secondly, it is essential that our research and innovation be more effective, which means improving the articulation of our tools with our objectives. The research tax credit – CIR –, estimated at €5.8 billion for 2018, is an effective tool to preserve large research centres in France and to locate our private research there. Nevertheless, it is necessary to improve the articulation of all industrial and innovation policy with this research ambition. The IRC could also be better used as a lever to encourage the recruitment of young doctors. To this end, I will introduce several amendments to the non-attached articles of our budget. Indeed, many Ph.D. holders still face real difficulties in obtaining employment in companies after their training. I welcome the desire expressed by the Minister in the enlarged committee to have the Doctorate entered in the National Register of Professional Skills so that the skills of PhD holders are better known and recognised in companies. Finally, it is essential to work further to clarify the budgetary architecture of our research policy. Cooperation between its actors and the budgetary presentation of our appropriations is not always optimal – that is the least we can say! Thus, the autonomy of universities only makes sense if they take advantage of it to differentiate themselves and not to multiply themselves with similar projects, without real coordination. This is therefore the whole issue we are now facing: how can we restore the leading role of national research projects assumed by large research organisations while supporting the dynamics of institutions at their scale by means of a site policy spread throughout the territory? Similarly, it can be noted that the coordination of actors and strategy can be improved by the multiplication, in recent years, of research valorisation institutions such as Carnot institutes, technology transfer acceleration companies – SATT – and technological research institutes – IRT. Real work is needed to review and simplify the chain from basic research to commercial development through applied research and innovation. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I wholeheartedly endorse the budget of the MIRES, and the members of the La République group who are working with me, because it is essential that France retains the vocation that has always been its own: to be a great country at the forefront of scientific and technical excellence!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u186	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, on higher education and student life, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u187	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on higher education appropriations, in particular university appropriations, should not be regarded as a vote on expenditure but as a vote on investments. This is a major vote, essential! These credits are indeed an investment in our country's competitiveness and in the development and success of its youth. It, full of resources, desires, ideas and energy, gives the sense of the journey an essential value. It is our future, and we must bet on it. Our higher education system must strive to give it all the keys to evolve in a world where the understanding of complexity, disciplinary and international openness and intellectual agility are essential for integration, progress and development. On this subject, and on access to higher education in particular, simplisticism too often dominates. Some say, "Let the best win! and campaign for brutal selection from the first cycle, without taking into account social determinisms, differences in cultural capital and access to information, or the difficulty of projecting into a well-defined path at seventeen, eighteen or nineteen years. The others, on the contrary, suggest that all paths can be taken by all and advocate for their unconditional access, without taking into account the resources and capacities of the institutions, which they imagine to be infinitely extensible, and above all the actual possibilities of a high school student to succeed in a particular way. This discourse leads to the great human waste that is now well known and to selection by failure or drawing by lot with the complicity of anxious algorithms. It also leads to a financial waste of several hundred million euros which could be saved, mainly redeployed, for better purposes if the gaps in the guidance and information system for high school students were filled. The draft budget for 2018 proposes to follow the path of accompanying institutions and the sustainable transformation of the higher education system. In particular, it allows us to overcome the sterile confrontation of irreconcilable visions. As a result, MIRES funding will increase by more than €700 million in 2018, of which nearly €250 million will be allocated to the "Higher Education" section. They will thus reach €27.6 billion in payment appropriations, of which €16.1 billion will be allocated to higher education and university research and student life programmes. These resources will be reinforced by the appropriations provided for in the Grand Investment Plan, which devotes EUR 450 million to the reform of university curricula, in particular to the diversification of undergraduate courses and the reform of the guidance system. They will also be funded through the Student Plan, which was unveiled a few days ago and will soon be voted on. It provides for EUR 500 million during the quinquennium to open up places and create jobs in the voltage sectors. It is therefore a real effort to make coherence and means for a system that has become deeply unequal, but also to create places in certain fields, in particular those which have a high success rate and the easy integration at the end. It also aims to support students through a successful contract with each of them and thus contribute to a reduction in the demographic pressure on universities, which I would remind them will face the arrival of an additional 350,000 students within ten years. However, I would like to call you to the utmost vigilance when implementing the Student Plan, Minister. Indeed, universities and their staff will have a very short time to rethink their architectures as well as their teaching models and set up specific courses. It is necessary to give them the means to do so, in particular to institutions that have not or have not benefited much previously from the IAPs, the Campus Plan, initiatives of excellence – IDEX – or other mechanisms that promote calls for projects, because their situation is particularly strained financially. I therefore call on you to ensure the most homogeneous distribution possible of the important dedicated funding that you have managed to mobilise. Another major challenge for the future of financing higher education, to which I know you very much appreciate, is the development of its own resources. The development of continuing training, in particular, seems to be a promising path, insufficiently deployed in our universities and large schools in our time of profound economic change. Finally, I will refer to student life and student support. The draft budget for 2018 contains a new freeze on the registration fees, the university restaurant ticket and the rents of the CROUS. These measures are in addition to the construction program of an additional 60000 student housing units and another major measure of the Student Plan to eliminate the social security contribution of 217 euros. These very significant measures in favour of the purchasing power of students should be welcomed. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I therefore invite the national representative to vote for the credits of the mission "Enseignement Supérieure et Recherche".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u188	Mr Pierre Henriet, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, on research, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u189	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the first five-year budget foresees a very significant increase in the resources devoted to research. MIRES appropriations increase by 2 per cent compared to those provided for in the 2017 Finance Act. Research-specific appropriations increase by 2.9% in commitment authorities and 3.8% in payment appropriations. This effort is essential, because French research was seriously weakened during the previous parliamentary term by the drop in staff, the decrease in appropriations and the lack of sincerity of budgets. These constraints have weakened France's position on international research, making it the seventh largest publication in the world. It is therefore necessary to increase the means of research so that France remains a pioneer country in global research. The increase proposed in the draft budget for 2018 is balanced. It benefits project research due to the EUR 32.7 million increase in the ANR's intervention appropriations and to the basic support of research laboratories, whose appropriations are increasing by around EUR 25 million. Moreover, this budget makes a real effort of sincerity, for the first time in many years, because all foreseeable expenditure is covered, in particular those caused by the increase in the wage bill. It will therefore allow research teams to focus more on their projects than on finding ways to finance them. This rapidly growing budget is also good news for the French economy. In fact, investment in research has an important driving effect. Each euro invested produces a value added of EUR 4 and each job leads to the creation of just over three jobs in the other sectors of the economy. Far from being an unproductive expenditure for the nation, research funding remains an essential factor in French competitiveness. I would like, Madam Minister, to acknowledge your commitment to innovation, which is the first jurisdiction within your departmental portfolio. Funding for innovation policies by MIRES increased in 2018. Thus, support for the Carnot institutes, whose aim is to strengthen collaboration between public research and companies, is increasing by €5 million. This financial effort is part of a global overhaul of the French strategy to support innovation based on the transformation of higher education institutions, the reaffirmation of the national role of research organisations, the search for more effective collaboration between universities, research organisations and businesses, and more balanced support for research, both basic research and project research. This unprecedented budgetary effort should therefore help to revive a positive dynamic around research and innovation in France. I will therefore, together with the co-rapporteur Danièle Hérin, give a very positive opinion on the appropriations of the mission "Research and Higher Education". We have devoted part of our report to scientific, technical and industrial culture – CSTI. This is an essential component of the mission, but its share is still too modest, while our time is marked by an increase in scientific relativism and an alarming weakening of the authority of knowledge. Recurrent debates about compulsory vaccination, global warming or the theory of evolution are here to recall this. We must also support the dissemination of scientific culture because it helps to combat the growing disaffection of the scientific fields in higher education. This disaffection is worrying, for it could ultimately undermine France's ability to remain in the first ranks of the nations that innovate. Finally, scientific culture helps political authorities and the general public to position themselves vis-à-vis scientific controversies; It therefore contributes to advancing the acceptability of decisions. For all these reasons, support for scientific culture is fundamental. The 2013 Law on Higher Education and Research provided several positive responses: it established a national strategy for scientific culture and entrusted the regions with the task of coordinating the actions put in place on these subjects. The state now plays a strategist role, as we have pointed out in our report. The MIRES architecture, in the state of the research programs involved, does not fully draw the full amount of the CSTI's appropriations. These appropriations are also partly charged to other research programmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u190	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u191	In addition, MIRES significantly enhances the capacity of operators, universities, laboratories and research organisations, including international ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u193	Mr Philippe Berta, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, on higher education and student life, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u194	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to the evolution of the appropriations in the higher education budget, as my colleague in the Committee on Finance has already presented them. To the €200 million increase, however, I would be tempted to add, in addition to the Student Plan, the €142.5 million opened on the 421 programme "Supporting progress in teaching and research" of the "Investments of the Future" mission. A link between this programme and the "Research and Higher Education" mission would also make this public policy so important for the future of our country more readable. I wanted to devote my report to university clusters, and more specifically to the communities of universities and institutions, better known as COMUE, mechanisms created by the Fioraso Act of 22 July 2013. The desire to bring together the actors of higher education and research is an already long-standing and legitimate ambition, to increase coherence and readability, to increase our research potential and to stimulate various pedagogical innovations. For example, the introduction of EUMCs could have provided opportunities for new interdisciplinary training, access to a master's degree in engineering, transfer of good professionalisation practices between schools and universities, a continuum between basic and applied research, increased potential for valorisation and generalisation of the best offers that make up student life. However, while progress has been observed in these directions, thanks to a unanimously welcomed strengthening of the dialogue between the actors of the sites, the arrangements remain tense. At the origin of these tensions, multiple, sometimes contradictory objectives in their implementation and a tight timetable, which weighed as soon as attempts were made to set up these new structures. The combination of the creation of this legal framework for better territorial coordination with the launch of the IAP 2 by the CGI, which aims at excellence and international visibility, has been and remains one of the main complexities experienced by actors on the ground. While territorial coordination can be based on a "services" COMUE model, which develops joint actions between members, the international jury that allocates IDEX and I-SITES for the IAP promotes ever more integrated governance. The actors interviewed often regretted the weak articulation of messages between the CGI, attached to the Prime Minister, who leads the IAP, and the Ministry of Higher Education and Research, which leads site policies. A better articulation between your ministry, Minister, and the CGI seems to me to be essential today. I firmly believe that it is the political project that must take precedence today. Unfortunately, the desire for increased co-operation of the actors, born with the COMUEs, is now limited by this legal framework to complex governance, while the requirements of the CGI for the maintenance of IDEX and I-SITES reinforce the urgency of reform for the groups concerned. I am also convinced that it is possible to maintain a balance between quality close learning and the creation of international champions only if each of these two logics is fully implemented. The apparent contradiction cannot be resolved by an in-between which would penalize the simultaneous achievement of both objectives. If the political will is the creation of some ten French champions identified by the rankings and, consequently, attractive internationally, this cannot be done without equipping them with capabilities similar to their competitors, such as the selection of students, or without reflecting on the status of teachers-researchers, who are already engaged. The time for reform has therefore come and the Government, sharing this analysis, seems determined to give an important place to experimentation, a pragmatic solution that allows us to leave – or to leave – the ground. On the other hand, the proposed legislative timetable seems uncertain: will you take up the bill on student success and orientation, which is close to examination, or will you retain as a legislative vehicle the bill on the right to error and administrative simplification? If the latter solution were retained, would it not be simpler, given the expectations of the field, to carry out the consultation now, in order to present Parliament with a "hard" mechanism and not a request for authorization to legislate by order?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u195	Please conclude, Mr draftsman.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u196	I hope these questions will be answered. I would particularly like to thank the people who worked with me and helped me a lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u197	Mr Richard Lioger, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for the major research organisations, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u198	Mr President, Madam Minister, committee chairmen, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, in an enlarged committee on 24 October, I had the opportunity to express my commitment to the world of research, being myself a teacher-researcher and having served as chair of a university. A country's research and development effort promotes the competitiveness of its economy and contributes to its international reach. It is enough to convince ourselves of this to look at the performance of two of our main partners, the United States and Germany, which devote almost 3% of their national wealth to research. In this innovation race, France certainly occupies a significant place, with a research effort by public and private actors estimated at 2.25% of GDP in 2016. But if we look at the evolution over a longer period, this ratio is no longer growing: after increasing by 0.16 percentage points between 2008 and 2014 to 2.28% of GDP, it has remained at about the same level for the past three years. I therefore welcome the Government's efforts to ensure that the State budget allocated to research has not suffered from the imperatives of controlling public expenditure. Thus, the payment appropriations for the research and higher education mission were increased to €27.67 billion in 2018, representing an increase of more than €700 million. The 172 programme, which brings together most of the state's allocations to research organisations, is the first beneficiary of this dynamic: its payment appropriations show an increase of almost 350 million euros in 2018, to 6.77 billion euros, an increase of more than 5%. Your rapporteur particularly welcomes the resources finally allocated to the Agence nationale de la recherche, the main operator of financing on competitive calls for projects in France, which has its allocation in payment appropriations increased by more than 20%. In 2013 and 2014, the Agency had suffered two consecutive decreases of 12% in its State allocations, which were all the more aggravating its intervention budget. The situation had gradually recovered since 2015 for commitment authorisations, but not for payment appropriations, still very insufficient in 2017. In order to meet its payment deadlines, the operator has been reduced to highly soliciting its cash, which is currently close to zero. Furthermore, as Amélie de Montchalin indicated earlier, the Agency should be allowed to significantly increase the rate of the precipit it allocates to establishments. This flat rate is currently 11%, lower than European standards, which often exceed 20%. Research institutions and universities must therefore bear a significant share of the indirect costs of implementing a project supported by the NRA on their own funds. Beyond the NRA alone, I would like, Madam Minister, to refer once again to the financial situation of specialized research organizations. Most of them have seen their staffing improved between 2017 and 2018, such as the CNRS and INRIA. These increases will help organizations cover the additional costs associated with the old age-technical slide and career enhancement measures in the public service. However, these increases will sometimes be insufficient to enable new research actions to be undertaken and, in some cases, to finance large-scale projects. In this regard, I would like to mention the example of the National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Automation, which, taking into account a reserve of €2.6 million applied by the State, received a lower allocation in 2017 than it was in 2013. Even well-equipped organizations sometimes face difficulties in financing the full range of missions for which they are responsible. This is the case with INSERM, which is not assured of being able to carry out the genome sequencing project. The reserve, even at reduced rates, of the appropriations allocated by the finance law can significantly affect the capacity for intervention. Part of the budget opinion this year is devoted to technological research institutes and, more broadly, to the tools available to public actors and businesses. As I said in the enlarged committee, these tools sometimes appear too complex and should be rationalized. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I, too, thank the people who helped us in drafting this report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u199	Mr Gérard Menuel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, on research in the fields of sustainable development, environmental management and resources, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u200	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in order to meet the challenges of climate change and adapt our country's capacity to respond effectively and sustainably to the needs of its people, we need dynamic national research. Research that is able to explain the phenomena, but also to inform debates and decision-making on complex topics such as the use of plant protection products or the future of nuclear energy, and to design the solutions of tomorrow. Strong and entrepreneurial public research is thus an issue of national independence and international responsibility, but also of political and operational effectiveness. With regard to the robustness of the state's investments in research on environmental issues, it must be acknowledged that the draft budget for 2018 promises not only to renew them but also to consolidate them. We have reviewed for advice the appropriations for programs 172, 190 and 193, which support this research. Their progress will be objectively substantial. The 172 "Multidisciplinary scientific and technological research" programme will earn close to €347 million in payment appropriations. 96 and 124 of these additional million will be spent on energy research and 26 million on environmental research. These are the only thematic budgets that will increase within programme 172. The 193 "Space research" programme, which finances in particular all satellite devices for monitoring the evolution of our planet and its climate, will be strengthened by more than EUR 155 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations. Finally, at the heart of our challenges, the 190 programme "Research in the fields of sustainable energy, development and mobility" will increase by €57 million in commitment authorisations and by almost €24 million in payment appropriations. In fact, these additional resources will make it possible to finance large research infrastructures as well as France's international commitments. This is an honourable result in the light of financial uncertainties and debts, particularly to the European Space Agency, which have weighed on the research budget in recent years. On the other hand, these additional resources will only benefit very marginally the various public research operators. Ideally, allocations for agency interventions will stagnate or even decline. Only the promise of a restriction of the reserve offer them new investment prospects, but they remain theoretical. As for their means of operation, although it is true that after several years marked by often declining subsidies, the draft budget will finally cover the natural changes in their wage bill, it will not fill the shortfall in recent years. Similarly, if the National Research Agency obtains EUR 134 million in payment appropriations for the financing of project research, these financial reinforcements will offer little room for development. Above all, the system intended to reimburse operators for operating costs incurred by research projects still does not cover the reality of the costs. Over the years, all public research organisations have seen the share of government funding decrease significantly without their missions being adapted – quite the contrary. All have achieved significant savings on their operating budgets and the largest operators have managed to find new balances. But many smaller organizations have now reached their limits. I am thinking of the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour – ANSES –, the National Research Institute for Science and Technology for the Environment and Agriculture – IRSTEA – and the National Institute for Health and Medical Research – INSERM. The draft budget for 2018 offers them a break in the deterioration of their situation, but it does not help them to stabilize it. Minister, what is the Government planning to help operators preserve their human capabilities, conduct their expertise and research missions at the high level expected of them? In my report, I wanted to shed more light on two themes. How does French public research work on food safety and safety issues? How does it contribute to the achievement of the electricity mix objectives set by the Energy Transition for Green Growth Act? How does it contribute in particular to the development of renewable energies? The energy mix and its evolution, planned by law in terms of objectives and timetable, is an illustration of a policy displayed and unaccompanied at the level needed. The result is written in advance. Too few research and development resources are available to achieve the stated objectives. In fact, your colleague, the Minister of State, noticed that a few days ago. The hearings and visits that I have made allow me to testify to the voluntarism of our research organizations to seize the problems of sustainable development, and to their remarkable ability to imagine and develop effective solutions for our future. But these abilities are expressed in a surprisingly upset context. My first surprise was that, if our research operators invest more than ever in new energy technologies, the share of state subsidies in these sectors has rather followed a reverse trend, while this is a crucial priority. I have more questions to ask you, minister, but I will send them to you in writing, which will allow you to answer me in the next few days.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u201	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Sabine Rubin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u202	Minister, on October 5, I asked you about the academic year that left more than 3,000 students unassigned. I would also point out to you the situation of the schools in tension, in Besançon, for example, where 600 students have to share an amphitheater of 120 places. In several universities, courses were postponed for several weeks due to a lack of teachers, finally found in haste at the other end of France. I was also asking you about the situation of these precarious teachers, whose numbers are constantly increasing. Finally, I pointed to the chronic deficit of fifteen universities, due in particular to the GVT, one of the consequences of the autonomy conferred by the law on the freedoms and responsibilities of universities. On my way, I discovered that the teachers-researchers no longer had the time or the means to search for them. Minister, I agree with you at least that higher education fails to integrate and succeed in the diversity of profiles encountered at university. As you said yourself: "This failure is not a reflection of a lack of interest in the teaching profession, but a reflection of a lack of resources and a lack of pedagogical autonomy. » Do you think that the EUR 194 million increase in the budget for higher education will meet all these needs? Let's remind them: need places with the expected arrival of 40,000 more students each year, need to compensate the GVT, need to reduce the precariousness of teachers, need to unload the teachers-researchers to let them finally look. To this, it will be necessary to add the cost of processing the 7 million applications files for the beginning of 2018, the cost of the study directors, that of the refresher courses, that of the pedagogical engineering to be put in place for personalized courses, as foreseen by your bill, moreover rejected by the Higher Council of Education. Minister, behind every good idea, there are ways to deploy or redeploy. But within universities, already on the brink of asphyxiation, there is little more to be redeployed. We need to invest massively. With an additional EUR 194 million, the account is definitely not there. Let's move on to the search. You are announcing a triumphal increase of 500 million euros for research, all programmes combined. Looking more closely, we can see that 150 million are allocated to space research, while only 20 million are devoted to research in the field of sustainable energy, development and mobility. And within this same area, you prefer an increase in the budget for aeronautics rather than for research related to renewable energies. We are challenging this budgetary arbitration, which does not correspond to the fundamental interests of our country or to the new challenges facing humanity. As for the research organisations, they lose thirty posts, transferred to the National Research Agency which, however, does not do research! It is merely a body for allocating funds from whom the researchers ask for their money for their work. What a curious paradox it is to favour an additional administrative step: in short, a genuine liberal bureaucracy! There is an alternative to the model imposed by the Shanghai ranking, whose philosophy implicitly inspires your budget. Instead of competition between universities, between laboratories, between researchers to access funding, we propose to distribute in a balanced way a budget genuinely covering the full needs expressed by the academic world, to titularize precarious staff, to set up an autonomy allowance of 800 euros for students, to build and renovate student housing. Madam Minister, under an additional $2 billion, whatever your intentions, nothing serious can be done. In conclusion, I would like to go back to the conditions for examining the budget in committee. The constrained framework of this fiscal year largely limits the opposition's room for manoeuvre. However, we have sought to sustain this budget, by requesting information reports, in order to highlight the human realities behind the figures. These reports also assess the urgency of legislation and constitute one of the fundamental rights of the opposition under Article 34 of the LOLF. I regret that some rapporteurs and Commissioners have not even taken an interest in it and that these reports have all been rejected in committee. I am now indignant that most of them are simply retaliatory, depriving national representation of a substantive debate. Madam Minister, I give you credit for your good faith, but the appropriations remain definitely insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u203	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u204	Mr President, the Minister, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, certain budgets are particularly important as their themes affect the future of our nation through access to the knowledge of as many of its children as possible. That of national education is among those, but also that of research, higher education and student life. The Government and its majority are constantly referring to innovation, entrepreneurial spirit and youth as sources of energy for our country. It's fair, even if I would add social justice and access to the law. But then, why such a budget for research and higher education, which is cruelly lacking in ambition and does not meet the difficulties, especially for university and student life? Nearly EUR 200 million more for higher education is an increase that we can take note of. However, it is not up to the challenges of the university, the needs of the institutions and the real resources allocated per student. This year, an additional 35,000 students were welcomed, and this movement will continue. Between 2008 and 2018, the number of students increased by 20%, but the budget for higher education did not follow, and the amount allocated per student thus decreased by 10% in ten years. You're not responsible, minister. Previous governments have spoken of autonomy, excellence, but the means have not been at the rendezvous! Every year, an additional $1 billion is needed for the university to be able to accommodate new students in dignified conditions. All trade union organizations, students or teachers, say so. This level of investment is necessary to put an end to the scandals of high school students who find themselves unassigned, or at universities in a pitiful state, in overcrowded classes of directed work. It is a more promising investment for our country than the various and varied tax gifts! We must grasp the challenge of student demography. To answer this question, two ways are possible. The first is to close the university on itself, creating ever higher barriers at the entrance. This path – this impasse – is carried by those who believe that the university is sick of its democratisation, those who do not see with a good eye the access to the superior for the students in the professional field. By not providing sufficient resources to the university, they are given, in a certain way, reason. The second way is to empower schools to accompany students to the best, by significantly increasing credits and, above all, by empowering students to focus on their studies. This is also the way of the actors of national education who know that the orientation of pupils in high school will only improve by increasing human resources, by giving all its place to the information and documentation centres which close one after another, it is unfortunately evident! in the Seine-Saint-Denis where several closed before the re-entry. This is the path that seeks to put an end to the deadly competition of institutions and to a two-tier university. You will remove the APB platform and the use of drawing lots. This is very good news, as the system was opaque, ineffective and, above all, deeply unjust. In trying to reform the orientation, you are attacking one of the root causes of the problem with the Minister of National Education. Yes, students must be better prepared to walk between high school and university, helping them to refine their choices, to measure the constraints and possibilities specific to each field. However, guidance cannot be the only choice of teachers in high schools and universities, through the system of future and expected sheets. The last choice must go back to the bachelor's degree, because it is his future that is being played. Still, there must be places available and resources! You are right to want to fight against the high failure rate in the first year of the license. This human waste is unacceptable and often reproduces social inequalities. Again, however, there should be a large increase in the number of positions of research teachers, which is not funded. If I were to sum up the nature of this budget and the announced Student Plan, I would say, Madam Minister, that you remain in the middle of the ford, with a plan that tries to manage the shortage, the ill-being of the French university, without really treating it, without really putting an end to the selection for lack of means. Seventeen youth organisations launched an appeal yesterday against this selection. Finally, the problem of student insecurity is not properly addressed. Too many young people find themselves in a difficult material and moral situation, forced to work to finance their studies, which endangers their success. We therefore propose, once again, the establishment of a real autonomy allowance for all students, guaranteeing them a material comfort favourable to the success of their studies. We also want to strengthen the resources dedicated to academic works. I am thinking in particular of the interest for the students of life on a campus where tutoring and self-help are facilitated. Minister, this budget does not give the university the means of success for all and so will the MPs of the GDR Group not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u205	Mrs Cécile Rilhac, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u206	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the budget you are proposing for higher education and research meets a real expectation and stated objectives: the success of each student in the higher education system, the development of university autonomy and support for student life. This budget comes at a time when the university's situation is becoming increasingly difficult. Our higher education and research system faces a dual challenge: excellence in training, occupational integration and social mobility, and excellence in basic research and innovation. We must empower actors on the ground to meet these challenges. And that budget is the guarantee. With almost €27.4 billion, the funding of the research and higher education mission for 2018 is up €700 million. This is one of the most important tasks of the State budget. Some will always say that these efforts will not satisfy all the needs, but as my fellow rapporteurs have pointed out, this budget is sincere. It thus put an end to certain systematic drifts such as, for example, the undervaluation of the effects of old age-technical slide – the famous GVT – on the wage bill. Our colleagues Pierre Henriet and Danièle Hérin point out in their report for notice the decrease in the research budget by 0.3 points between the original 2012 and 2017 finance laws. Despite this decline, France has managed to maintain itself among the world's first nations. However, its position is increasingly fragile. In 2015, France is now the seventh largest publication in scientific journals in the world and has already been surpassed in this area by two emerging economies, China and India. With more than EUR 500 million, this budget helps to strengthen research resources. As I recall here, research funding has a major impact on the employment economy and remains a source of French competitiveness. This choice translates into an increase in funding for research organisations, a contribution to international organisations and support for innovation. I see it, for my part, as an advocacy for the future and for the scientific influence of France in the world. The increase in funds, which is a real risk-taking exercise, reflects a proactive policy on the part of the Government aimed at youth and the future. With regard to higher education, the Government is providing almost €200 million in additional funding. It is a strong marker of support for our university system. You will forgive me for some repetitions, but when the decisions are positive, they deserve to be repeated. In recent months, we have highlighted all the limitations of our procedure for access to higher education, which is now embodied, in the minds of all, by the PDB platform. I'd like to go back to the Student Plan, introduced a few days ago. This is an ambitious global plan, which gives itself the means of the challenge it intends to meet: to support and foster the success of each student. Characterized by the drawing of lots, an extremely high degree failure rate, an increased precariousness of students, the system, at the end of the breath, was well worth such a plan. The reform will make the assignments of bachelors fairer and more effective. It was all the more necessary in the context of demographic tension and saturation of the absorption capacities of the system we know. The plan is part of a logic of improving student life by giving priority to two areas: housing and student health. Before concluding, Madam Minister, I welcome your vision for higher education, which aims to enable everyone, regardless of their social background, to express their talents and to restore the necessary confidence in the system to young people. I would also like to acknowledge the important collaborative work carried out jointly by your teams and those of the Ministry of National Education, in order to make the bridge between secondary and higher education more effective. As head of school, I know the importance of guidance not only for students but also for parents. As Members, it is our duty to ensure that our universities continue to play their role as social elevators, to which we are all on those benches, I think, attached. The purpose of university cycles must remain employment. The success of our students, the professional integration of our young graduates, the quality of our research, the competitiveness of our country, and our place in the world are at stake. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The La République en marche group will vote with conviction and enthusiasm for the 2018 research and higher education budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u207	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u208	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the research and higher education mission is rightly one of the most important tasks of the state budget. If the school is the place where the fundamentals are acquired, higher education must enable everyone to find their own way to work. For many, it is a promise, for some, less armed, it can be a dead end. Inequality of access to university, the rate of young people leaving school without a diploma, and the adaptation of training to future courses are all major concerns in order to bring about the profound transformation of our country. The quality of our higher education and the excellence of our researchers contribute to our intellectual influence and attractiveness. More importantly, advances in research and technological innovation are one of the conditions for our competitiveness and our country's return to sustainable, environmentally sustainable and inclusive growth. In this regard, we welcome the 2.6 per cent increase in the Mission's appropriations to EUR 24.5 billion for 2018, an increase of 700 million over the initial finance law for 2017. This increase reflects the government's commitment to student success, but also to major research projects, as part of the Major Investment Plan. The path of raising the Mission's appropriations to EUR 28 billion by 2020 reinforces a strong commitment to change. Beyond strengthening budgetary resources, the Constructive Group shares the Government's vision. Last September, more than 4000 high school students, registered on the APB platform and having fully completed their wish list, were still without assignment. The announced end of this system is a measure of common sense and of general interest. The elimination of the drawing of lots in the tensioned chains, the most unjust procedure, is also good news. Nevertheless, I measure the complexity of the implementation of this reform, which is based on the ability of universities to develop tailor-made support schemes as quickly as possible during 2018. The personalized accompaniment of high school students represents another challenge, a major challenge to succeed in the transformation of the French guidance system. We need to make guidance much more concrete and real-life-based so that high school students can project themselves into the reality of a course of study and its opportunities. This challenge, which you will meet with the Minister of Education, will force us collectively to change software. I would also like to refer to the challenge for our country of establishing a major scientific centre of global importance. This is the ambition of Paris-Saclay as an academic and research centre of excellence. There is something to be proud of its 11,000 teachers-researchers, 76,000 students and 400 patents per year, which represents 20% of the French research potential. However, due to the complexity of the rapprochement of the 20 or so establishments concerned and the persistent reluctance to merge into a common model, this pole still does not have the international visibility it deserves. The choice of the President of the Republic to propose two complementary poles, with, on the one hand, Paris-Saclay University, and on the other, an alliance of great schools, can be a solution to overcome the impasse. In addition, the sustainable success of this scientific centre also depends on its opening up and opening up to the world in terms of mobility. The timely completion of line 18 of the Grand Paris Express, which must connect Orly airport to Versailles and serve Saclay, is decisive – you know that this is one of my Dadas, Madam Minister. Our country is a candidate to host the 2025 Universal Exhibition on the Saclay Plateau site. It would be an exceptional showcase for French research and innovation. Minister, we trust you to succeed in this challenge as well. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The Les Constructifs group will vote for the "Research and Higher Education" mission and wish you courage and success.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u209	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-10-O1049.u210	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2018: further to the review of the appropriations of the mission "Research and higher education"; Review of the appropriations of the Official Development Assistance Mission. The meeting is adjourned.
