ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to solidarity, integration and equal opportunities (No 273, Annex 41; No 276, Volume II). The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u3	Madam President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the special rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, the draftswoman for opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you this evening the budget for the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities" set out in the draft finance law for 2018. This budget reflects a bias and a priority. The bias is that of budgetary sincerity, which is a prerequisite for effective public action and clear political choices. The priority is to help our most fragile citizens, an expression of national solidarity. The appropriations for this mission are mainly devoted to the financing of aid schemes for the most disadvantaged populations, with the Ministry's means of operation accounting for less than 8% of the total. These funds are divided into four programmes: programme 304, "Social inclusion and protection of persons"; Program 157, "Disability and addiction"; Programme 137, "Equality between women and men"; Programme 124, "The conduct and support of health, social, sport, youth and associative life policies". The Mission's budget will increase by €1.5 billion in 2018, an increase of more than 8.7% over 2017. This considerable effort is mainly aimed at the beneficiaries of the activity allowance and the allowance for adults with disabilities, the AAH. It is in addition, I recall, to the revalorisation of the minimum old age provided for by the draft law on the financing of social security: 30 euros from 1 April 2018, then 35 euros on 1 January 2019 and again 35 euros on 1 January 2020, i.e., in total, 100 euros more each month. The budget for the 157 "Disability and dependency" programme is increased to EUR 11.34 billion, an increase of 6.9% between 2017 and 2018. This substantial increase reflects, in particular, the fulfilment of the commitment made by the President of the Republic to upgrade the AAH. In order to combat the poverty suffered by people due to their disability, which restricts access to work, the monthly amount of the allowance will be adjusted exceptionally, in two stages: in November 2018, the full rate of assistance will increase to 860 euros; At the end of 2019, the monthly allowance will be increased to 900 euros. In addition, this programme contributes to the employment assistance of disabled people, whether they work in ordinary or sheltered environments – in this case, support is provided through the guarantee of remuneration for disabled workers working in ESATs, institutions and services of support through work, the total amount of which is EUR 1.34 billion. In this respect, the accompanying employment scheme, launched on an experimental basis in 2017 in twelve regions, will be continued in 2018. Its aim is to facilitate the employment of persons with disabilities in the ordinary environment through medical and social support and support for occupational integration, as well as the support of their employers. This is emblematic of the inclusive shift promoted by my colleague Sophie Cluzel. We must make every effort to support people with disabilities in their daily lives and in their access to autonomy, at the heart of the city: to include and not to relegate; living together and not separately in closed worlds. With regard to programme 304, I would first like to mention the increase in the activity premium. As you know, for more than 2.5 million households with modest resources, it is an important income supplement – almost 160 euros per month on average – with the average amount of resources of the beneficiary households being in the order of 1050 euros. It also contributes significantly to work paying, as is sometimes said in a shortened manner. In accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, the activity premium will increase by 20 euros from 1 October 2018. The increase will concern the flat-rate part of the premium, so as to restore a logical continuity of the scale of this premium with the RSA, the active solidarity income. I would like to recall that the increase in 2018 will complement a second measure favourable to purchasing power: the abolition of unemployment and sickness contributions in return for the increase in the CSG, which, for example, for a person paid at the SMIC, will result in an increase in purchasing power of 132 euros from 2018 and 263 euros per year when the measure is fully increased. Moreover, this increase in the activity premium is only the first step in an increase which will continue in the following years to raise the increase in the activity premium to EUR 80, at the level of the SMIC. In 2018, €5.1 billion will be spent on the business bonus, an increase of 16% compared to 2017. This increase fully takes into account the trend of the premium, and this is where the sincerity effort is taking place since, as the Court of Auditors had noted, the appropriations entered in the Finance Act for 2017 were insufficient to finance the scheme. Of course, this increase also takes into account the upgrading of the lump sum amount, amounting to €240 billion in 2018. The very strong increase in appropriations is accompanied by measures to moderate its budgetary impact. I say clearly that these do not call into question the overall saving of the premium or the favourable effect of the provisions adopted for the beneficiaries. Also under programme 304, the bias of sincerity also leads the Government to propose a very substantial increase in funding for unaccompanied minors. On this important and sensitive issue, the commitments of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister are very clear: the State must do more and better to welcome isolated foreign minors and assist the departments in this mission. The number of minors taken over by departmental councils has increased significantly, resulting in saturation of the devices and an increasing cost for departments. However, even though child protection falls within the competence of the departments, the State has a strong responsibility in this area, through its dual competence in the conduct of migration policy and in the protection of children exercised by the judicial authority. In addition, in view of the disparities between departments, national harmonization of the conditions for assessing the situation of applicants is necessary. This is why the Prime Minister, together with Mr Dominique Bussereau, President of the Assembly of the French Departments, launched an expert mission to identify operational solutions to improve the efficiency, coherence and budgetary sustainability of the assessment and shelter phase for unaccompanied minors. As of 2018, the State's commitment will result in a very significant reinforcement of the means, which will increase from 15 million euros in the initial finance law for 2017 to 132 million euros in the draft finance law for 2018. Attention to the financial situation of the departments is also reflected in the renewal of the funding of the Fund in support of integration policies, the FAPI, which will be endowed with 50 million euros, as in 2017. This fund supports departmental expenditure on behalf of those furthest from employment. We began to exchange, within the framework of the National Conference of Territories, on the financing of individual solidarity allowances, including the RSA. On 20 October, the Prime Minister launched a general reflection on the piloting and financing of these allocations, which will provide an opportunity to examine the desirability of maintaining this fund beyond 2018. I'm going to Program 137. Through its stakes and objectives, the policy of women's rights and equality between women and men contributes to the policy of social inclusion, which aims to enable every citizen to participate fully in the life of society, including through employment. Equality between women and men has been declared a major national cause for the duration of the quinquennium. It enjoys a strong commitment throughout the country. It mobilizes the Government as a whole, in a resolute inter-ministerial approach, on the three priority areas of promoting professional equality and reconciling life-times, combating all forms of gender-based and sexual violence and gender-based violence, and the exemplary nature of the State through the effectiveness of ministerial and inter-ministerial equality policies. The total allocation for actions identified in the cross-cutting policy document will increase from 2017, to close to €420 million. At the end of the Tour de France de l'égalité, next March, the President of the Republic will convene an interministerial committee and validate a government programme, which will be implemented until the end of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u4	We must consider concluding, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u5	So I'm going to sum up what I'm saying. The appropriations under the 137 programme "Equality between women and men" are up 8 per cent compared to the initial finance law for 2017. It's a sincere budget. I would also point out that the overall level of subsidies to associations is maintained, fully preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u6	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u7	Program 124 "Construction and Support of Health, Social, Sport, Youth and Associative Life Policies" covers 18276 central government jobs, deconcentrated departments of the Ministry and regional health agencies. The wage bill will evolve, with a reduction in the number of public jobs outside the priority ministerial departments. As a result, the Ministry of Health will be subject to downsizing. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the budget we are presenting to you is rigorous in its preparation and sincere. With this budget, we make choices, for the benefit of the most fragile people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u8	Mrs Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u9	Madam President – I welcome you at this first sitting under your authority – the Minister, the Secretary of State to the Prime Minister responsible for persons with disabilities, the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" is carried out by three ministries and consists of four programmes: the 304 programme "Social inclusion and protection of persons"; Programme 157 "Disability and addiction"; Programme 137 "Equality between women and men"; Programme 124 "The conduct and support of health, social, sport, youth and associative life policies". The Government has taken on its responsibilities: the Mission's budget, up almost 1.6 billion euros from last year, will reach 19.2 billion euros in 2018. I welcome this effort, which puts an end to significant under-budgeting. Moreover, this mission has a strong and ambitious political budget, based on three main principles. To encourage, first of all, more support for the resumption of activity and those who receive a small wage. Thus, the maximum flat-rate amount of the business premium will be adjusted by €20 in October 2018, with €5.1 billion planned for this purpose. In addition, the Integration Policy Support Fund, set up in 2017 to support departments, will, on an exceptional basis, have an additional €50 million. Then protect, because we need to strengthen the autonomy of people with disabilities, who are in a situation. The amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities, the AAH, will be increased from 811 to 860 euros on 1 November 2018 and raised to 900 euros on 1 November 2019. These adjustments will represent the equivalent of a thirteenth month for the beneficiaries of the AAH; over the duration of the quinquennium, EUR 2.5 billion will be spent on them. The Prime Minister said, as I recall, that the inclusion of persons with disabilities is one of the priorities of the quinquennium. Protecting persons with disabilities means not only fully including them in society and the labour market, but also continuing to provide support for the State's position in ESATs, institutions and services of help through work. Finally, to encourage, protect and empower, because, after years of under-implementation, the 137 programme "Equality between women and men" reaches nearly 30 million euros. This is the highest budget ever achieved for this program. This budget will be sanctified over the next five years: the Government has made equality between women and men the major national cause of the quinquennium, and this is relevant in the light of recent scandals of sexual harassment. This mission has been enriched by our discussions with the Government. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State, who responded to the questions raised in the enlarged committee. I have heard the commitments made there and will be attentive to their legislative or regulatory translations. This attention will focus, on the one hand, on the AAH. The Government is considering amending the resource limit for obtaining the AHA for couples. If this measure does not make any losers in 2018, given the significant increase in this benefit, you have declared, Madam Secretary of State, that you are in favour of a smoothing scheme and you intend to submit a report on this to Parliament next year; I appreciate your commitment. On the other hand, this attention will focus on the legal protection of adults. Minister, the Government is planning to amend the scale of the majors' own coverage of their protective measures, with a view to increasing their contribution. I can understand that a total exemption for majors receiving revenues between the AAH and the SMIC is not possible for reasons of budgetary sustainability. However, it seems to me essential to ensure, as you have confirmed to me in the enlarged committee, that a scale is drawn up "as fair as possible, by distributing the burden fairly" between the lowest and the highest incomes. In addition, the reception of unaccompanied minors requires a renewed dialogue between the State and local and regional authorities. In this regard, I wish to emphasize the increased commitment of the State to departments for the assessment and protection of these minors. Behind an eminently social budget mission are societal considerations and often terrible human realities. Finally, I hope that programme 124 will no longer be a variable for budgetary adjustment but will become a fully-fledged programme, valued as such in the budgetary debates. I intend to devote part of my special report next year. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that the budget does not stop at its adoption. I will pay particular attention to the monitoring of the implementation of the appropriations voted and to the evaluation. I have no doubt, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, that we will be able to work together, as we have done in the preparation of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u10	Mrs Delphine Bagarry, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u11	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, the Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the planned increase of EUR 4 billion in the three years of the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission reflects the desire for a genuine policy to combat poverty, a policy to protect vulnerable families, a policy to prevent the risks of exclusion, a policy that aims to build an ever more inclusive society, more solidarity and more attention to the more precarious, a society where equality between women and men will no longer be a chimera. I will not dwell on all the programmes which decline this political will, and which the Special Rapporteur, Mrs Stella Dupont, has detailed the appropriations for 2018. I would like to draw your attention to the appropriations for the reception and guidance of foreign unaccompanied minors included in programme 304, multiplied by eight between 2017 and 2018, which are intended to reimburse and assist the departments responsible for the care of unaccompanied minors. In the course of the hearings, it became clear that this subject was more than just a budget opinion. It appeared that a new organization was needed, with greater involvement of the State. This is not only a financial contribution but also a need to adapt the initial emergency care, which concerns the protection and social assessment of minorities and isolation. I have heard a real distress from the various actors involved in the accompaniment of isolated minors. I heard first of all the distress of the departments, which are not only unable to bear the costs, but also experiencing the saturation of their child protection services and their accommodation capacities. I have also heard the distress of social workers, who do not have uniform training and do not have the time to properly assess children who are often at risk and destabilising, with necessarily health, physical and psychological consequences. Finally, I have heard the distress of the State services, the judicial services, which must defend the right of children to be protected and the right of refugees seeking asylum, who have the duty to restore civil status, the duty to guarantee justice, the duty to account for possible fraud or abuse and, above all, a duty of humanity and fair treatment throughout France. As I said in the enlarged committee, I have heard many criticisms and, more importantly, warnings. Critics urge the Government not to allow departments to assess young foreigners alone without a civil status. Warnings are exhortations that they should not be regarded as illegal migrants and that they should not be excluded from the ordinary law of child protection. In fact, foreign minors have come to the authorities more massively in recent months, and they have moved from a status of presumption of minority to a status of suspicion of majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u12	Most of them are major!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u13	This change of position is the cause of many malaise. You announced in an enlarged committee, Mrs Buzyn, that the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – the IGAS – and the Assembly of the French Departments had the task of making proposals so that the State would take its full part in the system of assessment and shelter before the recognition of the minority. You have confirmed to us that it is planned that the State will make a greater financial commitment to the departments. But, as I said in the preamble, the problem raised is not only financial: the State has a moral responsibility. I have drawn up a number of points of reflection in my report for an opinion, and I will follow closely the implementation of the proposals emanating from the above-mentioned mission, in particular: closer cooperation between the various stakeholders, whether for the reconstruction of identity or the facilitation of the exercise of the right to work for apprentices and the obtaining of residence permits for the majority of children covered by social assistance for children; the harmonization of practices for minority and isolation assessments, and the completion of bone tests used for the determination of the minority, which are too criticized, both scientifically and ethically; the priority of health, physical and psychological care; Finally, the homogenisation of socio-educational accompaniment, which must not be made at the discount. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] It is through the discussion and the dismantling of the actors that we can blow the locks that lock us today in a shared evil. In any case, I want us to be proud to be part of a welcoming country that protects and enables children to become responsible and happy adults to live.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u15	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Gilles Lurton, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u16	Madam President – I am pleased to welcome your first sitting presidency – the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, the Special Rapporteur, the rapporteur for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, with the budget for the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities", we touch at the heart of the lives of French and French people, of those who suffer from precariousness, lack of integration or refusal to integrate, of those whom we meet every day in our constituencies. That is the importance of the subject; That is also to say, how great are our responsibilities to the Republic. At the outset, I want to say to you, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, that we agree with the upgrading of the allowance for adults with disabilities, which is the most important measure in your budget proposal. I will return to that, but first of all I would like to point out that the appropriations for this mission, in its entirety, are on the increase, which we can only welcome, in these periods of restrictions. This draft budget, however, calls for a few comments. First of all, with regard to RSA and the reception of isolated minors, many departments continue to face significant increases in expenditure and are in favour of real compensation. As far as the RSA is concerned, the state now pays 57% of what it owes to the departments, out of an expenditure of more than 10 billion euros. With regard to isolated minors, I have noted your commitment to earmark EUR 132 million for them. The effort must be stressed, but we remain far from the burden borne by the departments, both in financial matters and in all matters concerning the very important material difficulties connected with the reception of these minors. I am thinking of their medical situation, of their refusal, for many, to respect the conditions of care, and of the problems of delinquency that this can create in the big cities. We cannot close our eyes to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u18	The President of the Republic has chosen to make equality between women and men a major national cause, and we have noted your commitment to fully consume the €30 million budget devoted to it this year. The main point of this budget therefore remains your choice to upgrade the allowance for adults with disabilities from 810 euros to 900 euros per month. This choice is in line with your commitments, even if we remain vigilant about the situation of couples. On this subject, I asked you during the questions to the Government, Madam Minister, and I also spoke in an enlarged committee: drawing lessons from these questions, you replied that you were working on a smoothing so that no couple would lose. We are still waiting for explanations. The associations have seized the Prime Minister as early as September, and I am pleased to hear that the Prime Minister will respond shortly. We maintain that the increase in the widespread social contribution will penalise family caregivers. During the debate on the PLFSS – the Social Security Funding Bill – the Minister of Action and Public Accounts undertook to review this situation. We are still waiting for answers. Finally, despite your explanations in committee, we continue to fail to understand that the activity premium will no longer be available to persons covered by annuities under the occupational accidents and diseases scheme. Making political choices also means accepting that no one is losing. At the current stage of the finance bill, this is not the case, at least in this area. You want to develop an inclusive policy, to which we all adhere. But we also believe that particular attention should be paid to the most difficult situations, for which we know that this inclusion will not always be possible. Madam Minister, while I share the broad guidelines of the President of the Republic on policy for persons with disabilities, one point is to worry and worry also about the associations of parents of disabled children, who have worked hard to build a network of institutions specializing in the care of their children who have become adults and, for many today, ageing disabled people. The President proposed to "accelerate the transformation of the social, medico-social and health supply so as to allow a rapid and far-reaching shift in favour of specialized accompaniment, if necessary, in the ordinary environment". I do not wish, for my part, that what was built by the families themselves – I am thinking of the ESATs, the homes of life and all the structures that accommodate people who are often heavily disabled – will tomorrow be destroyed, when, as you know, the minister, these institutions urgently need new places, and that we will have to put the means there tomorrow. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR, REM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, with regard to disability, you will find at your side, whenever it is necessary to improve the situation of persons with disabilities, to move towards more autonomy while ensuring the necessary compensation for any situation of disability, provided that you remain particularly vigilant with regard to the situation of each person, as much as this policy needs to be individualized. Subject to this reservation, and subject to your answers to our questions, the Republican Group could vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u19	The next speaker is Mr Brahim Hammouche, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u20	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, the Special Rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen in your ranks and qualities, "poverty is not chosen, but it can be kept," says Albert Camus. In France, there are nearly 9 million poor, or 14 per cent of the population, of whom almost 20 per cent are under the age of 18 and nearly 36 per cent belong to single-parent families. Already in 2012, a study by INSEE indicated that in five years, one third of French people had been affected by poverty: a third, therefore, had suffered a violation of their fundamental human rights with equal dignity, both individual and collective; A third has gone through this internal exile that separates millions of men from their own country. Point of equality and freedom without fraternity, this mutual respect of all, this active republican solidarity that allows us to emerge from the outrageous misery of the world! With €19.2 billion in funding, the budget of the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission, which is almost 8.6% higher than in 2017, affirms our mutual responsibility to fight poverty and social cohesion. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, which brings together social democrats, endorses the two logics behind it. First, it perpetuates and deepens social justice and equality measures, which we welcome. I will refer mainly to the increase in the activity premium to support the purchasing power of the poor workers: 2.6 million households, of which more than 15% of people aged 18 to 24, who currently receive an average of 160 euros of activity premium, will see this amount increase to 80 euros per month during the quinquennium. This quinquennium will therefore be that of purchasing power. This approach also concerns aid to the integration policies of the departments, with the exceptional allocation of EUR 50 million and EUR 143 million of payment appropriations granted to cover, on an exceptional basis, part of the additional costs of ESA, social assistance for children. Finally, this budget sanctuates the appropriations for gender equality to finance, inter alia, actions to promote rights or to prevent and combat sexual and gender-based violence. Secondly, this budgetary exercise lays the foundations for a convergence of social minimums from the top, which we wish to encourage. It aims to ensure that no one in France lives below the poverty line. We are pleased to have been heard on a number of points of vigilance raised in the enlarged committee, which has, in particular, prevented any breach of rights as a result of the modification of the resource limit taken into account for the calculation of the couples' AHA. Thus, the AAH, which will benefit 1.1 million people, will be upgraded to 860 euros on 1 November 2018 and 900 euros in 2019, an effort of 2 billion euros over the duration of the quinquennium. At a full rate, the amount will be equal to the minimum old age figure, which will reach €903 in 2020. In addition, the rights of the beneficiaries of the additional resources abolished in 2019 will be maintained. However, our group, in favour of the single social payment, believes that the fight against non-recourse rates to social benefits is a sine qua non for solidarity. By way of amendment, we therefore call for the Government to reconsider the abolition of the benefit of the activity premium for employees in receipt of an accident or occupational disease pension, or an invalidity pension, on the grounds that the rate of recourse is too low. We believe that public information measures should be undertaken in advance before any adjustments can be considered. As you know, our group certainly intends to weigh on the budget debates and renew the exercise in order to be fully involved. With this in mind, I would like to open two avenues for reflection. The first concerns the issue of disability and, more broadly, how our obsession with standards and standardization leads to exclusion. This is particularly true for disability-related policies, which fail to transform our gaze on disability, reducing the other to its deficit, incapacity or incapacity. I therefore believe that it is necessary to dare to change the paradigm and to encourage the convergence of specific arrangements, particularly financial ones. [[Applause on several benches of MODEM and REM groups]] Another subject that is of particular interest to me is the fight against ill-treatment of people in fragile situations. It is not so much a question of inventing a policy of well-contracting or pretending to teach caregivers and caregivers benevolence, when they are already exhausted psychologically and physically, but of understanding, from a systemic point of view, how these governances produce this cost of abuse. It is a question of establishing beacons of rescue of meaning, by laying down at every moment the human question, from conception to evaluation of public policies, involving at every stage practitioners, users and citizens, for a real humanist approach, that is to say to put man at the centre of our practices, in any case for a person-centred approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u21	Sophie Auconie, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u22	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, Special Rapporteur, draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission reports on the public effort to combat poverty, reduce inequalities and protect the most vulnerable. The State's commitment to these specific audiences reflects the special solidarity that our society owes to the poorest. As such, we welcome the increase in funding for this mission in the 2018 Finance Bill. Its appropriations are, I repeat, increased to 19.2 billion, an increase of 1.6 billion compared to the initial finance law for 2017. Similarly, the increase in the projected budget allocated to the Mission in 2019 and 2020, which will bring the total appropriation to 21.5 billion in two years' time, is in the right direction. We also welcome the increase in the allocation for the allowance for adults with disabilities, which will increase to €860 at the end of 2018 – an increase of 7.5% – and €900 in 2019. However, two other measures severely mitigate or even reverse the increase in the AAH for almost 300,000 people, i.e. about one third of the beneficiaries: the freezing of the resource ceiling which will inevitably lead to the alignment of the rules for taking into account the income of a couple benefiting from the AAH with that of a couple benefiting from the RSA; the removal of the guarantee of resources for persons with disabilities. Far from resembling other social minima, the AAH must retain its specificity and not see, as announced, a downward merger of its complements, under penalty of depriving many beneficiaries of at least 75 euros per month, while they already live below the poverty line. The activity premium will also benefit from €780 million in additional funding for 2018, due to the dynamism of the rate of use of this benefit, which benefits 2.5 million households per month, and due to its upgrading, announced from October 2018. We welcome these measures, which will help to improve the purchasing power of our modest citizens. However, we regret the abolition of the measure which allows employees who receive an invalidity pension or an accident at work or occupational disease pension to receive the work premium. We have heard the explanations given on this subject in the enlarged committee, in particular the fact that this is a derogation introduced by the law of 8 August 2016 and contrary to the original logic. However, this removal is a bad signal to all people with disabilities, and we regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u24	It would have been preferable to increase information policies to these audiences in order to reduce the rate of non-use. Finally, all disability measures could be usefully complemented by better account being taken of the situation of family caregivers for dependent persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u25	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u26	This is the meaning of the bill to extend the scheme of donations of days of rest not taken to family caregivers, which we will submit to the national representation on 7 December next, on the occasion of the parliamentary initiative of the Constructive Group. That day, Madam Minister, we will need you to listen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons I have mentioned, the Constructive Group will abstain from the appropriations of the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u27	The next speaker is Mrs Ericka Bareigts, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u28	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, the Special Rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, although this mission is experiencing an increase of EUR 1.5 billion, we cannot, however, evacuate discreet shots of planing or even real blind spots. The New Left Group has told you that and you have acknowledged that there are indeed some problems. First of all, we would like to mention the upgrading of the allowance for adults with disabilities, which will not apply to couples since you choose to bring the rules closer to those of the RSA, in the name of a logic of equity that remains to be demonstrated. You promised a smoothing measure: how? When? For whom? Madam Minister, I read to you, in this House, in questions to the Government, Thomas's letter, an adult with a disability who is wrong to live as a couple: "I do not want to find myself as a burden to the person I love. Can we really accept such a setback for people with disabilities? On what basis is a couple eligible for the AAH closer to a couple who perceive the RSA? This is not only a budgetary issue but a real matter of substance. With regard to family caregivers, who are about to receive the highest rate of CSG as of January 1, following my inquiry and that of Gilles Lurton, the Minister of Public Action and Accounts acknowledged that, in his own words, there was "an error, in any case an injustice", and promised that a solution would be presented in a new reading. Be aware that we, like the associations, will be particularly vigilant on this point. In the downward merger of the two complements of the AAH, which will cause people already living below the poverty line to lose 75 to 179 euros a month, you see simplification, when we see impoverishment there. I would also like to raise an issue that is dear to me, of particular gravity. This is the tragedy that bereaved the island of La Réunion less than fifteen days ago. On 28 October last Corinne, forty-two years old, mother of two children, died under the blows of her spouse. She was in divorce proceedings. He hit her with loudspeakers, smashing her in the cranial box. Since the beginning of 2017, on Reunion Island alone, Ariette, Jessie, Nicole, Suzanne and now Corinne: five women have been killed by their spouses. And it's only November! We deplore a "femicide" every two months. We live in a country where every three days a woman is murdered by her spouse. We live in a country where almost nine women are raped every hour, more than 200 a day. We live in a country where sexual harassment is a daily reality for too many of us. In view of these overwhelming figures, it is the responsibility of the entire political class to do everything possible to ensure that, as soon as possible, no woman is subjected to violence. In this way, we fully support the great five-year cause of gender equality. Similarly, during the review of the next law on sexual violence, the New Left Group will be at the meeting. However, when setbacks are to be regretted, we must stress them because they will have serious consequences for our fellow citizens. In this way, we deeply regret that the budget dedicated to equality between women and men is declining in 2018. The increase is due only to a pass-through: the appropriations for the information, counselling and family counselling institutions previously attached to the 304 "Social Inclusion" programme were transferred to the same level as for Action 12 of the programme. The 2.8 million envelope explains the artificial increase. Without this pass-by, the program would be down, given budget inflation. Almost all of the programme's actions are in decline, including the action "Prevention and fight against prostitution and trafficking in human beings", which is losing 1.8 million euros, which is a cause for concern. We are assured that the budget dedicated to gender equality will be fully implemented in 2018. What assurances do we have? As we see, in some territories, a decline in the mobilization of local authorities in favour of this cause and the aided contracts will fall drastically in the course of 2018, associations are likely to be very weakened in their ability to mobilize funding. This is a very serious issue, if not one of the most serious in our country. How can we accept a reduction in funding for equality between women and men, even when women's voices are freed, which calls for us to redouble our efforts? These concerns are particularly acute.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u29	Please conclude, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u30	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] For all these reasons, the New Left Group will vote against the budgets of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u31	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u32	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we have looked with interest at this mission. You know our special commitment to solidarity. Whether this mission is among the only ones whose means are not drastically reduced, it can be considered good news.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u33	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u34	You are increasing the allowance for adults with disabilities – below what we planned in our program, but you are increasing it anyway. You are increasing the activity premium, which is the result of the merger in 2016 of the employment premium and the RSA activity, but you should look, Madam Minister, at the massive phenomenon of non-recourse: more than a third of the people entitled to the RSA base do not benefit from it. Organize the accompaniment of these people and the automaticity of the payments of the RSA! Make sure that our fellow citizens can make use of their rights! A study recently published by the Catholic Relief should open your eyes, Madam Minister. It should also silence the despicable who keep talking about assistance, as if the income of solidarity were not social rights, as if living with them was paradise. To the benches on my right, to those who think that and only have the words "social fraud" in their mouth, I say: go live with 545 euros a month!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u36	We didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u37	These contemptuous people, whose words hurt more than anything, would do well to know. The amount of the alleged social fraud at the RSA is estimated at 170 million euros per year; non-recourse amounts to EUR 5.3 billion which is not claimed. Similarly, the EUR 170 million of fraud at the RSA seems ridiculous when compared to the EUR 80 billion that tax fraud costs us every year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u39	Solidarity in our Republic is not an option. It must not be possible to avoid it so easily. That your government enforces the law, that it pays those who, because of their lack of civic sense, must be held personally responsible when a maternity is closed and a childbirth goes wrong, when people die of cold on the street because there are too few places in emergency accommodation, when someone gives up on care because it's going to cost him too much! It is too easy to think that the national community can be stolen without being held responsible. In reality, without these resources stolen from the State and due to all French and French, the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" is an empty shell. When the tax becomes degressive, when you pay less when you earn more, how do you want it to be granted? We propose a tax reform in which everyone will contribute according to their means so that we can all live according to our needs. I am trying to convince you, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, that solidarity is not just about a mission, a few pages away in a finance bill. It is the spirit of the Social Republic; It should be at the heart of all public policies. When you destroy the labour code, when you remove the consideration of penitibility, when you put the hospital under pressure, as if it could bear more, you create the poverty that you then claim to fight. Stop that hypocrisy! Stop moving in this masked way! The whole country understood this: your bias is to be the party of the rich. When you say "solidarity," you think "charity." You are the conscience of those who want to ignore how much poverty is gaining in this country. Solidarity, Madam Minister, is the sharing of wealth; It is not the abolition of the solidarity tax on capital or the reduction of the capital tax. All over the world, brutal policies refer to the private sphere alone the questions of concrete solidarity, education for citizenship, the environment and equality. By removing thousands of assisted contracts, you put many associations in trouble and liquidate the federations and equipment of the world of popular education. As for the great national cause that you have declared about equality between women and men, we do not allow ourselves to be abused. In the last budget cut in July, the State Secretariat for Gender Equality lost 30 per cent of its budget. The latter increases in 2018 by a derisory sum of 450,000 euros. At a time when the talk about harassment and sexual assault is breaking free, France is committing less than 30 million euros to promote equality – peanuts in terms of the stakes, while Spain spends three times as much as Canada, according to the number of inhabitants. And what a surprise to see that you are undressing Paul to dress Peter, especially by lowering the budget allocated to the fight against trafficking in human beings! In addition, beyond the budget itself, the Higher Council for Occupational Equality between Women and Men has pointed to the decline in the number of ordinances reforming the Labour Code for women's rights. I am thinking in particular of the increased precariousness of women, who are already overrepresented in part-time jobs and CSDs, or the risk of increased gender-based and sexual violence due to the disappearance of CHSCTs, health, safety and working conditions committees. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Protests on the benches of the REM group]] The policies that you propose in this budget run counter to our society project. You will increase poverty and inequality, continue to place particular emphasis on women and not actively combat gender-based violence. We will not let you, with these few measures, have the quiet smile of the powerful who believe that their tricks have abused the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u40	It's disgusting!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u41	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u42	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u43	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Special Rapporteur, rapporteur for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, how many poor people do we need to create a handful of ultra-rich people? Today, 9 million French and French people live below the poverty line, with less than 1015 euros per month, and the poorest are increasingly poor. According to the latest survey of the Catholic Relief, which was carried out last week, 40 per cent of those interviewed who were entitled to the RSA did not apply for it. More than one Frenchman in five fails to balance his budget at the end of the month. I could continue to list the figures that show that poverty is growing in our country. So no, the unemployed do not go on vacation in the Bahamas or on any other paradise island, rather trusted, by the times that run, if I believe the press, by other categories of people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u45	Indeed, I cannot help but put these worrying figures in parallel with the billions of euros that some prefer to allow to grow in tax havens. Similarly, how can we not think of the reduction of the solidarity tax on wealth or of any other measures aimed at reducing taxes for the richest? In my view, there is something in this hunt-crossed something indecent and revolting. Even today, as political scientist Paul Ariès asserts: "The era is at the deculpation of the rich and the guilt of the poor. If the wealthiest people benefit from a large budget, the poorest must be content with a small budget. [[Smile]] As you said, Madam Minister, the budget for the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission is increasing by €1.6 billion. This is the result of the adjustment of the allowance for disabled adults and the activity premium. But by one of those tricks that become one of your brands, you reduce the resources allocated to other services. To play the guitar or piano, the right hand must detach what the left hand does; If I dared, I would advise the Government to form an orchestra.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u47	But this is not the place for that! First of all, I would like to stress the situation of the AAH beneficiaries living in a couple. For 230,000 of them, there will be no increase in purchasing power: not only are the couple's incomes not dissociated, but the resource limit applied to the couple is also frozen. To this is added the fusion of the two complements of the AAH, aligned with the weakest of the two. At the end of the quinquennium, this merger would at best result in a purchasing power gain of 15 euros, at worst a loss of 90 euros per month, corresponding to the loss of the guarantee of resources. Furthermore, equality between women and men has rightly been declared a major national cause. Unfortunately, this intention does not find any concrete translation in this budget mission. When you look at it more closely, you're a long way from the point of view. In fact, apart from those allocated to the promotion of rights and the prevention of gender-based violence, the funds allocated to the various schemes are either equivalent to those for 2017, or decreasing. Women's rights associations are asking you for an account: where is the great national cause? I would also like to refer to the worrying situation of isolated minors in our territory. The Government will establish a special regime for unaccompanied young exiles that is governed by the law of foreigners rather than the rules of child protection. Are unaccompanied minors newly arrived in French territory children like the others? International law, specifically the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, answers this question: an exiled minor must be granted "the same protection as any other child permanently or temporarily deprived of his or her family environment for whatever reason".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u49	Your decision is all the more shocking because the situation of isolated minors makes them particularly vulnerable. The budgets announced are far from sufficient to protect these children with already difficult routes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u51	Finally, the budget for this mission highlights your policy of public austerity, since nearly 250 jobs – even more than in previous years – are being eliminated in non-priority ministries. There will therefore be fewer agents to implement social health policies or policies for youth and associative life. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, given the seriousness of the situation, we will not find an answer in a small percentage of budget increase but in a comprehensive approach to the immense social needs in terms of income, social minimums, integration, policies for people with disabilities and the fight against discrimination. In our view, the Government's policy of solidarity is only a fragile alibi.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u53	The next speaker is Mrs Annie Vidal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République) on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u54	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, "the Nation shall ensure to the individual and the family the conditions necessary for their development." This principle enshrined in our Constitution has been undermined for far too long. It must be noted that, despite the policies implemented since 1948 to help the poorest, poverty affects too many people: it currently reaches 14 per cent of the French population, of which 20 per cent are children, and 33 per cent are single-parent families. These figures, which are socially unacceptable, justify targeting our action on those who are most in difficulty. Our policy will focus on preventing the risks of exclusion and combating child poverty, as well as on promoting action to promote occupational integration. It will be carried out in consultation with all relevant stakeholders. Today, a comprehensive child protection policy is even more essential, as the number of poor children increases. It will also target foreign minors. As a reminder, French law grants emergency protection to unaccompanied foreign minors. However, assistance cannot be based primarily on departments. This is why the PLF for 2018 plans to subsidize them more: for example, the State will finance one third of the cost of caring for those admitted to social assistance for children. Moreover, if employment is to combat exclusion, it must provide fair remuneration in order to escape poverty. Even so, the poorest citizens must be encouraged to assert their rights so that, supported by the public integration services, they are at the same time helped to resume their activity. The Government has therefore undertaken to simplify the procedures for obtaining the payment of these allowances and the benefit of such support. The mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" does not end there. Its scope also covers the 12 million French people affected by disability: by allowing them to choose their way of life better and by responding to their needs for social inclusion, we will make our society more inclusive. Furthermore, while gender equality has been declared a major national cause of the quinquennium, we will do our utmost to combat all forms of gender-based and sexual violence and acts. Finally, the food aid policy will be extended over the five-year period, with an envelope of EUR 52 million. The mission consists of four programmes. With regard to social inclusion and the protection of persons, it would be necessary to encourage activity and retention in employment, to improve the identification of children at risk and to ensure that vulnerable adults had legal protection adapted to their needs. With regard to disability and dependency, the question will be, inter alia, to develop the occupational integration of disabled workers and to combat situations of ill-treatment of vulnerable persons. In order to strengthen equality between women and men, we also set ourselves the objective of making a major contribution to the development of professional equality. Finally, regarding the conduct and support of health, social, sport, youth and associative life policies, we will focus on improving the performance and efficiency of the resources involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u55	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u56	It is therefore around coherent objectives that the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" is articulated, a project shared by three ministries: the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the State Secretariat for Persons with Disabilities and the State Secretariat for Equality between Women and Men. The programmes "Disability and dependency" and "Equality between women and men" are characterized by a desire for transversality. The Mission's budget, as provided for in this FLP, is in line with the commitment made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech of 4 July 2017 and provides the necessary appropriations for 2018 and the following two years. It is planned to spend EUR 19.4 billion on this mission, an increase of 8.6%: twice as much as in 2017. This exceptional revalorisation of the allocations, of almost EUR 1.5 billion, reflects, on the one hand, a better budgetary sincerity and, on the other hand, the revalorisation of two benefits: the activity premium and the allowance for adults with disabilities – this revalorisation was included in our presidential programme. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The budget of the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission is therefore that of the commitments made. It is a budget that is sincere and consistent with the policy we want to pursue for the most fragile, vulnerable and vulnerable. That is why we will vote for it. I invite you to follow us so that in the future our nation can provide individuals and families with the conditions necessary for their development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u57	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. The next speaker is Mr Rémi Delatte, on a question from the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u58	Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, first of all I would like to note the increase in the appropriations for this very important mission. Nevertheless, the composition of this budget does not reflect the desired inclusive shift, which our country must take in favour of the inclusion of all people, not just people with disabilities. This can only be done through employment. Therefore, to take this turn, it would have been necessary, at a time when the Government was removing many assisted jobs, to make economic integration the cornerstone of integration and solidarity policies, rather than to relegate them to the "Work and Employment" mission, which is not experiencing a significant recovery this year – in any case, not to the height of the stakes. Yet economic integration enterprises provide relevant answers. They work, they act, thanks to their economic base and their order book. They need greater recognition and support for their economic activity, because their social utility goes beyond employment: they give back a project of life in society to people who are far from it, for a wide variety of reasons. They are really actors of concrete, of reality, who offer jobs in line with the demand of the employment pool where they work. My question is very simple, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State: since it is a good tone to change the world, why not make economic integration the central axis of integration through work? It would be an equal opportunity measure that would better address the inclusive shift.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u59	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u60	I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your question, which falls particularly well, since the European Week for the Employment of People with Disabilities opened today, which will highlight very good practices in this area. You are right to draw our attention to this issue, because almost 500,000 disabled workers are unemployed. They are twice as qualified as the unemployed population among the valid ones. The unemployment rate for persons with disabilities is almost 20 per cent. The employment of disabled people must therefore be a priority, you are absolutely right. To act in their favour, we can operate several levers: first of all, the adapted companies, coming from the ordinary environment; then ordinary enterprises; Finally, the ESAT, i.e. the protected environment. We thus have a whole range of resources for the employment of people with disabilities. What we really need to do is to take people with disabilities to ordinary employment. For this, we have a means of action: accompanied employment. We expect €5 million in 2017 and €5 million in 2018, complemented by funds from AGEFIPH – the Association for the Management of the Fund for the Vocational Integration of the Disabled – and FIPHFP – the Fund for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities in the Public Service, both of which are responsible for collecting contributions from companies that do not meet the objective of employing 6% of people with disabilities. In the private sector, we are 3.5 per cent disabled workers: 30 years after the 6 per cent target was set by the Act of 10 July 1987 for the employment of disabled workers, this is not satisfactory, far from it. We therefore have an important means of action here. We will pay close attention to improving the employment of people with disabilities by supporting not only employees but also companies. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Second means of action: apprenticeship and vocational training. We launched last Friday, with Muriel Pénicaud, Minister of Labour, the great consultation on learning. Only 1% of young people with disabilities are learning. There is therefore a real margin, and we will therefore continue our efforts to improve the employment of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u61	I call Mr Belkhir Belhaddad to speak on a question from the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, the Special Rapporteur, the draftswoman for opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations allocated to this task in the finance bill clearly illustrate the ambitious and balanced nature of the policies that we wish to implement. Not only are we acting to correct the old habit of presenting insidious budgets, with constantly underestimated programmes, but we are also increasing the appropriations for this mission by EUR 1.5 billion. We want to show our attention to the most modest difficulties, not as a bandage, but as a real strategy of social transformation. This budget – which is not displeased by Members of Parliament sitting on benches other than ours – is not simply more sincere, it is also more ambitious and coherent: it reflects the will of the Government and the parliamentary majority to give substance to the republican principle of equality, by activating effective and fair levers. I welcome the Government's willingness to put disability at the centre of public action. In particular, I congratulate him for having managed to place a school life assistant alongside all students with disabilities as soon as they returned to school, when we inherited a situation where even this basic measure was not guaranteed. I wanted to ask you about the unemployment of people with disabilities, to go back to your speech today in the newspaper Les Échos, but you have already answered Mr Delatte on this point. In addition, I would like to know what budgetary provisions are in place to promote the full citizenship of persons with disabilities, in particular in order to encourage their associative engagement, their sports practice, or to make them take a more active part in our political life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u63	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u64	Thank you for your question, honourable Member. I attended the presentation of the French Tech's Handi Tech Trophies, which reward innovation for the inclusion of people with disabilities in society. It is clear that there is a general mobilisation on this subject. I also stress the importance of the large investment plan for a skills society, on which people with disabilities will be able to rely to increase their qualifications, because lack of qualifications is one of the most important determinants of the unemployment rate of people with disabilities. We will also be careful to ensure that people with disabilities are able to claim the resources allocated by the major training plan of 15 billion to their share in the labour force, or 15 per cent. We have also set ambitious targets for the social and sporting participation of persons with disabilities. We are working with Laura Flessel, Minister of Sports, on the participation of all in sport, in sport for all, not only in school but also in medical and social institutions. We are also working with Françoise Nyssen, Minister of Culture, on major projects to promote access for all to culture and above all to stimulate artistic practice, which contributes to the social construction of disabled people and their construction. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Before they are disabled, they must have access to education, sport, health, vocational training and employment. It is this concern that drives us all the time. All public policies need to be irrigated to ensure that each area truly takes into account the specificities of persons with disabilities. For, before they are disabled, they have dreams, ambitions, expectations and the hope of living the most ordinary possible life, in the midst of others, in an inclusive society.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u65	I call the appropriations of the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities", entered in state B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 991.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u66	This is an appeal amendment: the fiscal year is what it is, but we wanted to draw the Government's attention to the revalorisation of the activity premium. As announced, we expected this upgrade to take effect as of January 1, 2018. In fact, it will only take place in October 2018. Those who hoped for this famous thirteenth month will therefore have to wait longer than expected, while other important measures of this finance bill, they will take effect immediately: I am thinking of the increase in the CSG and above all of the gifts to the richest. You have not waited six or eight more months to take action in favour of the richest: they will enter into force immediately. This delay in the revalorisation of the activity premium, this time lag, seems unfair to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u67	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u68	Dear colleague, you have told us that you expect a significant increase in the activity premium. The PLF for 2017 projected an expenditure of €4.34 billion for this social benefit, compared to €5.1 billion in the PLF for 2018, an increase of almost 20%. It seems to me that this is indeed a significant increase. Presidential commitments will be held as early as 2018, it is true at the end of the year, but the lump sum will be adjusted by 20 euros, then the individual bonus will be increased. The creation of the activity bonus was a very good reform of your majority, which was a great success. We are continuing and strengthening this reform. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u69	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1071.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u70	The Government provides for the merger of the two supplements to the allowance for adults with disabilities, namely the supplement for self-employment, amounting to EUR 104.77 per month, and the supplement for resources, amounting to EUR 179.31 per month. This merger would result in alignment with the lowest complement of the two, the increase for autonomous life. As the eligibility criteria for these supplements are different, this merger would at best lead to a purchase power gain of EUR 15 per month at the end of the quinquennium, and at worst a loss of EUR 90 per month, corresponding to the loss of the guarantee of resources, yet a right acquired since 2005. So the beneficiaries will not see their purchasing power increase as you announced. You go even further: you have announced that the additional resources will disappear in 2019. This is unfair. It was unacceptable for the Government to save on already very inadequate allowances for families. In order to limit the impact of this merger on the purchasing power of the beneficiaries, this amendment aims to align the two aid measures with the one of the highest amounts, namely the additional resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u71	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u72	Mr. Congressman, you're one year ahead! You would indeed like to abound the appropriations of the "Disability and Dependence" programme in order to maintain the appropriations devoted to the increase for self-sustaining life and to the supplement of resources. However, for 2018, these two allocations are maintained, together with the related appropriations. The Government is considering the development and merger of these two complements, but this will require a legislative amendment, both of which are provided for by law. It is therefore during the consideration of the 2019 Finance Bill that we will have this debate. I therefore consider that your amendment is, in a way, satisfactory, and I invite you to withdraw it. In the absence of a withdrawal, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u73	On Amendment No 1071, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u74	Same opinion as the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u75	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1071.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u76	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 1072.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u77	Support for the family and social reintegration of former migrants in their countries of origin, ARFS, deserves special attention. However, its budget will be only EUR 1 million for 2018, compared to EUR 10 million for 2017. I would point out that the amount of aid varies between 600 and 6600 euros per year, depending on the applicant's resources. It is less than the amount of the solidarity allowance for the elderly, which for one person alone amounts to EUR 9609 per year, i.e. EUR 801 per month. Today we can estimate the immigrant population over fifty-five years old, the "chibanis", to just over 800,000 people, of whom 355,000 are over sixty-five years old. It is also necessary to implement accompanying measures to assist them in their access to rights. In January 2016, our former colleague Gaby Charroux tabled a bill to improve the living conditions of "chibanis". When are you going to implement it, rather than significantly reducing the budget allocated to them? The decrease in ARFS for 2018 is unjustified and unacceptable. This amendment proposes to maintain its allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u79	On Amendment No 990, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u80	With this amendment, Mr President, you would like to abound with EUR 9 million in assistance for the reintegration of former migrants into their countries of origin. The problem is that only about ten people have asked for the benefit of this allocation. But I allow myself to detail my answer because the subject seems important to me...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u81	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u82	...and your judicious remark. I recall that this aid is recent – introduced in 2016 when it was provided for by law since 2007. It is granted to persons of foreign nationality over sixty-five years of age, living alone with modest resources or residing in the home of migrant workers or in social residence. It takes fifteen years in France to be able to benefit from it. They are essentially aimed at what is called, as you have said, "chibanis". The financial law for 2016 had opened an allocation of 60 million euros for this new aid, as the number of potential beneficiaries was estimated at 35,000. These credits were finally cancelled in the course of the year, due to a lack of applications – it is clear from the documents annexed to the settlement law for 2016, that the benefit has in fact concerned only eight beneficiaries. I think that the question is therefore not an additional abundance since these appropriations would not be spent. The real question is: why are there so few requests? I have not received a reply on this subject in my budget questionnaire and would of course like to hear from the Government on this point. I am not in favour of your amendment, but I undertake to follow this matter closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u84	If one can question the non-use of this advantage by people residing in France and wishing to return to their country of origin, I note that this is not a budgetary issue. The question for the 2018 PLF is: Are we building a sincere budget? If that is the case, we do not need to abound more than the action 18 "Aid for the family and social reintegration of former migrants in their country of origin", since the funds would not be used. The Government was therefore opposed to the amendment, although it was questionable how more people would be able to access the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u85	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u86	Minister, I hear the observation well. This is certainly not a budgetary need, but it is a real subject because these poor people are entitled to benefit from this allowance, which would be very useful to them. These people are sometimes forced to return to our country to receive their retirement, etc. You know the mechanism: if they return permanently to their country of origin, they must maintain a relationship with our nation. The question therefore arises of access to rights for these people: either you are working with your counterparts on the other side of the Mediterranean to enable them to assert their rights as workers who have participated in the creation of wealth at home; you inform them, when they come to our territory, through appropriate communication, that they can receive this assistance. It is because they have earned it that this right exists. It would be good to do this work, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u87	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 990.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u88	The New Left Group does not doubt, Madam Minister, the sincerity of your budget, but, alas, it loses. Thus, in April 2016, our assembly adopted the Socialist Group's bill to strengthen the fight against the prostitution system and to accompany prostitutes. However, you question this scheme by reducing the appropriations allocated to this policy from €6.8 million in 2017 to €5 million in the PLF for 2018. Several associations have published today in the press a forum that denounces this decline. We're relaying their call. As his first signatory, Louis Gallois, wrote: "What does that mean? How can the distress of these tens of thousands of people not be considered a priority? That is why we propose, by this amendment, to restore the appropriations for the essential action of accompaniment and protection of the victims of pimping.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u91	Dear colleague, you recall the law, passed in 2016, aimed at combating the prostitution system. I believe that this is indeed a very good law and I share your concerns about its implementation. However, you cannot blame the government on the basis that the conditions for obtaining financial assistance for social and vocational integration for former prostitutes, which is the main expenditure in this field, have been defined by your government. I myself have been alerted by associations about the difficulties in obtaining this assistance, and I indicated in my special report that while the 2017 Finance Bill provided for the allocation of this aid to about 400 people, it should in fact benefit only about 30 people this year. The Secretary of State explained to us, in an enlarged committee, that the deadlines for the implementation of the various bodies and for obtaining approvals for associations have been longer than expected. I would add that this device generates, for any eligible person, the rightful benefit of the exit route. Thus, the level of the appropriations allocated seems to me to be both sufficient and not blocking if the number of beneficiaries increases more than expected. It seems to me that, as in the case of aid for the reintegration of migrants, it is not additional appropriations which are lacking, but rather work on the criteria for obtaining such aid and possibly on the identification of the factors blocking the procedure. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u92	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u93	As with the previous amendment, of course I recognise that these appropriations are important and that we are attentive to their purpose, in this case the exit from prostitution. But it is a matter of building a sincere budget. This year, due to the slow start of the scheme, only 17 people received this assistance as part of a reintegration journey. We have calculated that even at the end of the upswing, the planned budget would allow 600 people to be accompanied next year. That is why I think the appropriations are sufficient. The problem is not an additional abundance but a sincere budget and a better accompaniment so as to get more people out of this precarious situation. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u94	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u95	Accompaniment, i.e. assistance for people who wish to leave such a situation, is a matter of concern. The voluntary sector must also be accompanied and supported by financial aid. However, the associations tell us that, as a result of the budget cuts over the 2017 financial year, the national network heads are facing difficulties, especially the departmental associations acting on the ground, which find themselves in great financial and budgetary difficulty. If, next year, a similar budget fall were to take place, we believe – as associations live in this way – that there would be a risk that there would no longer be actors on the ground to accompany those who have made the choice to get out of this situation. The paths and the identifications are very long: it is a work in lace since it is about humans and the territories are also extremely diverse. We believe that there are two things to be distinguished: support for the associative fabric – national network heads and departmental structures – which runs a real risk; assistance to persons engaged in an exit process.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u96	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u97	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u98	The Group of the European People's Party supports Amendment No. 990. While we have heard the arguments about the non-use of the system and the adequacy of budgeting, I would like to highlight the work done by the associations. Indeed, both the question of the signal sent to these associations, which work daily on the ground, and the question of non-recourse, which depends on the means, must be addressed. The non-use of the scheme will of course increase if the number of volunteers working in the field, in contact with the people concerned, and helping them to carry out the steps, is not sufficient. Our group had tabled an amendment on the non-appeal which was declared inadmissible because its adoption would have had the effect of aggravating a public office. However, the non-recourse is also due to the level of financial resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u99	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u100	I fully agree with the arguments of our colleagues from the New Left and France groups: on every bench, there is unanimity to recognize the tragedy of prostitution in our country, for the people who live and are subjected to it. The main problem with which associative actors tell us – it is necessary to explain this – is the difficulty they experience in doing their work, in an effective way, on the ground. What a bad signal we would send to them by rejecting this amendment! Minister, we are all ready to work together on this. But I see you want to take the floor again...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u101	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the appropriations allocated to associations remain stable, at around EUR 5 million. In fact, the budget that we are looking at right now and that you want to abound is the budget of the benefits allocated during the exit process. I repeat: the appropriations allocated to associations are not changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u103	I put to the vote Amendment No. 990.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u104	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to support Amendment No. 1117.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u105	The draft finance law for 2018 provides for a budget of €29.8 million for equality between women and men through programme 137. I would like to welcome the Government's commitment to sanctuarize this budget at a historic level throughout the quinquennium and to implement it fully, in breach of previous fiscal years, during which the dedicated appropriations were not consumed. In addition, more than 60 per cent of programme 137 funds are allocated for the promotion of rights and the fight against gender-based and sexual violence. While equality between women and men is a major national cause of the quinquennium, the amendment I am proposing seeks to transfer € 200000 to the 137 programme in order to cross the € 30 million symbolic bar. These EUR 200000 would strengthen the resources devoted to the support of prostitutes and to the fight against gender-based and sexual violence, which is an unacceptable reality and which, according to recent news, has shown the persistence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u107	Dear colleague, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome your excellent information report, prepared on behalf of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, on the draft finance bill for 2018, which focused on the appropriations entered under programme 137. It was indeed the first time that the delegation had taken up the matter in the context of the budget debate, and that was a good thing. Your amendment aims to abound the appropriations for Programme 137 by EUR 200000 in order to reach the symbolic figure of EUR 30 million. I understand the symbol well, I share your wish to bring the policy of equality between women and men up – contrary to what was said earlier, on the left benches of this House, in the course of the opening speeches – and the recent news shows that there is still much to be done in this area, as you have pointed out. However, you are proposing, in substance, that these EUR 200000 be drawn from Programme 124, which includes the support appropriations of the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission as well as from several ministries. At the budgetary hearings that I have held, I met with the person responsible for this programme and, as I indicated in my opening remarks, I would like to work more specifically on this programme when preparing my next special report. I consider that much has already been done in terms of operating savings and that the budgetary allocation for 2018 of this programme is already very demanding. Therefore, unless the Government decides to raise this pledge of EUR 200000 – which I think is unlikely, knowing the coerced nature of our budget – I can only ask you, dear colleague, to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, I'd be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u109	Same opinion: request for withdrawal; otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u110	Mrs Lazaar, do you withdraw Amendment No 1117?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u111	Having fully understood the explanations of the Special Rapporteur, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u112	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 572, 992, 1030 and 1073, to delete Rule 63. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 572.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u113	We come to a famous subject: the abolition of the activity premium for the beneficiaries of annuities following an accident at work or an occupational disease. Madam Minister, you explained to us in an enlarged committee that it was no longer possible to pay this business bonus. We believe, however, that this is tantamount to a loss of resources for the victims, and therefore a solution must be found to enable them to continue to benefit from the same premium. That is why this amendment is intended to delete Article 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u114	I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 992.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u115	We also propose to delete this article, which means that disabled pensioners, who had fought to benefit from the activity premium, would be deprived of it. Madam Minister, you explained to us in an enlarged committee that these people could no longer benefit from the activity premium because reference was made to a social benefit. But we are talking very well about people in employment: they are employees. Again, in 2016, these people mobilized and were able to get this activity bonus, which we consider fair.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u116	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor to support Amendment No. 1030.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u117	In 2016, AAH beneficiaries and beneficiaries of a pension or an annuity in employment became eligible for the activity premium. However, the latter have made little use of this right, probably due to a lack of communication, both from the Government and from the caisses. In view of the consequences of this situation, Article 63 proposes to put an end to the measure which allows employees who receive either an invalidity pension or an occupational accident or disease pension to receive the work premium. For our group, rather than abolishing this right because of the high rate of non-recourse, it would be better to fight it by improving information to these audiences, so that they know their rights and apply to their CAF, their family allowance fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u118	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 1073.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u119	We also propose the deletion of Article 63. Today, employees receiving an invalidity pension or an AT-MP pension – an accident at work and an occupational disease – who are engaged in an occupational activity can benefit from the activity premium. Article 63 provides for an end to this measure on the ground that it is under-used. Rather than addressing the causes of non-use of this right, you are therefore removing a measure of support for the purchasing power of modest people, who, despite their illness or disability, continue to work. Access to this right is a real challenge for the most vulnerable, and we must respond to it. Too many families do not benefit from the resources to which they are entitled. Why not therefore implement a system allowing beneficiaries to activate their benefits directly? In addition, disability pensions have been raised by only 1% in four years. Persons receiving or receiving an AT-MP pension – i.e. whose inability to work has been recognized – will be subject to a CSG increase of 1.7%, while their pension will not increase, i.e. a net decrease in their resources of 1.7%. Measures for persons with disabilities are not at the level of our citizens' expectations, particularly with regard to resources. The associations concerned with the public concerned are strongly opposed to these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u120	On identical amendments Nos 572, 992, 1030 and 1073, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on these four deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u121	Several groups have therefore tabled amendments to delete Rule 63, and I understand each other's arguments well. In order to avoid confusion, however, I would like to recall two points. Contrary to what I have heard, the allowance for disabled adults is maintained in the derogatory calculation for access to the activity premium; its beneficiaries are therefore not affected by this Article. It also does not deprive beneficiaries of AT-MP pensions and invalidity pensions of the right to receive the activity premium; it puts an end to the derogatory calculation that had been introduced by the 2016 law on labour, the modernisation of social dialogue and the security of career paths. The Government actually plans to put an end to the inclusion of disability pensions and AT-MP pensions as occupational income for access to the activity premium,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u122	That's what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u123	... considering that this is precisely not a matter of professional income.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u124	And financially, what is the consequence?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u125	It is understandable that an exception can be made for the AAH because it is a differential allowance. Therefore, any additional euro earned by means of labour income reduces the amount of AAH received after six months. This is not the case for disability pensions and AT-MP pensions, since they do not decrease according to professional income. The purpose of the article is therefore to return to the spirit of the activity premium in order to make it fully incentiveful. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u127	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u128	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u129	Madam Special Rapporteur, in my speech I did not mention the allowance for adults with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u130	It was your colleagues who talked about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u131	But I would like to be explained how to remove the work premium for workers who receive work injury or occupational disease benefits will encourage them to return to work. I don't understand your reasoning at all. It seems to me that we should be logical with ourselves. As I said in the enlarged committee: we voted in the framework of the PLFSS for an amendment to ask the Government for a report on those who have to go through dialysis sessions and seek to return to work. We want to encourage all persons with disabilities who have the opportunity to return to part-time or at least part-time work. And now you want to remove a device that encourages them to go back to work. If it is not possible by regulation to pay them the benefit, a solution must be found that would allow them to continue to benefit from it. In any case, it cannot be removed from them in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u133	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u134	A word to complement the excellent words of my colleague Gilles Lurton. Article 63 introduces a real injustice. That is why all opposition groups and part of the majority – the MODEM group – are in the same position. You penalize people who have suffered an accident at work, which is beyond their control. They have not chosen to cease their activity; It is an accident, which occurred during their work, that forbids them to do so. In short, they are suffering the double penalty: not only can they no longer work, but they are being deprived of part of their income. This is terribly unfair, minister. I ask you to take this into account and to move forward on the matter. The sums at stake are not considerable, while injustice is manifest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u135	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u136	I would like to remove any confusion. It is not a question of prohibiting beneficiaries of an invalidity pension or an occupational accident or disease pension from accessing the activity premium; This is not what is written in the text. The purpose of the clarification requested is to avoid the risk of cumulation when derogating from income which is not related to a professional activity. Such a situation would divert the business bonus from its original function of encouraging people to work more and to live better on the incomes of their activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u138	We're not going to push them that way!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u139	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u140	I will add a word because I fear confusion. Beneficiaries of the allowance for adults with disabilities are not covered by the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u141	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u142	You've spoken several times about adults with disabilities, Mr. Lurton.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u143	No, I didn't talk about that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u144	Secondly, it is not necessary to take into account the resource, pension or invalidity pension coming from the AT-MP branch in calculating the activity premium. But this does not mean that the persons concerned will not have access to it; They will be able to perceive it, on the part worked. One only goes back to the spirit of the text, which aims to encourage the resumption of work, so to grant the bonus of activity to people engaged in a resumption of employment. Today, only 9,000 households receiving income from an accident at work or occupational disease are affected by the collection of the work premium. This is only a small proportion of the 2.5 million households receiving this premium. We must not depart from the spirit of the text, which is to encourage the resumption of employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u145	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u146	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 572, 992, 1030 and 1073.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u147	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 495 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u148	Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, you have set yourself the objective of increasing the purchasing power of the French by improving the incentives to work. This is a good idea in principle, as it is urgent to look at the purchasing power of the most modest employees. The situation of persons with disabilities had attracted the attention of the Government, as it had committed itself on 20 September to carry out two exceptional AAH ratings: first in November 2018 and then in November 2019. Thanks to these, the monthly amount at full rate of the allowance was expected to be 900 euros by the end of 2019. What a surprise and disappointment when we find that two measures call into question these revalorisations! A few weeks ago, it was the couples' beneficiaries who were penalized. Today, you are removing the activity premium for employed disability pensioners and holders of an AT-MP pension who are engaged in a professional activity – 230,000 people are potentially affected. Each time, you use the same method: you first announce a collective increase in allowances, then one or two exceptions. For many people with disabilities, the gain of purchasing power will ultimately be anecdotal. On 16 October, the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities recalled that resources are at the heart of the daily concerns of persons with disabilities and their families, as disability exposes them to poverty and low standards of living. People with disabilities deserve better than advertising. Let's show them that they really matter to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u150	As such, the amendment does not tend to delete the article, but, in substance, it is close to the precedents. I consider that the discussion has already taken place. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u152	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u153	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u154	With this amendment, I am going back to the previous ones. As far as I am concerned, Madam Minister, I have never spoken of an adult disability allowance, but I have always excluded this benefit from my reasoning. On the other hand, you confirm that, as a result of the measure, the 9000 people who receive income from an occupational accident or disease, who are now potentially beneficiaries of the activity premium, will be deprived of it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u155	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u156	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u157	They will always be able to benefit from the activity premium if they work, but their pension or pension will not be taken into account in its calculation. It is therefore in the calculation algorithm that the difference will lie: they will be entitled to it on the part worked.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u159	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u160	It is indeed very clear, but it is clearly unfair! Previously, their activity premium was calculated on total income. In the future, if a person has been the victim of an accident at work, the premium will no longer be calculated on the compensation part of the accident at work but only on the part of the activity. The person will therefore suffer the penalty of no longer being able to practise his profession, he will risk having his income reduced as a result of the loss of premiums and he will see his business bonus reduced, since it will no longer be calculated on the same amount. In short, it's a triple penalty. Yes, it is very clear: for these 9,000 people, the triple sentence is profoundly unfair. An accident at work is an event independent of the will of those concerned. Perhaps the amendment is not well drafted, perhaps its scope is too broad, but I would like to see a gesture made to avoid this profound injustice. On all the benches, it seems to me that we can find unanimity on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u161	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 496 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u162	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u163	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor to support Amendment No. 1031 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u164	Article 63 proposes to put an end to the measure which allows employees receiving an invalidity pension or an occupational accident or disease pension to receive the activity premium. On the deletion amendments, the vote took place: the article was retained. However, rather than abolishing this right because of the high rate of non-recourse, it would be preferable to combat it by improving information to the public concerned, so that they know their rights and apply to the FCA. That is why we propose to shift the entry into force of the article by one year. This deadline would allow an information campaign to be set up for persons eligible for the activity premium. At the end of this period, the rate of use of the premium could again be assessed and we could reconsider the need to abolish this right and resume our exchanges.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u165	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u166	You are asking for a one-year latency time in order to increase awareness of the procedure for calculating the activity premium for beneficiaries of an AT-MP disability pension. You attribute the small number of recourses to the activity premium to the fact that the beneficiaries of these pensions and pensions are not sufficiently informed. However, as you certainly know, the rate of recourse to the activity premium is very important: it is 71%, a much higher level than that of the active AHR. To date, I believe that the scheme is well-identified and known to potential beneficiaries, even if it is still necessary to combat non-use. Even if the article effectively reduces the scope of the activity premium, it will not prevent beneficiaries of AT-MP pensions and invalidity pensions from accessing this premium. It simply changes the parameters for calculating its amount. For these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u167	I have before me a number of amendments to the supplementary article after Rule 63. Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to support Amendment No. 1120.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u168	Various schemes are aimed at financially penalising behaviour that violates equality between women and men: the Act of 9 November 2010 on pension reform; the Act of 12 March 2012 on access to full employment and improvement of the conditions of employment of contract staff in the civil service; the Act of 13 April 2016 to strengthen the fight against the prostitution system, which introduces a fine against clients of prostitutes. These three mechanisms are designed to punish behaviour that violates equality between women and men, in order to change these attitudes. In line with this objective, this amendment proposes to ensure an annual monitoring of the amounts allocated to the three schemes, within the framework of the cross-cutting policy document on gender equality policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u170	The inclusion of these data in the cross-cutting policy document has already been acquired. So I rely on the wisdom of the congregation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u172	I understand your desire to have figures on the product of sanctions or penalties which, with regard to equality and women's rights, aim to empower different actors. However, it is not necessary to include these elements in the law, since the cross-cutting policy documents have a very broad framework, which allows for an equally wide follow-up of these mechanisms, without entering into such a degree of precision. However, on this amendment, I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u174	I have before me two amendments, Nos 861 and 1092, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 861.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u175	It is with pleasure, Madam President, that I receive the floor from you for the first time, and I congratulate you on your election to the Vice-President of our Assembly. This amendment, which takes into account article 40 of the Constitution, tends to call on the Government to take measures to improve the situation of family caregivers. We are aware of the actions of the more than 8 million of our fellow citizens who help a loved one who has become dependent because of his age, disability or illness on a daily basis. This aid amounts to more than EUR 160 billion per year. However, social and sociological developments make it increasingly difficult. Admittedly, the Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing of December 2015 has made some progress in recognizing the role played by caregivers, whether it is caregiving leave or the right to respite. But these provisions are not enough, far from it. We therefore need to develop new support measures, for example the extension of the family tax credit to employees with dependent parents in loss of autonomy or the possibility for employees to unblock all or part of their wage savings in order to finance a temporary or permanent stay of an elderly parent in loss of autonomy in a housing establishment. It is therefore necessary, through this amendment, to find new ways of supporting family caregivers on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u176	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 1092.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u177	The 2015 Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing has made significant progress for caregivers of older people. Improvements are needed for caregivers of persons with disabilities. The disability compensation benefit – PCH – is intended to cover the various disability-related expenses, pay an employee or compensate a family worker; As with most benefits and allowances paid to persons with disabilities, it is not taxable. However, the amounts collected by family caregivers from the PCH for compensation are taxable because they are treated as non-commercial profits. This tax therefore lowers the already low level of compensation for family caregivers of persons with disabilities. This position of the tax administration is contrary to the spirit of the Act of 11 February 2005, which recognizes the important role of family caregivers for persons with disabilities. Furthermore, when the child reaches the age of 20, the assisting parent loses his or her membership in the old-age insurance by decision of the CDMH, the departmental home of the disabled. The lack of recognition of the society vis-à-vis the carers is therefore added a social injustice, because they are deprived of pension rights, which also seems to us to be contrary to the spirit of the law. We therefore support an amendment that reads: "The Government shall submit to Parliament, within twelve months of the enactment of this Act, a report on the situation of family caregivers. In particular, this report explores the possibility of revising the taxation of compensation payments, as part of the compensation benefit, in order to support and enhance family caregivers. The report also explores the possibility of maintaining old-age insurance coverage for parents caring for a disabled child over the age of 20. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u179	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u180	Although in common discussion, they are a little different. The way they are advocating is a way of dealing with important issues, I understand it well, but I am not in favour of the requests for a report, many of the amendments tabled. Amendment No 861 contains a request for a report on the care of family carers, a truly legitimate and sensitive issue since, according to several studies, the dual activity of an employed carer has an impact on his or her professional activity. The real debate, however, will take place during the discussion of the non-attached articles, on which several amendments have been tabled to this effect. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable. As for Amendment No 1092, it concerns the imposition of income tax on sums paid as compensation. Again, the subject is relevant, but the amendment would be more in its place, in my view, in the PLFSS, to which social levies belong. I therefore invite you, Mrs de Vaucouleurs, to reposition it in this context, as was suggested with Mrs Bareigts at the beginning of the sitting. The committee's opinion is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u182	With regard to Amendment No 861, many avenues have already been opened. Among other things, we have entrusted Dominique Gillot, President of the CNCHP, the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities, a mission whose conclusions will be made around March 2018, to explore ways to improve the return to work of family caregivers. We therefore await this report, which may specify the measures to be taken. Amendment No 1092 is more relevant to the PLFSS since it concerns the status of family carers and their taxation. Unfavorable opinion, therefore, on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u183	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u184	Many requests for reports have been made since the beginning of the legislature, but such documents are not only used to evacuate matters that do not require an immediate response; They are also sometimes used to put on the carpet topics that require urgent answers. Not all of us are equal, as we must see, in situations of illness or distress in the family. There are probably many colleagues in this House who have already been confronted with problems of illness of parents or grandparents that they have had to accompany. The suggestions contained in these amendments do not necessarily cost money, like the one put forward very well by Mr Breton, which is to release wage savings to facilitate placement in an establishment. These proposals deserve to be answered fairly quickly or seriously addressed. Other studies may exist, I understand, but it would be welcome, in the course of our discussion, to ask the Government to submit reports to us quickly, as we are doing with Amendment No 861. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The mission is entitled "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities". Here, there is talk of intergenerational solidarity and equal opportunities between people who, in life, do not suffer in the same way from the constraints of family support. It would therefore be particularly welcome, I repeat, for us to move forward on these issues through Amendment No 861, which I strongly support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u185	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 996.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u186	Republican universalism grants equal rights to all people. This great principle is reflected in the preamble to the Constitution of 27 October 1946. At present, however, the authority of the State Secretariat for Persons with Disabilities remains too weak, and the views of the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities are not fully taken into account. There is still no political will to truly include these citizens in national solidarity, and France is constantly reported by international bodies for repeated violations of international agreements on disability, despite the increase in the number of people with disabilities – more than 10 million are affected. To make progress in taking disability into account, La France insoumise proposes numerous measures, including the zero-obstacle plan for people with disabilities. According to this plan, for example, prefects may replace mayors to impose the necessary works and close private buildings that do not comply with the law, or impose a transport accessibility programme. This plan also provides for massive public financial support for the upgrading of infrastructure, as part of the major investment plan of EUR 100 billion detailed in the Common Future programme. The jobs and activity generated by this plan are indeed non-relocable and will contribute to the revival of economic activity in the country. The report we are asking for would assess the cost of all these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u188	That is an essential question, Mrs Fiat. The 2005 Act had ambitious targets for accessibility of services and public places to persons with disabilities. There is still a long way to go, but I do not think a report on this point is useful. Any commitment by the Government, on the other hand, is welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u190	The accessibility of public places is indeed essential for the free movement of persons with disabilities and their full access to social life on a daily basis. Efforts are still needed, even though a lot has already been done. Of about 1 million establishments receiving from the public – LES –, nearly 610000 have thus entered the planned accessibility agenda – ADAPs – and more than 100,000 are already accessible. The Interdepartmental Disability Committee set out the roadmap to improve this outcome, with the completion of a review of the ADAPs in 2018, at the end of the first three-year deadline after 2015. This assessment, carried out in a transparent and shared manner with the associations representing persons with disabilities, will largely satisfy this amendment. In addition, the State with an exemplary duty, the State's real estate management and the prefects, at the local level, will be mobilized to achieve the objective. Finally, strengthening the digital accessibility of public services, such as family allowance funds, employment centres and impots.gouv.fr, and electoral propaganda are also among the main objectives of the Interministerial Committee on Disability, in order to make it easier for people with disabilities to access their rights. The subject, well known to the Government, was a matter of high priority for him. Therefore, a new report does not seem necessary. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u191	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u192	We are pleased to learn that a review of the ADAPs will be carried out in 2018. I have been calling for it for a long time, as the amendment of the law has, in my view, created a lot of difficulties. It would also be interesting to take stock not only of the ADAPs, but also of the derogations that have been granted. As you know, ADAP's files were to be filed in prefecture; When the 2015 law was passed, your predecessor pledged to strengthen the prefecture staff dedicated to the examination of these files and requests for exemption. However, these numbers have never been increased, so, in my view, many files, including derogations, have received tacit approval because there was insufficient time to examine them. I would therefore like all of this to be included in the report, so that we really know where we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u193	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 998.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u194	There was talk of the extremely low amount of the RSA – EUR 545 per month – for which no scale revalorisation is planned, the last revalorisation to which it has been subjected having barely compensated for inflation. On the other hand, 1.2 million eligible people do not request it because of administrative difficulties, lack of support or the stigma I mentioned earlier. A rich country like France cannot be satisfied with this situation. I recall that 9 million people live below the poverty line: it is absolutely necessary to find a solution. France believes that it might be interesting to establish what we call a guarantee of dignity of EUR 1000, which would help to address the problem of non-recourse, with the introduction of automaticity, and bring the people concerned back to a decent standard of living. The break with the current system would therefore pass: through the creation of a payment fund for those entitled out of appeal, i.e. a new structure of the State, which would automatically pay the RSA; by an upgrading of the latter; by its transformation into a guarantee of dignity, to the tune of 1000 euros per month, so that no one lives below the poverty line. In order to avoid confusion, however, it is not a question of tackling the current social minimums: the allowance for adults with disabilities, the specific solidarity allowance, the asylum-seeker's allowance, in particular, will be retained. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] With this amendment, we are asking for a report to quantify such a measure, the human side of which is no longer to be demonstrated – poverty is a fundamental issue in access to education, health and healthy food. Moreover, from a financial point of view, it is more economically interesting and more effective than anyone living below the poverty line, given the effects of poverty on the lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u196	He's unfavorable. This amendment revives the debate on universal income or basic income, which led the presidential election. It's not a majority project. However, non-use must be combated. It is in this sense that the Government intends to go, in particular with the single social payment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u197	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u198	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u199	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for as brief a statement as possible. I would remind you that we must consider a second mission after this one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u200	Madam Special Rapporteur, it is absolutely not a question of returning to the universal income, which is intended to give everyone a certain amount. The guarantee of dignity would always be based on social criteria: instead of giving 600 or 700 euros to the whole population, we want to concentrate aid on those who need it most.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u201	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 999.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u202	The purpose of this amendment is to request the Government to provide an evaluation report on the cost of setting up an autonomy allowance for young people between 18 and 25 years of age for three years. These young people, who cannot reach the income of active solidarity, are among the most vulnerable populations. The Observatoire des Inequalités points out that the categories of the ten to nineteen and twenty-nine years of age are the most affected by poverty: just over half of the poor are under thirty years of age. It therefore seems necessary to create an autonomy allowance for young people between 18 and 25 years of age, for a period of three years, subject to qualified training and subject to resources. This would help to promote the occupational integration of these young people and to combat situations of extreme poverty. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] This claim has also been supported for many years by youth organizations, including student organizations. It would therefore be interesting to have a report on the costing of this measure under various conditions of resources, before applying it and thereby achieving solidarity with young people in training, by enabling the improvement of their living and study conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u204	He's unfavorable. The issue of youth poverty is a real challenge. While it is useful to recall that they can benefit from the activity premium, it should be noted that the conditions for access to the RSA base are indeed very restrictive. However, a new allowance does not appear necessary. On the other hand, I am in favour of a reflection on the conditions for access to the RSA for young people between the ages of 18 and 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u206	The social and vocational situation of young people has already been the subject of a report in the context of the experiment prior to the generalisation of the youth guarantee scheme. It is intended to be deployed, supported and supported, with the objective of reaching 100,000 young beneficiaries in 2018. We are also developing a strategy to combat child and youth poverty, in which these topics will be discussed again. In addition, in January 2017, France strategy submitted a report on the occupational integration of young people, the result of a consultation with trade union and employers' organisations. We also have the conclusions of the report by Antoine Dulin, Vice-President of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. It therefore seems to us that a new report on the subject is not a priority, since much has been published on the subject and a dialogue begins on the poverty of young people. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u207	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to support Amendment No. 1118.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u208	This amendment relates to the family tax credit, which is intended to encourage companies to carry out the expenses that enable their employees to better reconcile family and professional lives: companies that incur expenses to set up nurseries or support paid to employees may benefit from this tax credit, by deducting the amounts incurred from their corporate tax, under certain conditions. Our amendment aims to produce a report on this mechanism, which remains little known, in order to present the main characteristics of the recipient companies, the expenditure incurred and their evolution, as well as their impact on the employees. This evaluation would ensure the effectiveness and relevance of a mechanism that will play an important role in improving the articulation between family and professional life, and thus address the issues of equality between women and men, a major national cause of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u210	This request for a report refers to a provision similar to that referred to in Amendment No 861, while at the same time expanding the subject matter in an interesting way. It may be more appropriate to address this issue when we look at non-attached items, after section 44 of this FLP.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u212	You are right, Mrs Lazaar, the family tax credit is an interesting incentive to reconcile family and professional lives. We believe that it should be examined in the more global context of all the funding mechanisms in the early childhood care sector, in the light of the interactions existing, for example, with the addition of free choice of mode of care – the CMG –, the early childhood care benefit – the PAJE – or the support granted by the family branch to collective crèches. The recently formed National Assembly's information mission on family policy seems to us to be a better opportunity to build such an overall vision, with a view, if necessary, to an enlightened recalibration within the framework of the PLF for 2019. The Government undertakes to respond favourably to the requests made to it in connection with this fact-finding mission on the family tax credit. I therefore suggest you, Mrs Lazaar, withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I will ask the House to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u213	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u214	I withdraw my amendment, since the request for a report will be met by the work of the fact-finding mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u215	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u216	We have completed the review of the "Solidarity, Integration and Equal Opportunities" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u217	We now turn to the examination of health appropriations (No 273, Annex 38; No 276, Volume I). The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u218	Madam President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the special rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you this evening the budget for the "Health" mission of the draft finance bill for the year 2018, which carries the resources allocated mainly to the management of public health and the preservation, in the interests of all, of arrangements for access to care open to people in an irregular situation. This budget is a budget of responsibility and reflects the commitment of sincerity that prevailed in the preparation of the 2018 Finance Bill. This commitment leads to the upgrading of the budget allocations and to the evolution of the Mission's appropriations, which increase, at constant scope, by 174 million euros, a sharp increase, by 14% between 2017 and 2018. Programme 204, the first component of the mission, is devoted to prevention, health security and the provision of care. I want to put into perspective what these funds are in all the resources allocated to health: they amount to just under EUR 500 million and are allocated for two thirds to the financing of four health agencies and for almost 20% to the costs of justice or compensation. With the exception of grants to certain network heads and grants to the National Public Health Agency – ANSP – the funds for this programme do not finance prevention policy very much. The bulk of the preventive funds included in this programme have been transferred, in the draft finance law for 2017, to the CNAMTS, the National Fund for the Health Insurance of Employees, which has replaced the State in order to abound the Regional Intervention Fund of the Regional Health Agencies – the IRF. There are multiple funding channels for prevention policy. To mention only the most important: the IRF, which spends just under 500 million euros on prevention; the National Fund for Prevention, Education and Health Information – FNPEIS – located at CNAMTS, with approximately €400 million for prevention; the Tobacco Control Fund. These resources are constantly increasing. IRF funding, discussed under the FSLP, will increase by 3.1%, after 2.1% this year and 1% in 2016. The tobacco fund's resources will increase from €32 million to €130 million in 2018. And I will ensure that, in the context of the negotiation of the new objective and management agreement with CNAMTS, the means of prevention are advanced. Under this programme, the allocation to ANSP will increase by just over €6 million. It is expected that the other financing of actions by the Ministry's central departments will be reduced, but this will not exceed EUR 1.3 million. Actions will be examined on a case-by-case basis and, where appropriate, additional funding will be provided through one of the other available channels. The financing of actions relating to the fight against AIDS will be maintained. The draft budget before you simplifies the funding of health agencies by transferring funding from budgetary, minority, biomedicine agency and the School of Higher Studies in Public Health to health insurance. This makes it possible to complete the work of awarding state funding and health insurance started in 2017 with the ANSP. Four health-care operators remain funded by the State through the "Health" mission: ANSP; the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products, ANSM; the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour, ANSES; National Cancer Institute, CNIB. The appropriations allocated to them are up by EUR 4.4 million. Budget preparation has enabled the necessary re-basement of agencies to be taken into account in order to return to a balance path in the medium term. In the coming years, the ANSP will of course have a decisive role to play in the development of the 2017-2022 national health strategy, currently subject to public consultation. It will also continue to have a key role in managing exceptional health situations. The ANSM aims to promote rapid access to all innovative health products and to ensure a high level of health safety. It will also need to increase its efficiency and further modernize, which in particular requires a stabilization of its organization. In addition to the funding of these major health operators, the 204 programme includes compensation costs for the victims of the Dépakine, amounting to €77.7 million, compared to €10 million in the initial finance law for 2017, when the scheme was put in place. Program 183, the second component of the "Health" mission, is largely in line with the funding for state medical assistance. I want to remind you again: AME is a necessary device for public health, health professionals and health facilities. Removing the AME, as I sometimes intend to propose, would be a bad idea and a mistake from the point of view of public health. In addition, this would place a responsibility that is not theirs on health care professionals and institutions. We therefore assume our responsibilities, and the state's medical aid will be increased by 108 million euros, bringing them to 923 million in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude with the Asbestos Victims Compensation Fund, the second component of programme 183. The State's allocation is renewed to the tune of EUR 8 million. I would remind you that this is an annex contribution: FIVA has a total of 270 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u219	Mrs Véronique Louwagie, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u220	Madam President – I would like to greet you on the occasion of your first sitting presidency – the Minister for Solidarity and Health, the Chairperson of the Committee on Social Affairs, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the "Health" mission, which covers the appropriations for state health policy, consists of programmes 183, "Sickness protection" – which finances almost exclusively the AME – and 204, "Prevention, health security and provision of care". The first part of my report is devoted to mission appropriations, while the second part focuses on three specific topics. The first is the hospital management of the precarious patientel, a poorly supervised and poorly compensated mission. The other two concern prevention: on the one hand, obesity and, on the other, health safety, with a first assessment of the experimentation of the lower-risk consumer room in Paris. In particular, through these last two themes, I wanted to draw attention to the important needs that are being felt in terms of prevention. As regards programme 183, the appropriations requested amount to EUR 932 million. In concrete terms, EUR 109 million is added to the AME under ordinary law compared to the original Finance Law for 2017. This increase is not related to the decrease in the number of AME beneficiaries since the last quarter of 2016. However, Madam Minister, you told us in the enlarged committee that the level of appropriations for 2018 was based on the trend of previous years. One can therefore be surprised at this situation. Furthermore, to date, no explanation has been given for this decrease in AME beneficiaries, a counter-intuitive development, particularly with regard to the arrival of new migrants. In any event, the funds allocated to the AME increased by 40% between 2013 and 2017. Moreover, if the AME's support for urgent care is financed by a dedicated allocation of €40 million that has not been changed since 2008, the cost of the CNAMTS is almost double. It is therefore about EUR 1 billion that is committed to finance the AME. As we know, the subject is sensitive to many of our fellow citizens; You should have the courage to ask yourself why. However, even in the enlarged committee, this subject could not be approached with serenity, without stigmatization or moral lessons. However, one question must be asked: that of the abuses inherent in such a generous and poorly controlled system. Ms.Touraine herself, who was quick to give moral lessons, had acknowledged that channels of patients from elsewhere abuse this aid for illegal and precarious citizens, going so far as to admit before senators in 2014 that these cases of fraud are, in part, inflating the number of beneficiaries of this aid. At a time when we are trying, especially in the field of health, to save money everywhere, this considerable amount of money leads many of our fellow citizens to wonder. There is a feeling of injustice and consent to tax. It is wrong to say that the basket of care is very limited: only a few treatments such as the LDC and thermal treatments were removed from it following the publication of an IGAS report which had shown the existence of many abuses. We therefore propose some symbolic measures to avoid them. The prior agreement of certain acts exists for the insured persons; the PLFSS for 2018 also extends this device. Why not apply it to some expensive AME care? Is not what is good for the French social insurance worker for an irregular foreigner? Some call for the pure and simple removal of this device; It's not my position. You said it, Madam Minister: it would be a mistake. On the other hand, I am asking for procedures for monitoring and prior authorisation. I also ask you for a report: while for such a mechanism we need transparency, the latest in-depth data date back to 2010, the date of the most recent IGAS report. With regard to programme 204, there is also an increase in appropriations. However, the Agency for Biomedicine and the School of Advanced Studies in Public Health are now funded from the funds of health insurance. In fact, this growth is only the result of the budget line devoted to legal and litigation actions: it is due to the €77.7 million allocated to finance the compensation scheme for the victims of the Dépakine, managed by the National Office for the Compensation of Medical Accidents – ONIAM. In fact, the AME's budget is increasing while that of prevention is decreasing: it is one of our concerns. Finally, prevention remains an adjustment variable. I understand, Madam Minister, that all preventive measures are not part of this mission, but we can only note the decrease in prevention-related expenditures, which is the corollary of the increase in AME-related expenditures, while the need for prevention is considerable. For all these reasons, I am against the adoption of the Health Mission appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u221	I call Mr Vercamer, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u222	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Social Affairs, meeting last week in an enlarged committee, adopted the appropriations for the Health Mission. In this regard, I would like to return to a few points. Although these appropriations increase by more than 12 %, this increase should be put into perspective, as it is mainly due to two factors: firstly, the sharp increase in the legal costs of programme 204, in anticipation of the expenses associated with the dépakine dispute, which is expected to rise this year to almost 78 million euros; Secondly, the continuation of the dynamic evolution of the AME allocation within the 183 programme, which is increasing by 13% and in 2018 will amount to €923.7 million in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations. With regard to the AME, I note, however, that the appropriations entered for 2018 should be more in line with trend expenditure, rather than being under-budgeted as in previous years. Above all, I would like to stress the coherence of the scope of this mission. Indeed, from year to year, the imbalance between the two programmes is increasing, to the detriment of Program 204, which accounts for only 35% of the Mission's appropriations. I would point out that this programme concerns prevention, health safety and the provision of care. In addition, since 2015, many credits, including those to finance several health agencies and regional intervention funds, have been transferred to health insurance, and the trend continues in 2018. After these few remarks on budgetary appropriations, I will focus more on the ANSP, to which I have chosen to devote the second part of my report. After more than a year of existence, the ANSP set up its governance bodies and led a first work programme. It is a key actor in prevention at a time when the Government and you, the Minister, wish to give it new impetus, which I welcome. The Agency's ambition is to position itself as an essential body of expertise and engineering. Its strength is to bring together epidemiological monitoring experts, prevention experts and health emergency experts, all from the merger of several agencies. This is why she chose to renew her approach to health promotion by focusing on the continuum between epidemiology and prevention. At the same time, the Agency wanted to rethink the means used for prevention, which involves three steps: first, the development of evidence-based prevention; the implementation of a social marketing strategy using new tools such as social networks and mobile phone applications; Finally, the dissemination of a new culture of evaluation. The perfect illustration of this rethought prevention is the "Tobacco-Free Month" campaign launched by ANSP in 2016 and renewed in 2017 after an assessment of its positive impact. Nevertheless, it remains for ANSP to find its place in a fragmented landscape where multiple actors contribute to prevention without effective coordination. The main challenge facing the Agency is the articulation of its preventive missions with those of regional health agencies – RHAs. The latter, responsible for developing regional health projects, are concerned with preserving their prerogatives in this area. The discussions in the enlarged commission highlighted the fact that the Government is also aiming for better collaboration between ANSP and the ARS. Similarly, the ANSP will have to position itself vis-à-vis other health agencies, in particular the CNCA in the fight against cancer, and especially with regard to health insurance: the CNAMTS, through its National Fund for Health Prevention, Education and Information, finances the ANSP's tobacco control activities, which makes collaboration unbalanced. This issue of funding ANSP's prevention actions is crucial, as such actions only produce long-term effects, making them less visible. That is why I plead for their sustainable financing. In the framework of the PLFSS for 2018, I proposed the creation of a national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – dedicated specifically to prevention, but the Government stressed the difficulty of implementing this idea. I note, however, the Minister's willingness to better identify the overall spending on prevention issues and the report commissioned to that effect by the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – the DREES – and the Commission on Health Accounts. More specifically, with regard to the resources of ANSP, no funds are made available for its prevention and health promotion activities, which therefore suffer from the priority given to the emergency. For example, this year, the management of cyclone Irma resulted in expenditure of EUR 1.9 million in the space of a fortnight. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] In addition, these resources are limited, as the agency must comply with the budgetary rigour required of State operators. Above all, they are very little diversified: 90% of the resources that the Agency receives come from a subsidy for public service charges, the rest being mainly from two taxes whose revenues are limited. I am sensitive to the Government's arguments and its concern for sound management in order to avoid the dispersal of the allocation of tax revenues, but the diversity of ANSP's resources and their increase contribute to the Agency's effectiveness in carrying out its tasks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u223	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. The next speaker is Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u224	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the priorities of the "Health" mission of the finance bill for 2018 fully complement those of the Social Security funding bill. For the past four months, ambitious reforms have been proposed by the Government and voted by the Assembly; The MODEM Group fully supports them. In our view, programme 204 is characterized by three words: prevention, simplification and modernization. First, as a complement to the PLFSS, prevention is strengthened through a contribution to the reduction of social and territorial health inequalities. As you know, minister, this is a goal that is of particular interest to us. We know, of course, that many such actions are financed by the PLFSS. Some funds allocated to health promotion and prevention measures reach, despite budgetary constraints, a level almost equivalent to that of 2017; Some, such as mental health funds, are even increasing. In addition, by changing the missions and funding of each of the national and regional actors, the Government is developing an effective project methodology to promote access to care for all and everywhere. Secondly, with the finance bill for 2018, the Government is continuing its efforts to simplify the roles of the various actors, not only at the financial level, through the granting of state-health insurance funding, but also organisationally, by refocusing on four operators of health security missions. Thirdly, modernization requires a significant investment effort. Action 19 provides for the provision of assistance for the development of information systems, in particular for the digital hospital project and all matters relating to telemedicine. I would like to refer to the report of the Court of Auditors, commissioned in 2014 by the Social Affairs Committee and the mission to assess and monitor the funding laws of the Social Security – the MECSS – and presented in 2017. The Court of Auditors has clearly raised the problem of an incomplete evolution of the purchasing function for the 878 public medical establishments. For her, the lack of definition of the role and function of procurement, as well as management and monitoring tools, is due to "the general lack of an information system covering the entire procurement process". You told me that the PHARE process – hospital performance for responsible purchases – was in charge of this subject. But the Court of Auditors repeats that the digital hospital programme could very usefully accompany its establishment, so that it is reoriented towards the convergence of information systems within hospital groups in the territory – GHT. If we approve of the Government's policy, we want it to give itself more means to really help hospitals – a necessity stressed by the Court of Auditors. In particular, we will be following the modernization that should allow public medical institutions to have a real information system to enable a better purchasing process. With regard to programme 203, it was true that, in a deliberately tense financial context, the definition of funds for health was inevitably a difficult task for the Government, since it was complex to choose between abundant and diminishing the actions necessary for the well-being of the population. An example illustrates this complexity perfectly: that of the AME. Some would like this aid to be reduced, not seeming to understand the need to take care of the health of foreigners, implying that this care would be at the expense of that of our fellow citizens. As you have pointed out, treating these populations is a humanitarian act, but it is also an economy in view of the costs of even greater deterioration of their health. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the REM group]] Health is one of the most complex topics. In this area, restraint and constructivity must guide our parliamentary action. That is why the members of the MODEM Group will vote in favour of the appropriations for the Health Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u225	Paul Christophe, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u226	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Committee, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the Constructive Group is calling for an ambitious and proactive policy in favour of health prevention. Good health is an issue of competitiveness and attractiveness in our territories. It has consequences for the well-being and individual and collective morale of our fellow citizens and, as such, is part of the very first fundamentals of society. It is therefore very important to set a clear course for prevention – which must begin at an early age. Health prevention is one of the major challenges of a health policy that is still too curative. Therefore, prevention and taking into account the risks of addiction are, we believe, one of the decisive issues of the coming decades. The resources allocated in 2018 to the "Health" mission amount to €1.41 billion in commitment authorisations compared to $1.26 billion in initial finance law for 2017, an increase of 12%. The Constructive Group welcomes this increase in funding for prevention, which we had already highlighted in the Social Security funding bill. We particularly welcome the courageous policy on tobacco control and the measures related to the extension of compulsory vaccines for children. My question about the "Health" mission concerns in particular the evolution of the appropriations linked to the Fund for the compensation of victims of asbestos – FIVA. The asbestos tragedy in France represents 10 deaths every day, 3000 per year and more than 200000 are expected in the coming decades. It is therefore more than necessary to compensate the victims of this poison properly. FIVA, established in 2001, is responsible for providing compensation for the damage suffered by victims of asbestos. Its resources consist, for the most part, of an allocation of the occupational accidents and diseases branch – AT-MP – and, alternatively, of a State allocation which corresponds to the exercise of national solidarity towards non-professional victims. For 2018, this allocation is maintained at EUR 8 million. However, as a reminder, between 2016 and 2017, the same contribution increased from 13.4 million to 8 million euros, a 40% decrease between the two years. We therefore note a decrease in the State's contribution to the financing of the FIVA. Since 2005, this funding has been provided by a State allocation of EUR 52 million in 2005, and by a contribution of EUR 50 million each year until 2013, and by the AT-MP branch of EUR 200 million in 2005 and by a contribution of EUR 315 million each year. After the 2013 and 2014 financial years, during which the existence of reserves and the strong contribution of the AT-MP branch led to the failure to allocate State resources, the increase in the number of claims for compensation led to the re-engagement of State resources; But the amount allocated since then is much lower. The current contribution corresponds to only about one fifth of the amount of State-insured participations before 2013: this situation can be considered insufficient in view of the responsibilities assumed by the State in the context of what we can now call the asbestos scandal. I would like you, Madam Minister, to clarify this point. In conclusion, the Constructive Group will follow the draftsman, Francis Vercamer, and vote on the appropriations for the Health Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u227	The next speaker is Mr Joël Aviragnet, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u228	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the special rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, as some speakers have already said, the Health Mission is divided into two programmes: Programme 204 and Programme 183. With regard to Program 183, Minister, state medical assistance provides access to the care of the most disadvantaged people. I would therefore like to recall the observation made in a report of the National Ethics Advisory Committee dated October 16, 2017, that migrants "do not constitute a threat" to our health care system. Contrary to the ideas received, they do not represent a significant health cost, since they are, if I may say so, only 0.2% of our health expenditures. I take this rostrum to tell those of them who listen to us that migrants present in France must dare to treat themselves when they are sick. It is their right under our international commitments and our Constitution. They must not be afraid of the French care system. On the contrary, they will always be welcomed and cared for, respecting our republican values. The state's medical aid budget is up 11.8% compared to 2017, which is intended to finance the trend increase in spending. It is a measure of common sense that the New Left Group unequivocally supports. Indeed, this system is essential in order to enable foreigners in an irregular situation to benefit from access to care. As a result, AME plays a key role in public health, avoiding the spread of untreated contagious diseases. Finally, it helps to control public spending by avoiding the additional costs of delayed and emergency care. It is therefore a device that needs to be maintained, improved and made more accessible. The second part of programme 183 concerns compensation for victims of asbestos and their beneficiaries. The Socialist Group, which is behind this measure, obviously supports this mechanism and its financing. I come to our disagreements, Madam Minister. The Prevention Programme 204 reduced the funds for chronic disease prevention and environmental and food risk prevention by 7% and 6%, respectively. In concrete terms, the Government is reducing funds for the prevention of neurodegenerative diseases and diseases related to ageing. It also reduces funding for cancer prevention, as well as addictions, while tobacco control appeared to be a priority in the review of the Social Security Funding Bill. The Government is also reducing funding for mental health prevention, as well as for combating HIV, sexually transmitted infections, hepatitis and tuberculosis. I think I can anticipate your answer, minister: you're going to tell me that prevention doesn't need big, expensive advertising campaigns and that it's enough to do more prevention in occupational medicine, in school medicine or in environmental education, which is indeed important. But, Madam Minister, at the risk of repeating to me, in the underfunded areas of doctors, as is the case with my constituency, the problem is the lack of doctors available to carry out these preventive actions. I would like to believe that it is sufficient to provide for mutualisations and all kinds of organizations to overcome the shortage of doctors; But on this point, I don't understand you anymore, and I'm not the only one. When I refer to the Government's plan on the ground, doctors, whether liberal or hospital, who are already saturated by their work, wonder: what remains to be shared, when we are already overtaken? Nothing. As for health homes, one can continue to create them, since it is important. However, the existing ones should be filled in already. You tell us that prevention is not limited to program 204. Of which act. But in concrete terms, in sub-dozen territories, what is left of us? The New Left Group would like to make it clear that the 7% reduction in appropriations for prevention cannot be accepted. I would add that it has not escaped me that the Government has tabled an amendment, during the examination of the PLFSS for 2018 in the Senate, which tends to reduce France's tobacco control objectives. It was then that all the groups in this House voted for an ambitious tobacco tax. Think Bercy didn't pay attention to the doctor's advice that you are, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u229	Thank you for closing, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u230	In conclusion, if we had had to decide on these two programmes separately, we would have voted against the Government's programme on prevention, as it shows a 7 per cent decrease in appropriations, but for the State's medical aid programme. As a result, the New Left Group will abstain from voting on the credits of the Health Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u232	Mrs Caroline Fiat, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u233	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, we regret that at a time when inequalities in access to care are increasing, the priority for the Government is not to improve the health of the French. Once again, it will be the poorest people who will have a hard time, for the benefit of other categories that it is pointless to call – we know your policy. The "Health" mission of the 2018 Finance Bill is divided into two programs. Almost all the actions in programme 204 have their credits reduced: less 900000 euros for population health. While France is characterized by some of the most marked social inequalities in health in Europe and healthy life expectancy has been declining since 2006, you are reducing the budgets allocated to populations in difficulty, mothers and children, as well as to sexual health. It is sick and precarious people, women and their children, adolescents and families who are affected. There is also a €4 million reduction in appropriations for the prevention of chronic diseases and the quality of life of patients. While we have to deal with the increase in the number of cases of diabetes, cancer, but also with an increase in the number of problems related to the consumption of tobacco and alcohol, obesity and junk food, you find only one thing to do: to cut down on the funds to meet them. This decline will be all the more damaging given that labour law ordinances seriously affect people who are subject to a high degree of hard work. The budget also shows a reduction of more than EUR 1 million for the prevention of environmental and food risks, while the increased risks are known: water pollution, endocrine disruptors, and asbestos. Less €9 million for health product policy and quality of practices and care. State agencies responsible for ensuring a good quality and reasonable price of the drug will be further weakened in the face of the pharmaceutical industries. You will object to me that the total funding for the Health Mission will increase for 2018. But let's look at the details: apart from the increase in state medical aid – I will come back to that – the only allocations that are actually increasing are those that aim to bring together agencies and those that are intended to modernise the provision of care. Last year, the Government consolidated various bodies within the National Public Health Agency. This year, the Government's flagship measures follow the same logic – it is not very imaginative. As usual, in order to save money, we merge, mutualize, group together, while enjoying the so-called performance gains that this will bring. The growing difficulties faced by these agencies in responding to public health issues are never a concern. While new funding is being allocated to clusters, agencies are being asked to tighten their belts while requiring them to carry out ever-wider missions. This year, a decrease of 20 full-time equivalents for the National Drug Safety Agency is announced, with shorter processing times for marketing authorizations. The Government is trying to reassure us that this downsizing takes into account the transfer of the European Medicines Agency to Lille, even before this transfer is endorsed by the European Union. With such a bleed, such a weakening of health agencies, how can we hope that they will be able to cope with large pharmaceutical groups when they refuse to take care of the damage suffered by patients? As far as the Dépakine is concerned, we support your decision to allocate €78 million a year to the compensation of the victims, in order to compensate the families as soon as possible. That said, our group will closely monitor the progress of the negotiations so that Sanofi can quickly repay the state of this advance. You are announcing a decrease of four FTEs for the National Cancer Institute, as environmental cancers multiply. We also learn of the 38 per cent decrease in funding allocated to the High Council for Public Health and a 15 FTE decrease for the National Public Health Agency. Nothing has been done to counter these continuous cuts for several years. To these job cuts, you oppose the miracles of digital. People who are suffering will find themselves facing more and more Internet platforms. Are you having a depression? Don't worry, the "Stop blues" app is there to support you... Let's stop the stupidity! Digital technology can provide solutions, but not respond to public health issues alone. Let's go to the second part of the "Health" mission, dedicated to 99% of the state's medical aid. For several years, migratory flows from countries where France is involved have been increasing. It is therefore normal, out of solidarity, to provide a minimum of health assistance to individuals and families in distress. The increase in AME's credits is accompanied by this trend in the number of new arrivals. However, as you know, the AME of common law is only available to people who have been living in France for at least three months. But you want to strengthen the tracking of those who are trying to benefit illegally from the AME, especially migrants who have just arrived on the territory. When it comes to tracking the poorest, you are once again particularly vigilant. Can you remind me of the State's net loss from the reform of the ISF and the capital tax system? I'll tell you: 5 billion euros. The AME does not even represent a fifth of this amount. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In France, we do not want to spend more money on tracking the poorest. We are particularly concerned that the rate of cessation of care for financial reasons, but also for lack of information and support, is constantly increasing. This budget is another blow to health policy; That is why we will not vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u234	Mr Alain Bruneel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u235	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, health is worth more than all the gold in the world. Socrates in his time already asked the question: "Is there a more precious good for man than health? Indeed, health is the greatest asset. It is for this reason that our views on this mission will not be a matter of controversy but of political remarks aimed at defending this common good which is vital for our citizens. It is worth recalling the global context in which we operate. The majority of the National Assembly voted on the Social Security Financing Bill, announcing the death of the latter and displaying a policy of austerity with 4.2 billion savings planned on health insurance in 2018. Citizens will be penalized, expectations unmet, health needs, yet so many, may remain unsolved. The "Health" mission is part of this climate and its budget is roughly equivalent to the savings requested at the public hospital, i.e. €1.4 billion. Of course, the mission presented shows an increase in appropriations of 14% in one year. We could be delighted if this did not mask great disparities. This announcement effect appears as a new trompe - the eye that cannot hide the fact that some actions suffer from a drastic decrease in their credits. The workforce is not saved, with a decrease of 57 FTEs, after the 40 jobs already abolished in 2017. To relativize the overall increase in appropriations, let us focus on those relating to prevention, health security and the provision of care. The increase actually benefits the majority of the costs of justice, in particular in connection with the scandal of the Dépakine. In this regard, while it is important that compensation for victims should start without delay, this should not prevent the State from imposing on the industrialist to assume his responsibilities in this regard. In detail, the appropriations for the "Health of populations" action are halved. Those of the action "Prevention of chronic diseases and quality of life of the sick" fall by €4 million. The funds to combat neurodegenerative diseases – a real national scourge – are, moreover, largely insufficient. The objectives of information and education on risk practices leading to serious pathologies are obviously important, but cannot be self-sufficient. This behavioralist approach cannot hide that, more than bad behaviour, it is above all the social violence of our society that degrades the bodies and minds of our fellow citizens on a daily basis. Moreover, the programme's performance indicators, both for the prevalence of smoking and for influenza vaccination coverage rates, are all calculated by average. But averages are often misleading in that they make the brutality of inequalities invisible. If life expectancy increases in our country, social inequalities in the face of death are more violent than ever. Health is therefore primarily the result of the inclusion in the bodies and minds of the unequal social functioning of our societies through which social disparities go under the skin. The second programme of this mission mainly concerns the AME. Here we want to affirm loudly the importance of this concrete solidarity scheme with the most fragile. Health cannot be paid off, contrary to what some Members have proposed when considering appropriations in committee. It must remain a right for all, including and especially for those who need it most. We therefore welcome the commitment made by the Minister to the AME, whose appropriations are increasing by EUR 108 million. To those who wish to turn their backs on human dignity by pointing the most fragile finger, we reply that it is the honour of our country to have such a mechanism. The new revelations about tax havens must, moreover, make us put into perspective any attempt to save money on such indispensable programmes, which at all costs require to be sanctified. This is an emergency from both a human and a health point of view. In conclusion, we cannot accept that the philosophy of "doing better with less", adopted to enter into the nails of European budgetary constraints, applies to health. The argument that efforts would be spread over interdepartmental funding cannot reassure us, since the "austerity" logics are the same for other budgetary missions. That is why we will not vote for these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u237	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u238	Madam President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the special rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, our public health policy finds an illustration and budgetary means in the "Health" mission of the finance bill. At the heart of programme 204 is prevention, a priority of this mandate's priorities in the field of health. Indeed, France has long had a high level of curative medicine, but a policy of insufficient prevention, which is lagging behind, for example, that of the countries of Northern Europe. Introducing prevention into all public policies involves improving school medicine and occupational medicine, creating a health service for young health professionals and increasing environmental protection, education and health promotion in schools. It also implies – and we thank you, Minister – for carrying out the proactive policy you have put in place with regard to vaccination. You have also announced measures to restore confidence and to combat disinformation campaigns against vaccines, especially on the Internet. We also appreciate your determination in the fight against smoking. Of course, the effectiveness of deterrence would have been even greater if the price increase had been organised in just one or two times, rather than on five or six occasions, even if the final result was in 2020, at the same price: 10 euros. This, along with several others you are deploying, will enable populations most vulnerable to tobacco addiction – young and precarious – to move towards an increasingly accessible withdrawal. Let us also enjoy the tax proportional to the amount of sugar in sweet drinks, the improvement of food and the encouragement of physical exercise. Improving sexual health, reducing alcoholism, detecting sexually transmitted diseases and various cancers is also one of your goals. Program 183 includes the AME device. Minister, our parliamentary group fully supports your courageous defence of this mechanism. It is about solidarity, ethics and humanism. It is also about public health, because allowing communicable diseases to evolve would pose a danger to all. Finally, there is pragmatism: in fact, no French doctor would agree to deprive a patient of care on the pretext that he is a foreigner; This would contradict his oath and his ethic. Therefore, should such care escape any billing or accounting and increase deficits? Of course not. Moreover, delaying such care would only make them more expensive as a result of the progression and worsening of the disease. This does not mean that it would be superfluous to control this expenditure, like other health expenditures. The fluctuation in the number of beneficiaries in recent years has been mainly related to the variation in the number of beneficiaries. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I conclude by commending the effort made for the victims of the Dépakin. Compensation, managed by ONIAM, will become simpler and faster, while the State will obtain reimbursement from the laboratory in question. In total, the La République en marche group will therefore vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u239	Mr Julien Aubert, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u240	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Special Rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, I would like to concentrate on the AME. In an enlarged committee, Madam Minister, I have asked you about the gradual extension of the cost of this system, which allows foreigners in a regular situation to receive free care. I reminded you of our group's perfectly reasonable position: to provide for a stamp duty to avoid health tourism while retaining aid for undocumented people, so as not to abandon these populations. Our country is generous, but its generosity has limits. At its inception in 2000, the AME's budget was in the order of €75 million. In 2016, it had already increased tenfold, with an annual growth rate of 38 per cent. This year, you expect €923 million for 2018, a small increase of 13%, after an increase of €852 million in 18 years. When will you become aware that this evolution is endless? In committee, Madam Minister, in response to my argument, you have preferred the field of the great principles and looked up our arguments by trying to discredit them. Indeed – I realized it with my own eyes when I went to reception centres –, the mobile phone is the first tool of a clandestine, as shown by many articles published in magazines that are frankly not susceptible to anti-migrant phobia, such as Marianne. I would alert you to the fact that, if illegals can pay the price of a mobile phone package, they are able to participate in their social protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u241	What you're saying is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u242	You have said some rough words, preferring to portray the beneficiaries of the AME as ultra-poor contagious. Like your predecessor Marisol Touraine, with the same arguments, you have closed the door to any debate. Let us therefore reopen the debate, avoiding Germinal. First, to close the door to a "stamp duty", you invoke a report from the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – and the General Inspectorate of Finance – IGF – of 2007, i.e., ten years old, when the expenditure was half the current gauge. Above all, you have told me that there is evidence that the introduction of a stamp duty would cause the costs of delaying the management of contagious diseases to explode. Clearly, you have never read the 2007 report or its 2010 update. The 2007 report devotes barely a dozen lines, little supported, to this proposal, to sweeping it in a very stoning way, based on a line of a report by Médecins du monde on the vaccination coverage of foreign patients. The 2010 editors are much more cautious than you, writing that "any lack of knowledge of the serological status of the person or any delay in diagnosis can" – I insist on this last word – "have important consequences on the spread of the disease. [...] By moving the public concerned away from the care system, the risk is great to facilitate the spread of this type of pathology. This finding is based not on a study, but on theoretical reasoning, that is, on a possibility, not strong enough to sweep a potential economy from a feather trait. Second confusion: you seem to suggest that spending on heavy pathologies affects most of the people eligible for AME. However, in 2008, there were 5700 cases of tuberculosis in France, the first nine deciles of AME beneficiaries had a profile similar to that of the general scheme and 10% of beneficiaries accounted for 73% of expenditure. Summarizing the issue of AME to tuberculosis or HIV is therefore very reducing – or, then, remove from the care basket the full reimbursement of optical costs, prosthetics or dental care. You seem to be confounding common law expenditure with emergency or humanitarian expenditure. On heavy pathologies, cases of fraud were reported with a chain of tuberculous Georgians: in 2014, 57 cases cost 13.6 million euros. Professor François Bricaire stated in Le Point that "patients give themselves the word. In their country of origin, they are told that France is the only country where they can be treated. » The third approximation: you seem to say that by advocating the stamp duty, we would be barbarians, ready to deliver the country to the spread of pathologies. We will not give in to the merchants of fear: open your eyes, you are the only one in Europe to think like this! A French beneficiary amounts to EUR 2350, compared with EUR 1564 in Sweden, EUR 1250 in Spain and EUR 569 in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u243	This is France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u244	Why? Because Denmark, Switzerland, Spain, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Italy have all put in place moderators. You think 30 euros is a luxury? What about Switzerland, which asks for 250 euros a year, or Sweden, which asks for 5 euros per visit? How do they do it? Since 2012, Spain has chosen to limit the reimbursement of care for foreigners in an irregular situation to emergencies, maternity, care for minors, vaccination and the prevention of infectious diseases? Is this an inhuman country? Our only requirement is to provide immediate and urgent care for undocumented people, which we do with emergency assistance. In conclusion, for all those who do not have enough to finish their ends of months or who do not save a few euros, this example of uncontrolled generosity, impossible to criticize and unlimited is incomprehensible. It paves the way for the protesting and rejection movements of the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u245	Thank you for closing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u246	You do not even have the argument of collegiality: your colleague Gérard Darmanin, Minister of Action and Public Accounts, declared in 2014 that the problem was not the AME, but the abolition of the stamp duty. This is the principle that, even when you are in need, you have to contribute.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u248	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u249	Minister, prevention is essential and you have announced your willingness to work on this issue. For the group La France insoumée, prevention is also a priority. During the examination of the text in committee, you explained to us that television spots had very little effect, even though they were very expensive, and that we had to think about new ways of prevention to evaluate, such as social networks. We welcome this reflection, but one question persists: who better than caregivers can help achieve results in this area? Whether it's the child care worker who, in maternity, will explain to parents the importance of vaccines, the school nurse who will talk to students about nutrition by informing them about the dangers of junk food and the risks of obesity, the doctor who, in emergencies, will explain the harm of tobacco to the patient who presents for severe asthma or the care worker in residential care for dependent seniors – EHPAD – who will explain the benefits of maintaining self-reliance, the caregivers are, you will understand, an asset in prevention. However, while the latter is part of their training, nothing in this PLF allows caregivers to help you in this important task. Caregivers already do not have the means to perform basic care: let's not talk about prevention. Madam Minister, why not have a budget line to increase the resources of healthcare workers, who could again provide quality care and, finally, take the time to educate patients, residents, families and children, thus enabling the quality prevention work you want to achieve?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u250	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u251	Mrs Fiat, I have explained in the enlarged committee that prevention is indeed difficult to assess in its entirety, as there are many preventive measures in public policies and it is difficult to assess the time that caregivers spend promoting health to their patients. This is one of the difficulties encountered in consolidating the budget dedicated to prevention. Indeed, in the remuneration of professionals, only remuneration for public health objectives – ROSP – refers to preventive measures. However, it is well known that health professionals are involved, beyond the ROSP, at all levels and at all times. Of course, prevention in the field of health cannot be summed up in the budget voted in the framework of the PLF – that is the difficulty we all face when we need to consolidate our vision of prevention in France. That is why I want to encourage health professionals to train in preventive measures, which is not the case today in their studies. I would like to encourage them financially by changing pricing methods and moving from 100 per cent to 100 per cent, towards pricing that takes account of care pathways and the time spent on prevention. I hope that we will develop good practices in the field of prevention, particularly in the recommendations of the High Health Authority. All these measures are not quantified in the PLF: this is the difficulty today. To go back to the criticisms that have been made about the prevention budget presented in the PLF, I would remind you that one of the reasons why we feel – I'm saying the feeling – that these budgets are falling is that some of them have been switched to the benefit of the CNAMTS, within the framework of the National Fund for Prevention, Education and Health Information – FNPEIS – and the Regional Intervention Fund – FIR – in order to leave more resources at the disposal of the ARS to finance prevention actions on the ground. Finally, account must be taken of the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, which appeared in the prevention budgets. Taking into account this abolition and the fact that the freeze on appropriations has increased from 8 % to 3 %, we can consider that prevention budgets are stable today in this programme, or that they fall very little. I would therefore like to reassure all parliamentarians, including you, Mrs Fiat, in response to your comment: prevention budgets are consistent and in line with my ambition to make a real shift in prevention towards a real paradigm shift in our country. The budgets concentrated in the PLF of course represent only a part of the actions that we can take in this area. I will conclude by referring to school medicine, which I often hear repeated that it does not meet the needs and expectations. This is clearly not the case, but I would point out that school medicine does not depend on the Ministry of Health or the PLF: it is exclusively the responsibility of the Directorate-General for School Education – DGESCO – of the Ministry of National Education. Jean-Michel Blanquer and I are working to ensure that the six-year medical examination is effective for 100% of French children and, given the small number of school doctors, the idea is to have other liberal health professionals work in the school, if necessary – but school medicine in this country is unfortunately not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u252	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u253	I call the funds of the "Health" mission, listed in Statement B. On these appropriations, I have two amendments before me. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1095.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u254	Nine hundred and twenty-three million seven hundred and three thousand eight hundred and twenty-four euros: this is, to the nearest euro, the amount that will be allocated in 2018 for the state's medical aid – an envelope in constant increase, in freewheel, if I dare say, because we are told that only 12% of the files presented will be checked in 2018. I am not saying that state medical aid must be completely abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u255	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u256	Refugees in an absolute state of emergency must, of course, be able to benefit from this assistance. We must, of course, treat those who are suffering from diseases that we have managed to contain in France, such as tuberculosis, measles or hepatitis B, but France will not be able to continue on that train. In 2003, France treated 180415 refugees. In 2016, they were 311310 – an increase of 72% over thirteen years. We can be happy about that, but how can we not also ask ourselves a few questions? How can France continue to cope with this ever-increasing migratory pressure? How can we give these refugees a dignified reception, without harming the French, who need all the care and who are entitled to it? The AME does not fall from the sky: it comes from the National Health Insurance Fund for salaried workers, i.e. it is paid by those who work for those who, not only do not work, but are also in an irregular situation. The amount of the AME must be drastically reduced and, in order to do so, we must fight with all the weapons we have against the illegal immigration that is overwhelming our country. The Government continues to reiterate the need for priorities. I therefore propose one: rather than increasing the envelope of the AME and being complacent in the role of the good Samaritan, could we not devote this envelope to the fight against medical desertification? To each one his choices. You know mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u258	Your amendment, Mrs Ménard, is aimed at transferring EUR 250 million of the AME appropriations from programme 183 to programme 204. We could understand your approach, which intends to respond to the evolution of expenditure under the AME, which, as you have pointed out, has undergone a significant change in recent years, but such a reduction in appropriations would not allow this public health policy to be properly carried out – you are indeed calling for a reduction in appropriations of the order of 25%. I would also like to point out that each year, from 2012 to 2016, the appropriations for the AME were under-budgeted and consumption was much higher, particularly for the years 2013 and 2014, where it exceeded the initially budgeted appropriations by 25%, as Claude Goasguen, previously Special Rapporteur on the "Health" mission, pointed out. We all agree, I believe, with the idea that we should avoid under-budgeting. In 2017, the appropriations in the original finance law were €815 million. This figure is also lower than the 2016 consumption. However, the rate of consumption of these credits on 15 October is around 70%, and the Social Security Directorate has indicated that all the appropriations voted for 2017 will probably not be consumed in full year. It therefore seems to me that we should ensure that the appropriations are not under-budgeted. I propose that you withdraw this amendment, which can be regarded as an appeal amendment which we are trying to respond to by asking, with an amendment which I will defend earlier, for a report to inform the evolution of the AME's appropriations. The committee did not consider this amendment. Personally, I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u260	As you can imagine, the Government is against this amendment. AME is a mechanism that is justified by humanitarian, health and economic considerations. While the AME protects the individuals involved, it also protects us from too late care, which would cost the community a lot more. It's not just tuberculosis – to answer to Mr.Aubert –: when you don't treat high blood pressure or diabetes, a patient has a stroke and is responsible for the community, it costs infinitely more than the cost of treating high blood pressure. It is therefore a miscalculation to delay routine care. I would also point out that the basket of care reimbursed by the AME is not that of the common law: these patients do not have access to 15% of medicines, and there is a lot of them; They obviously do not have access to medically assisted procreation or thermal cures. When a medicine or device they need requires a prior agreement from the Social Security, they obviously, like everyone else, have an obligation to ask for this agreement. In practice, patients receiving AME have a very small basket of care, but it allows the community as a whole to protect themselves from a number of infectious diseases. While protecting these patients from chronic disease, the AME protects the community from potential additional costs to the public hospital or the community. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We have been making enormous management efforts for several years. Starting in mid-2018, the three health insurance funds in Paris, Bobigny and Marseille will provide training for all of AME's applications in metropolitan France. This mutualisation will, in addition to management savings, improve access to the system by reducing delays in training and harmonising procedures. It will also allow better control and control of cases, and thus of the state's medical aid. I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u262	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u263	I hear your arguments well, minister, but it seems to me that you are mixing all the cases, for example by simultaneously evoking infectious diseases and high blood pressure. I would like to know what data you rely on: Are there any studies? I don't think so – and that's exactly what we're asking you for. There is no systematic study that allows us to judge the merits of providing all care to those who benefit from AME.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u264	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1111.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u265	If e-health is one of the results of technological advances, it is also the result of a disastrous health policy: 9000 communes, and not only rural communes, or 5.3 million inhabitants, live in real medical deserts, and these figures will not improve. Encourage e-health, yes, but only when it allows better information or operation thousands of kilometres away. Encourage telemedicine, yes, but how can we talk about telemedicine in territories where digital coverage is not even guaranteed? What vision of medicine does this project convey? That is the question we must ask ourselves. The 2500 - year - old Hippocrates' oath helps us to answer this question: "I will lead the diet of the sick to their advantage [...] and I will abstain from all evil and injustice. What about telemedicine? It breaks the relationship between the patient and the doctor, however indispensable; it no longer provides quality medical follow-up; it creates an inequity between patients; It is a sign of renunciation of the communes because a commune without a doctor is a commune that is dying. The implantation of doctors in medical deserts is no longer an option: it is an emergency. Tax relief can be a solution, as can an increase in the number of medical students admitted in the second year. So yes, it is true, these students would only be trained in ten or fifteen years, but at least they will be there for our children. The 26% of retired physicians who continue to practise their profession are not the solution, nor the 11.8% of doctors with a foreign diploma, synonymous with sometimes high quality training.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u267	Through this amendment, you propose to transfer EUR 100 million from programme 183 on "State medical aid" to programme 204, justifying this transfer through the fight against medical desertification. Your concern is unanimously shared, on all benches; The minister is very attentive and we are all concerned about this situation. It is a matter of importance since the French, wherever they are, must have access to care in the same way. In the summary statement of your amendment, you refer in particular to two points, namely what you call the e-health health revolution. To a certain extent, I share your vision: if telemedicine is to be developed, it must be developed at the service of our territories and the French. We need doctors, that's undeniable. You also refer to the removal of the numerus clausus in France. It is not this amendment that will resolve the issue. The reduction of the appropriations for the 183 programme by EUR 100 million is to go towards a risk of under-budgeting of the AME's appropriations, without changing the approach. We cannot therefore accept such a sub-budgeting – I refer you to the argument I have put forward with regard to the previous amendment. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; You will eventually be able to support the amendment to produce a report. The committee did not consider this amendment; In my personal capacity, I am unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u268	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Rule 62. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 767 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u269	The purpose of this amendment is to re-establish two measures abolished by the previous government: on the one hand, the procedure for prior approval of state medical aid and, on the other hand, a flat-rate annual fee, the amount of which will be fixed by decree. The forecast bill for the state medical aid scheme will amount to €923 million in 2018 – almost €1 billion. As every year, it will probably be out of date and the budget line will have to be abounded in the act of amending finance. The scheme has also seen continuous growth of beneficiaries since its inception in 2000. To date, their number has exceeded 300,000; it has more than doubled since 2002. It is therefore time, Madam Minister, to put the debate in clear and responsible terms in order to strengthen the proper management of this humanitarian scheme, as do many of our European neighbours, such as Spain, Sweden, Denmark and Italy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u271	The committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion on this amendment. On the other hand, on a personal basis, I am in favour of it, since I myself have signed it. I want to remind you of a few figures that should lead us to question ourselves. The number of AME beneficiaries has been decreasing since the last quarter of 2016 and, in 2017, is likely to be lower than the number recorded in 2015. However, the credits consumed continue to increase. The measure proposed to you therefore seems pragmatic and goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u273	We learn from our past experiences. The stamp duty was introduced in 2011 and subsequently abolished by the Financial Amendment Act for 2012 for good reasons. First, it increases the complexity of the process of obtaining the AME: it is therefore a certain obstacle to the right of access to the AME for a whole population that is very precarious, because of the administrative procedures involved. Secondly, this complexity has created, if not an obstacle, at least delays in access to care, at the cost of worsening a number of pathologies. Far from encouraging the regulation of expenditure, it has thus led to a shift to hospital care, which is more expensive because it is later. Over the period of the stamp duty, between 2011 and 2012, there was a decrease in the total number of beneficiaries but also an increase in hospital expenditure of more than 7%. Furthermore, in view of the higher health risk of delays in the management of certain communicable diseases, which are overrepresented in the population concerned by the scheme, we believe that we pose a health risk to the population as a whole. The expected yield on the stamp duty is very low; it is well overtaken by the additional cost of non-use of care, worsening of pathologies, carry-over of hospital costs and the resulting cost of pathologies; In addition, it increases the management burden significantly for health insurance funds. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u274	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u275	Let us ask the question: how do other countries do it? Clearly, there is only in France a system of stamp duty, which, moreover, has its own complexity, seems to be inconceivable. As I was telling you earlier, Switzerland, Spain, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Denmark have systems in place – and I am not talking about the Canadian and Japanese systems, which are even harder. On the other hand, we are experiencing inflation, which no one disputes, of the amounts in question. You then explained to us that there had been a balance sheet of the stamp duty. This system has only worked for a year: in terms of feedback, it is still quite limited. Moreover, to my knowledge, there has been no report on the subject. We currently have a report from IGAS and IGF from 2007 and updated in 2010. This paper only devotes four lines to infectious diseases, pointing out that there could be a risk: this is not really what could be called a large-scale medical study. On the other hand – you are right on this point – it explains the administrative difficulties arising from the introduction of a stamp duty. This issue can be debated, but the issue today is whether or not an illegal person who receives social protection should contribute to the financing. The subject is not a budget: it is a matter of principle. As long as French people contribute to benefit from social protection, should those who have entered the territory illegally also contribute?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u276	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u277	I am astonished by this debate, which is also being conducted at such a late hour. I can't figure it out at all. The AME budget, included in Program 183, responds to well-identified needs and a political situation – I fully agree with the Minister's remarks on this subject. Nor can we propose to draw on this budget to finance others: this is not the way it is done. This budget has a very specific role. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, REM and MODEM groups]] You say, Mr. Aubert, that illegals have the means to buy a cell phone and pay a subscription of 30 euros. But they are people who have left their country by boat, and some have died during the crossing. They just buy a cell phone to communicate with their family. It's human! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, REM and MODEM groups]] Everything must be controlled in life – it is normal and the minister has said so too – but I find it scandalous to propose to amputate this budget. If this budget is to increase, I will vote for that increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u278	Mr Olivier Véran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u279	First of all, you say that the AME should be reserved for tuberculosis patients: I would like to be told how it is known that a patient suffers from tuberculosis rather than viral bronchitis before it has been examined. I'm a doctor, but I can't tell you if a kid who has fever and coughs suffers from tuberculosis before giving him a radio or even a scanner. So you must be guessing or very strong in medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u280	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u281	Secondly, non-assistance to people at risk is not included in our country's DNA. When you wear a white blouse, you treat that needs to be treated, without looking at his papers and whether or not you will be paid. By repealing or reducing access to the AME, the only thing that is removed is the possibility for health professionals in the hospital and city medicine to be paid for the care they will continue to provide. You have a very poor idea of the health care professionals in our country to believe that they will stop treating.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u282	You're out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u283	That is what the oath of Hippocrates, which you have quoted, Madame Ménard, says: people are cared for, regardless of their means. Last point: 300,000 beneficiaries multiplied by 30 euros, that is actually 9 million euros per year. AME is the least protective of all health systems in France. 15 per cent drugs, spa treatments, the LDC: a range of treatments that are available to all diets are not open to AME beneficiaries. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and FI groups]] It's the AME or nothing: there's no other system. To claim that we are going to charge these people an entry fee is incoherent in scientific, medical and ethical terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u284	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1053 and 770, which can be put to a joint debate. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 1053.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u285	This amendment is intended to provide a report, but I would like to take this opportunity to make another request to the Members present in this House. At the beginning of the evening, we talked a lot about equality between men and women. I would like all Members to speak to "Mrs. Chair," "Mrs. Minister," "Mrs. It would already be a very good example of equality between men and women for all those who look at us. I now come to the amendment. We would like to ensure the sustainability of the AME. The state's medical aid regularly reappears in the public debate, as we have just seen. We believe that the Government is not targeting the right performance indicators. That is why we are asking for a report that would make it possible to twist the neck of misconceptions and to put the question to a standstill. [[Laugh. – Applause on several benches of the REM group]] I summarized my point and now I don't know where I am. It doesn't matter: we offer you very good indicators. Everything is written on your sheets, read them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u286	Everything is said, indeed! Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u287	This report could be prepared by a working group involving four representatives of the administration and four representatives of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u288	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 770 as corrected and to give the committee's opinion on Amendment No. 1053.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u289	We call on the Government to submit to Parliament within one year a report analysing the reasons for spending on state medical aid. It is noted that expenditure on the AME increased between 2012 and 2017 by about 40% – an increase that continues while the number of beneficiaries appears to be decreasing since the end of 2016, to the point that it will probably be lower in 2017 than it was in 2015. This decline is not explained. It probably results from the conjunction of several phenomena. All of this leads us to ask for this report. We need to maintain the AME, but we need to think about how this aid can continue to be provided. Amendment No 1053, on the other hand, aims at the submission of a report to take stock of the state's medical aid. As has been said before the Committee on Social Affairs, the AME is already the subject of a number of reports. The issue of budgetary indicators is not a legislative but a regulatory one. This does not mean that the Ministry of Health should not try to change certain criteria in relation to the Ministry of Finance – I trust the Minister on this point. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, especially since the amendment which I tabled in my personal capacity aims to produce a report on the much more targeted subject of the evolution of expenditure under the AME. I would add that the committee did not consider Amendment No 1053.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u290	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u291	Regular monitoring of expenditure and changes in the number of beneficiaries and their characteristics is already being carried out by the Ministry of Health on the basis of the information provided by the sickness insurance funds and the data of the Technical Agency for Information on Hospitalisation – ATISH. It is on these elements that the budget estimates presented in the FLP are based on each year. It seems to us that an additional report is not necessary. He could only note the difficulty of predicting perfectly reliable changes in the number of beneficiaries, as seen this year in particular. Finally, I would like to point out that, during the review of the PLFSS for 2018, an information report on financial access to care for people in precarious situations was voted. It will, of course, take into account the beneficiaries of the AME. It therefore seems to me that a new report on the subject is not necessary. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u292	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1066.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u293	In every major debate on the end of life in Parliament, there is a unanimous view that palliative care needs to be developed. However, despite the implementation of three three-year plans to develop such care, 80% of patients still do not have access to it. Above all, it is important to understand this support in all its dimensions – human, technical, medical and financial – but the provision of palliative care faces several pitfalls: significant territorial disparities, too much hospital-centred development, insufficient training for caregivers and funding. Thus, there is a lack of palliative care in medical and social institutions, particularly in residential institutions for dependent elderly persons. While four out of five French people would like to spend their last moments at home, more than half of the deaths are still in the hospital. There is therefore a need to consider more sustained care for palliative care in the home. This palliative care requires more than ever special attention on our part in order to reduce inequalities in access, to promote training, to sanctify sources of funding to improve the end-of-life conditions of our fellow citizens. The Leonetti Act provides that every two years a review of the policy for the development of palliative care is presented as an annex to the finance bill. This provision has not been implemented, which is regrettable and constitutes a real obstacle to an accurate assessment of the development of palliative care. The purpose of this amendment is to request a report on the budgetary means to be devoted to palliative care in order to ensure balanced development throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u295	The purpose of this amendment is to request the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the budgetary means for palliative care. You recalled that the previous government had put in place a national plan for the development of palliative care and end-of-life support. It would be interesting to know the status of its implementation, in particular with regard to the organisation, training of staff and the dissemination of good practices. Such a report would answer all these questions. The committee has not considered this amendment, but I am in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u296	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u297	The annual report on the financing of health care institutions, which is transmitted annually to Parliament, already includes an assessment of the policy for the development of palliative care. The draft report for 2016 will be sent to you next week. He noted a steady increase in the resources used for palliative care in medicine, including palliative care units, identified palliative care beds, home-based hospitalization and specialized recourse, both mobile palliative care teams and regional paediatric palliative care resource teams. For those who have coded palliative care as their primary diagnosis, there is an increase of 2.1%. This represents 708 million euros in 2016. For mobile palliative care teams, this budget has increased by 3.6%, or 136 million euros in 2016. I repeat, this report will be sent to you shortly. That is why, while sharing your objective, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u298	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u299	If the reports are sent to us after the debate, it is difficult to discuss them. Thus, we were unable to study the figures you give us. The Leonetti law provides that this balance sheet should be annexed to the finance law, which would have allowed us to debate it. That is why I maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u300	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1067.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u301	I know, Madam Minister, that you are sensitive to the cause of women. I would like the National Assembly to take a moment to look at the suffering of women fighting for recognition of the serious adverse effects of the permanent sterilization device Essure, from the Bayer laboratory. For at least 2,000 women this device turns to calvary: extreme fatigue, muscle pain, neurological disorders, abdominal pain – the list is not exhaustive. As you know, Madam Minister, the Bayer laboratory has finally decided to stop marketing this device, but there is still no withdrawal protocol and the explantation of this device leads, in some cases, to actual mutilation. Above all, the victims are calling for the creation of a compensation fund backed by ONIAM, as has been done for the Mediator or the Dépakine. Under no circumstances should the State substitute itself for the laboratory's responsibilities, but a large-scale compensation problem should facilitate the judicial path of the victims. Women who have brought legal proceedings face the cost of the expertise – 3000 euros, sometimes even 6000 euros – that they cannot hire. The State must ensure that there is equal treatment; It must play an important role between women victims and the laboratory responsible, so that things can move forward before the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u303	Through this amendment, you are asking for a report on the compensation of victims of the implantable medical device for permanent sterilization Essure. In the same way as has been done for the victims of the Mediator and the Dépakine, the victims ask for the creation of a compensation fund, backed by ONIAM, without prejudice to any actions which may be carried out in accordance with which ordinary law. The aim here is to facilitate the judicial path of these victims, so that they can be compensated. As in the case of the older Dépakine, the cost of such compensation can be extremely high. It is true that direct recourse to ONIAM is possible and that group actions are also under way. However, in the case of a new complex case of iatrogenic disease, a report would help to measure the extent of the phenomenon and the nature of the response to it. The Commission delivered an unfavourable opinion, in particular on the grounds that it was not appropriate to set up own compensation funds. In my personal capacity, I am in favour of this, for two main reasons: on the one hand, it concerns 2000 women, an important figure; On the other hand, the report is not exclusive to the creation of the compensation fund, since it is intended to propose a response.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u304	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u305	I would point out that individual or collective damage caused by health products or medicinal products – in this case a medical device – may be the subject of amicable claims before the ONIAM or actions before the courts in the ordinary legal proceedings. The establishment of a compensation fund is derogating from ordinary law. It is only justified in three cases: where there is a systemic problem, giving rise to very large-scale compensation – I am thinking in particular of the Dépakine and its many victims –; where there is a fault of the public authorities; where there is a risk of failure to compensate victims, in particular by the industry concerned. In this case, and without denying the difficulties described by the women involved in the Essure system, we are not in one of these exceptional situations. We therefore propose to remain within the framework of ordinary compensation procedures. Moreover, France is the country that has most implanted Essure throughout the world, with 175,000 women involved. Today, the evaluation of the benefit-risk ratio by the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products – ANSM – has not led to a recommendation to remove the device for women without symptoms. The benefit-risk balance is always assessed as favourable. The withdrawal of the device from the French market was a choice of the laboratory: due to the appearance of a number of cases of women who had suffered side effects, the device was no longer sold. Today, of the 175,000 women in the country, only 2000 express somatic complaints and wish to receive compensation. For those who tolerate the device, there is no recommendation for explantation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u306	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u307	The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this amendment. Although this problem does not, fortunately, concern the 175 000 women who are implanted, some women who suffer from this system retain it, because they cannot afford to have it withdrawn. Making a report and working on it is of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u308	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u309	I thank the Special Rapporteur for her personal favourable opinion. Minister, you were right to point out that it is not necessary to remove this device when there are no symptoms. However, the suffering of women who have symptoms and suffer from pathologies is neither questionable nor questionable. The issue is not one of State responsibility. Moreover, and in so far as this is a very large phenomenon, which occurs after the Mediator and the Dépakine, we may soon be debating the need for a comprehensive mechanism. Equal treatment of cases would not be without interest because of the cumbersome procedures for victims. From a scientific point of view, grouping the files would allow for expertise and medical follow-up of the pathologies related to the device. In this sense, Madam Minister, it would be helpful if you received the RESIST association. In addition, you did not answer the question about the withdrawal protocol. From a strict medical point of view, asking for a protocol to be put in place to avoid the removal of the tubes and sometimes of the uterus – which still constitutes mutilation – seems perfectly legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u311	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u312	Women who wish to be explanted and compensated must turn to ONIAM, the object of which is the object.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u313	Yes, but we have to wait for the results of the assessments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u314	It is the work of ONIAM to assess the files. The National College of French Gynaecologists and Obstetricians has been asked to develop a national withdrawal protocol for professionals and patients, in order to better identify the path of care and health facilities in which women can visit for follow-up and, where appropriate, for withdrawal of the device with enhanced medical follow-up. In addition, an information document for implant carriers, including the data available to date on the benefit-risk ratio, withdrawal advice, depending on the presence of symptoms or not, is being developed by the Health Branch. It works in liaison with stakeholders, including associations, and therefore knows RESIST very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u315	We have completed the review of the Health Mission. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-13-O1052.u316	Next sitting, today, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Election of six full judges and six alternate judges to the Court of Justice of the Republic; Further discussion of the second part of the 2018 Finance Bill: credits from the Culture and Media missions, books and cultural industries. The meeting is adjourned.
