ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations for work and employment (No 273, Annex 43; No 276, Volume III) and the special allocation account "National financing for the development of apprenticeship modernization" (No 273, Annex 43). The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u3	Mr President, Madam and Mr Special Rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, Mr Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all those who are present and who thus show in my view the particular interest they attach to our action. The year 2018 is undeniably an important turning point for the "Work and employment" mission, whose credits are the coherent budgetary translation of our desire to profoundly renovate the French social model in order to better protect employees and free up the energy of companies so that they invest and create jobs. The mission reflects the ambition of the projects that we have undertaken in this direction with the ordinances and that we will continue with the reform of unemployment insurance, vocational training and apprenticeship which I will have the honour to defend before you in the spring. Stable from the initial finance law for 2017 to the initial finance law for 2018, with 15.2 billion euros, this budget is in fact a budget of profound transformation, because it clearly breaks with a logic of statistical treatment of unemployment to shift towards a policy of massive investment in skills and sustainable integration into the employment of the publics who are furthest from it, especially young people. This major change is reflected in the choices taken to reallocate our resources. First, we will make an unprecedented financial effort to support skills transformation, which will include skills training and digital skills, through the five-year competence investment plan, with EUR 15 billion over the five-year period, to train and support 1 million low-skilled job seekers and 1 million young dropouts by 2022. Thus, by 2018, we will triple the training effort, with EUR 25 billion in commitment authorisations, and we will reach the threshold of 100,000 beneficiaries of the Youth Guarantee. Secondly, we will put social innovation at the service of combating exclusion from the labour market. It is the meaning of the mission that I entrusted to Jean-Marc Borello, which will give me its conclusions by the end of the year. In this context, effective integration arrangements will be supported and their targeting strengthened. That is the spirit of the amendment that we will propose to you this evening in order to experiment with the system of free jobs as soon as next year, thus implementing a campaign commitment of the President of the Republic that will make it possible to fight effectively against discrimination in hiring and against house arrest. In addition, the 200000 non-market aided contracts will be mobilised among employers who will pursue a genuine policy of support and training, allowing their beneficiaries to get out of the precarious situation on a sustainable basis. It is towards them that we will shift the jobs helped. In addition, the exceptional effort made in 2017 to finance 71000 postal aid in the integration sector through economic activity will be consolidated. It will represent 822 million euros in 2018. Specific schemes for workers with disabilities benefit from an increase of EUR 4 million to EUR 377 million, and funding of an additional 1000 postal aid compared to 2017 will be provided. Finally, the operating budgets of local missions, the Employment Integration Institution, EPIDE, and second chance schools are stabilised to the tune of €285 million. Thirdly, by compensating more than €4 billion for exemptions from social security contributions, this mission is fully involved in the Government's efforts to promote purchasing power and lower labour costs. Fourthly, this transformation budget is also reflected in adjustments. These relate first of all to its scope: the "Work and employment" mission will receive in 2018 the specific solidarity allowance, the SAS, with 2.4 billion euros and whose funding will be reformed without causing any loss to the beneficiaries of this social minimum. Similarly, the State's allocation to Pôle Emploi is decreasing, but will be more than offset by its dynamic resources based on the wage bill; The budget of Pôle Emploi will therefore increase by 20 million euros. Fifthly, this budget is in line with our desire to pay particular attention to social dialogue and the situation of businesses. For example, EUR 112 million will be provided for the partial activity scheme, in particular. In addition, the deconcentrated services of the State will benefit from €52 million for their assistance in support of sectors, branches and enterprises. In addition, the fund for the financing of employees' trade unions and employers' organisations, managed by the AGFPN, the association for the management of the national joint fund, will be abounded by a State subsidy amounting to €97.8 million. With $13.7 million, funding for the training of professional advisors is doubled to support the renewal of the 14512 current advisors. Finally, funding for health and safety at work amounts to EUR 24.1 million. As far as my ministerial department is concerned, next year there will be 9,250 jobs. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the day-to-day work of these men and women who rightly believe in the importance of their mission to the nation. Participatory reflection on their missions will be at the heart of the government project "Public Action 2022". [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, adopting this transformation budget is to support a renewed policy of combating unemployment, investing in skills and integrating the most vulnerable into the labour market. It is, thanks to the triptych "protecting, liberating, investing", to fully seize the potential of the return of growth in order to set the foot in the chain to very many young people, job seekers and fragile people, while meeting the needs of French companies to seek skills, and thus to develop them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u4	That won't be enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u5	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the purpose of the "Work and Employment" mission, which we have today to examine the appropriations, the expectations of French and French people towards us are immense. Gilles Le Gendre, my co-rapporteur, and I, in building our report, have obeyed a requirement: to simplify and persevere what works to make it more efficient. The reversal of the unemployment curve was a "priority" during the previous quinquennium. Today, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, the new majority does not seek to artificially reverse a curve, but to make lasting changes. The objective is clear and ambitious: to create 1 million net jobs by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u7	It's gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u8	Like many of you, I have a conviction: I firmly believe in politics through evidence. Today, however, it is clear that millions of women and men everywhere in France are asking for training, only to work in order to have the opportunity to show what they are capable of. But for some – far too much – the task is difficult, because they are demotivated and have lost the hope of returning to active life. Our responsibility is only greater. But I believe in our ability to succeed, as I believe in the French and French. The course set is clear. To achieve it, we will have to build several roads, each of which is essential but which will give us a considerable force of strike when they join at a point of convergence: that of the return of employment, of a sustainable employment, qualified and secure for the French and French. The first road was built this summer with labour ordinances, whose balanced objective is to free up work while protecting employees. It is necessary to facilitate and ease hiring by SMEs and TPEs, which play a leading role in the labour market. The second road is being completed: I am referring to this first finance bill, which will engrave flagship measures in the marble, including the reduction of wage and corporate taxes for businesses, as well as the implementation of a major investment plan. The third route is public employment policy, which we are presenting today. It will be even stronger next spring when we have the conclusions of the ongoing consultations with the social partners on the reform of vocational training, unemployment insurance and apprenticeship. Vocational training must be possible at the start of employment, but must also be designed throughout life to accompany changes in the world of work. I have personally experienced this situation and I hope that it will be the norm, not the exception. Unemployment insurance must be linked to the person and not to the status: careers have changed; We don't work for life in the same structure. As for learning – a subject to which I am particularly committed – 1.3 million young people are not in school, university, training or employment: in view of this, we must all say that learning is a way of excellence, which will help to remedy this mass unemployment among young people. As I said, the 2018 budget of the "Work and Employment" mission makes clear and assumed choices, the central focus of which is the reorientation of the Mission's appropriations towards the most effective mechanisms and their development accordingly. This results in the creation of two new actions directly linked to the Skills Investment Plan, the ICP, whose overall volume over five years will be EUR 13.8 billion. For programme 103, the training of jobseekers will be allocated EUR 11 billion over five years and EUR 1.5 billion from 2018. At the same time, the unprecedented reinforcement of the Youth Guarantee is one of the right solutions for those who are neither in employment, training nor graduates: it represents 2.8 billion euros over five years, with a non-limitary target of 100,000 admissions per year. Similarly, local missions, the budget of which remains unchanged, are on the front line for the mobilization of this support mechanism for young people. In particular, however, the increase in the appropriations for integration through economic activity and the significant increase of 1000 postal aid for workers with disabilities must be added. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As you will have understood, the convergence and consistency of the reforms undertaken so far will gradually change the characteristics of the labour market. That is why Gilles Le Gendre and I wholeheartedly approve of the budget for this mission, which, without a smokescreen or delay, takes the problem with arms-on-body, in its entirety and forcefully, so that the French again have a chance to regain the road to employment. It's up to you to work with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u9	I'm still dubious...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u10	I call Mr Viry, the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u11	A very good rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u12	Mr President, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a week ago, the enlarged committee's examination of the Mission's appropriations allowed the Minister to answer our questions about the budget that you are presenting to us. These questions are contained in my report for opinion. However, the debate on the amendments has revealed other areas of shadow and, ultimately, this budget remains ambiguous. We understand that he was forced by his inheritance. Indeed, the reduction of EUR 2.7 billion in the appropriations of the "Work and employment" mission, a contraction of 16.6% to 13.7 billion, is less achieved by fundamental reforms than by the sudden halt to the increase in assisted jobs and the contribution exemption programmes introduced by the previous government, which was motivated by the search for statistical results in the fight against unemployment. Despite the failure of this policy, this legacy is felt in the payment appropriations: the settlement of its balance will amount to EUR 15.37 billion in 2018, a decrease of only 0.6%. This budget also shows the volte-face of a government, which has abounded in the summer to increase the number of contracts assisted in 2017, from 280000 to 320000, before giving a brutal halt to this policy in September. Last Tuesday, the minister, I did not get answers to two questions: what method and what requirements will be used to determine which employers can put these contracts in place? How can a requirement for accompanying and training be fulfilled without any appropriation to the beneficiaries of the aided contracts maintained? I will add a third: why reduce by a third the take-over of the remaining 200000 contracts, by jeopardising the economic model of a large number of structures of the social and solidarity economy that employ them? If you want to refocus the aided contracts where they are effective and not make budget savings, it would be helpful to provide us with these answers. This government also seems to be overtaken by its majority, with the urgent need to resume a free job testing scheme adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs. This is a new system of exemption from charges for residents of priority areas of city policy, but without any targeting in terms of age or level of qualification, aimed at both dropouts and graduates of large schools. How can you explain to us that the contracts assisted in the market sector do not work and create nothing but a boon effect, while at the same time supporting from the lips a measure which, according to the OFCE, the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques, will only create a boon effect – 1 billion euros spent per year on 2,2,500 jobs created? In 2013, the previous government had already embarked on a policy without reflection or evaluation, and the result is known: only 280 beneficiaries in a year, due to the competition of the devices and the lack of adequate targeting. I am pleased that, thanks to an amendment tabled last night by the Government, this mechanism will not be financed by an amputation of appropriations financing other actions. But why launch a mechanism that engages public finances with such haste? These pass tricks also concern the adapted companies. The Government intends to honour the commitment made by the previous government in March 2017, by increasing the number of posts assisted by 1,000. At the same time, however, it foresees a 4% reduction in the unit amount of aid to the post and a 18% reduction in the grant for the specific social monitoring, support and training of the disabled person. It may be considered necessary for suitable companies to accompany their beneficiaries towards training and employment in an open environment, but how can we imagine them in this direction by lowering the funds allocated to this support? However, the theme that I have chosen to develop in my opinion report concerns the integration structures through economic activity – the IAE. Their mission is to help unemployed people with special social and occupational difficulties to gradually reintegrate into the labour market. Today, the 3722 contracted IAE structures employ nearly 132,000 employees in the process of integration for a period of 24 months generally. For those most excluded from employment, those with a social minimum or long-term unemployed, they represent a stepping stone towards integration and an opportunity to regain a sense of activity. For communities and those who support them, they represent this hope that, in the face of unemployment, it is possible to move from a passive to an active approach. Since 2014, their financing has been based on postal aid varying according to the type of structure, accompanied by modulation, in theory from 0 to 10 %, according to the criteria of the results obtained in terms of reception and integration. While stakeholders are generally satisfied with this reform, modulation appears to be excessively bureaucratic, without bringing real differentiation according to results, with almost all structures receiving around 5%. Madam Minister, you have not told me what you intend to do to make this modulation more effective, while some reflections have been underway in the department for several years. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The history of IAE initiatives most often reveals a dynamic of territories and people, which creates an ecosystem around economic activity. If the 2018 Finance Bill plans to subsidize nearly 71,000 full-time equivalent positions, or 5,000 additional positions, many of the structures I have encountered have growth potentials that I ask you to support. In the Committee on Social Affairs, I have tried to convince my colleagues that representatives of the nation can move the structure of a budget on the margins in order to defend mechanisms that are very relevant to access to employment. Madam Minister, would you be in favour of doubling this effort, by providing 10000 more aid for the post, knowing that for public finances this effort will be negligible, since it would help to avoid social assistance expenditure?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u14	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Gérard Cherpion, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Madam rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering the first budget for the work and employment of this new Parliament. It is far from being the necessary breaking budget, and rather appears to be a waiting budget that is loosened from the rough and opportunistic politics of your predecessors. The budget for labour and employment remains stable from EUR 15.4 billion to EUR 15.3 billion. In reality, however, it is losing EUR 1.5 billion due in particular to the increase in appropriations for compensation by the State for end-of-service allowances for jobseekers. The main measure of the Government is the drastic reduction in aided contracts. Let us understand, minister: I am not opposed to a solution other than that of assisted contracts. These have often been used by different governments as a means of artificially reducing unemployment. However, François Hollande's government was one of the biggest users of this artifice, which we have always denounced. So we are not going to contradict ourselves today. However, we must say that the brutality of the method seems unacceptable to us. You abounded in the number of contracts helped during the summer, announcing their brutal abolition in August. This announcement without consultation will endanger a large number of actors, whether associations, companies or local authorities. It will also charge those who are currently beneficiaries of these contracts, usually those who are remote from employment and in precarious circumstances. Finally, not only have you taken the decision to reduce the number of contracts assisted, but also their coverage rate, which increases from 72% to 50%. This decision will also put the finances of the actors concerned at risk. A minimum level of consultation on this subject would have been welcome or even necessary. On this point, Madam Minister, you cannot take the argument of the campaign promise, since candidate Macron had never announced such a decline. It was actually Bercy's guillotine that struck. In addition, one of the campaign promises, implemented in the Social Security Financing Bill for 2018, will have a significant impact on the labour and employment budget. The increase in the CSG and the abolition of social contributions will have a direct effect on UNEDIC. However, this body contributes to the financing of Pôle Emploi to the tune of 10% of its revenue, i.e. €3.3 billion in 2016, or 64% of Pôle Emploi's budget. In an enlarged committee, you explained to us that this problem was solved since the decline for Pôle emploi would be compensated by the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies – ACOSS. This compensation is planned for 2018. But will it be for the years to come? It seems that it will therefore be up to the Social Security to compensate for this drop in allocations, before being abounded by the increase in the CSG, whose pensioners in particular will be the victims. It looks like a rustin rather than a thoughtful decision. Why didn't you wait for the UNEDIC and the unemployment insurance reforms to make this major change? On the occasion of the same expanded commission, the majority had adopted a provision that was not provided for by the Government. Thus, the appropriations for all the programmes in this budget are punctuated in order to create a free employment scheme – even if the Government's amendment is changing things. This is an employment bonus for priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy: 15000 euros over three years for permanent employment and 5000 euros over two years for employment in CSD. This experiment would cost €64 million for 2018. This beautiful idea of positive discrimination can be agreed on the principle. We must help to reduce the unemployment rate in priority neighbourhoods, because it is extremely high there. However, is this the right solution? In 2013, the previous government had tried free jobs. The result, which was not satisfactory, had led to the shutdown and subsequent removal of the device. In 2013, free jobs were limited to young people between 16 and 30 years of age; Yours don't have an age limit. Those of 2013 were subject to a qualification requirement; Yours doesn't impose any. No conditions, and a much higher amount of aid than in 2013; All this raises fears of a boon effect. However, France Stratégie, an institution chaired by Jean Pisani-Ferry, proposed, in March 2015, to restrict the scheme to "the least qualified inhabitants in order to avoid the effects of depreciation of the most graduates", to adapt the aid to the duration of the work and to provide for an independent evaluation to assess the effects of bounties. Apparently, the pen of candidate Macron's economic project has not been heard, and that is a shame. In terms of vocational training, this budget is marked by government announcements. The Prime Minister plans to train one million young dropouts in the training component of his investment plan so that 150,000 of them can find a job, as well as one million jobseekers with the aim of also returning 150,000 to work. It is surprising that this plan is not ambitious and only aims to achieve a success rate of 15%. But above all, we must draw inspiration from the previous training plan. In this area, the regions have played a full part, and I can testify to this as a former vice-president of the Greater East Regional Council, a delegate for employment, training and learning. The regions have mainly invested in qualification and pre-qualification training, while Pôle emploi has rather dealt with short vocational training. This plan must therefore be carried out in close cooperation with the regions and in a multi-annual manner. On this subject, Madam Minister, we have asked you several times a question that you have still not answered clearly. Have you planned to transfer the learning skills of the regions to the branches, a project that we hear too often? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a budget that lacks ambition in relation to the objectives, the Republican Group will only be able to vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u16	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u17	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the "Work and Employment" mission of this finance bill is a central mission, as it brings together key issues such as training, access to employment, working conditions and social dialogue. In the context of economic recovery and the control of our public spending, this mission sets strong priorities for employment and integration. We therefore particularly welcome the increase in appropriations for training and the increase in the Youth Guarantee, two essential investments for the future of our country. Investment in skills, especially in the potential of our youth, is crucial to finally winning the war of unemployment. We find in this mission "Work and employment" three clear objectives supported by the MODEM group. The first is to build a skills society through an ambitious reform of training, resulting in an exceptional investment of EUR 13.8 billion in this mission. The MODEM Group welcomes in particular the priority given to people away from employment, both long-term job seekers and low-skilled young people, who will benefit from increased funding for the deployment of the Youth Guarantee. We will be vigilant about the actual increase in this investment throughout the quinquennium. The second objective is the redeployment of integration policies, which are now more targeted towards priority audiences and territories. This is the case for assisted jobs, funded to the tune of 200000 in 2018, which will be redirected to priority sectors such as the health and social emergency and the support of disabled children in schools, and to specific territories such as overseas, rural communities in difficulty and priority neighbourhoods. It is a responsible choice, a choice of efficiency, to better accompany people and ensure their true integration, while not leaving out the sectors that need them most. Finally, the third objective is to improve our public employment service. The MODEM Group therefore welcomes the financial consolidation of the association for adult vocational training – the AFPA – through an objective and performance contract, as well as measures to improve the efficiency of our employment services in a context of budgetary restraint. It seems essential to us that each State department should take part in this effort, while pursuing a logic of modernisation through, in particular, the dematerialisation and readjustment of the staff of the administrations. However, we would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to three points which we believe are essential for the proper implementation of the reforms. Firstly, the MODEM Group is concerned about the sharp and sudden fall in the budget of employment houses. Today, 126 of them play a significant role in analysing the needs of enterprises, in drawing up training programmes, in planning skills management and in the retraining of employees and in occupational mobility. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LR groups]] They operate within our territory in areas that are not always covered by the public employment services. The MODEM Group is therefore not satisfied with the answer given yesterday by the Minister to our colleague's question, and we do not support the choice not to continue funding employment houses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u18	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u19	We hope that a much more gradual reduction will be kept to a minimum. Secondly, while the MODEM Group of course supports the Government's willingness to develop distance learning, we draw attention to the difficulties encountered by some audiences in accessing and handling digital tools. The mastery of these tools requires a number of skills that are not available to everyone. Accompaniment is therefore essential so that everyone can fully benefit from the new tools that will be made available. We expect the Government to put in place effective measures to support access to digital technology, which, if properly used, represents an important potential in the development of training. Finally, the MODEM Group welcomes the efforts made in favour of certain schemes such as the second chance schools and EPIDE, as well as the experiment "Zero unemployed in the territories" which is supported by an upscaling. We also welcome the support given to the integration sector through economic activity, but we hope that this effort will be further supported, as we do not think that the additional 5,000 postal aid will be sufficient. Indeed, the structures of this sector offer effective support to people far from employment, and integration enterprises are regularly forced to create employment opportunities in order to increase their capacity, even though their overall activity is developing. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] In conclusion, we welcome the major reforms initiated in this mission, which will be continued in the coming months, in the areas of vocational training and apprenticeship, but also in the areas of unemployment insurance and pensions. All of these ambitious reforms will make it possible to thoroughly renew our social model and effectively combat unemployment, which must be our top priority. This is why the MODEM Group will vote for the "Work and Employment" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u20	Francis Vercamer, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u21	The existing...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u22	Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, Madam Minister, it is a very curious impression that the first budget of the five-year labour and employment mission leaves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u23	I'm not making you say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u24	Indeed, our group can easily subscribe to a number of stated objectives. However, we regret the method by which certain choices have been announced and made. We also deplore errors in the analysis of the role of certain operators of employment policy. We share your willingness to restore their full effectiveness to assisted contracts, focusing on those who are furthest from employment, particularly in the priority areas of city policy. We support the objective of genuinely facilitating access to vocational training for those who need it most, and of giving a greater share to learning. Nevertheless, the employment policy announced through the figures in this budget suffers from too obvious a lag. First of all, the relative overall stability of the figures, around EUR 15.3 billion in payment appropriations, and the redeployments made within the programmes. The aided contracts are, of course, the most heavily affected, with a reduction in their number to 200000 in 2018. Our group has never considered assisted jobs as the panacea of an employment policy. We have always said, and we remain convinced, that they are only one of the tools that can be used to combat unemployment, provided that they allow their beneficiary to have access to training that validates a rise in skills and leads to sustainable employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u25	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u26	However, the announcement of a drastic decline, starting in 2017 and for 2018, has created a serious concern that remains among the beneficiaries of assisted jobs and among their employers: associations, local authorities or companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u27	Or social centers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u28	Many of them have no solution. We doubt that the rise in 2018 of the "skills investment plan" offers a tangible response to the people involved. We would probably have preferred to step up training obligations by involving Pôle emploi and to allow a "whistle-out" of the scheme, through a gradual reduction in the rate of State support. Then the difference between the stated ambitions and the reality lived in the territories. The subject of associative employment is one example: you are announcing a reduction of 1.5 billion euros for the benefit of associations in 2019, which will undoubtedly allow them to strengthen their conditions of employment, but it is from 1 January 2018 that most of them will be faced with the renewal of their employees, which they will not be able to assume without the support of the State. They rightly demand a moratorium or at least a staggering.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u29	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u30	There is still a gap between judgments on employment policy tools and the reality of their role at local level. You present the houses of employment as outdated and outdated "machins" since the creation of the employment centre. In 2005, however, Jean-Louis Borloo's intuition was that synergies had to be created between the scattered actors in the public employment service. He wanted to develop these synergies as close as possible to the territories, the lives of our citizens, businesses and the specificities of each employment pool.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u31	That was a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u32	For this purpose, it created employment centres, whose role of coordinating local actors in employment policy has not disappeared with the creation of employment centres, if only because it goes beyond this sole operator, who is also often challenged by entrepreneurs. Jean-Louis Borloo's intuition was that by instilling territorial dynamics into employment policies, they would be made more efficient. However, since 2008, as you rightly pointed out in the enlarged committee, all the governments, on the right and on the left, have constantly tried to reduce the means of employment houses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u33	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u34	It is also exciting to see you justify your decision with regard to the houses of employment on the basis of the attitude of the successive governments that have been in existence for ten years, even though the Government to which you belong is constantly denouncing everything that has been undertaken by its predecessors!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u35	Yes, that's a pretty paradox!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u36	Actually, we're in continuity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u37	For the sake of the matter, Madam Minister, you would be well inspired not to join in the continuity of the latter, but to promote the new world; That is why we will propose amendments aimed at preserving employment houses in employment areas where they exist and are effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u38	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u39	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Minister, Members of the Constructive Group are convinced, like you, that the battle for employment can only be waged on a lasting basis as part of a comprehensive policy. This implies a genuine policy of support for investment, the establishment of genuine "flexicurity" and a greater place for social dialogue in professional branches and enterprises. You may have noticed that we supported you on labour market modernization and prescriptions, even though our group felt that we could go a little further, for greater efficiency. We place ourselves in a vigilant, attentive and constructive attitude towards your proposal for reform of vocational training, which in the coming months will reveal to us the content and the part of proposals that parliamentarians will be able to make. But decisively this transitional budget of the "Work and Employment" mission seems to us to be too much in step with the realities of employment experienced by our fellow citizens. It is a more stringent than rigorous approach. That is why the Constructive Group will abstain from the budget of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u41	What if they accept your amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u42	The next speaker is Mr Boris Vallaud, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! "I do not confirm [the] figures [published in the press] because they are not accurate. The budget of the Ministry of Labour [...] is [...] stable. This sentence, Madam Minister, is the one you said at the beginning of September when the press reported a significant decrease in the funding allocated to the Labour and Employment Mission for 2018. Today, it must be noted that it was the press that held the exact figures because your budget is down by 1.5 billion euros, and the worst is yet to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u44	It's still embarrassing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u45	To justify this decline, you are relying on an improvement in the economic situation, which we all hope to see. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic situation will not be enough to reintegrate the 2.5 million people currently excluded from the labour market. And it is to be feared that those who have already been the first to suffer the crisis will be the last to benefit from the recovery. Because in reality, Madam Minister, this budget "Work and employment" for 2018 is that of all dangers: social danger for the farthest public from employment; financial danger to the structures that accommodate these people; territorial danger to many public services in communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u47	First of all, in the middle of the summer, without any consultation, you decided to remove 140,000 assisted jobs. This decision is brutal vis-à-vis the beneficiaries of these contracts: on the grounds that they are in "false jobs", you decide to make them real unemployed. This decision alone summarizes how you view those who occupy these jobs, these real jobs – not assisted jobs, but jobs that help us, all of us, by the missions they carry out.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u49	To those you've hurt and humiliated, I'm saying it's not up to them to look down. This decision is also brutal vis-à-vis the actors of solidarity who have never been consulted on this indiscriminate and generalized planing. The strong argument that you put forward to defend the decline in the number of assisted contracts is the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in contributions. First, the drastic decrease in the number of assisted contracts comes in 2017, while the transformation of the CICE is only planned for 2019. On the other hand, the drop in employer contributions will not be equivalent to the take-over of assisted contracts, as many associations with assisted jobs do not have employees. The truth, minister, is that many associations are now under threat.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u50	Yes, that's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u51	[["That's not true! » on many benches of the REM group]] Finally, this decision is brutal vis-à-vis our territories for which the consequences will be serious and irreversible. They will no longer carry out their essential tasks in this territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u52	It's true and wrong at the same time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] What you claim to give in endowments of one hand, you take it back from the other. To justify the abolition of aided contracts, you denounce the costly nature and inefficiency of employment integration. You keep mentioning a positive exit rate in employment of 27%. We continue to recall that this figure is false and that the direction of the animation of research, studies and statistics, DARES itself, in a note last March, indicates a positive exit rate in employment of 41% for contracts in the non-market sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u54	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u55	It's your own services that say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u56	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] In 2015, the additional 60,000 assisted contracts resulted in a net creation of approximately 21,000 jobs according to DARES. On the basis of this false and caricatural diagnosis, you oppose the contracts assisted with training. But this opposition is sterile. There is not a miracle solution but a multitude of solutions for dealing with various situations. And for those who are furthest from employment, everyone knows that the triptych of support, vocational training and job placement is indispensable. This has been recently recalled by national officials of several anti-exclusion associations. Some of them are in the stands of our Chamber tonight; I would like to greet their presence. Secondly, Madam Minister, I would like to say that you are not honouring the commitments made by the State. Here I want to talk about policies for the employment of people with disabilities. In March 2017, the State signed a responsible and efficient development contract for the adapted sector, providing for the creation of 5000 additional jobs between 2017 and 2022 within the adapted companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u58	However, the 1000 postage aid which should be provided for the 2018 budget is not financed and the accompanying and development grant paid to adapted companies falls by €7 million. At its annual press conference on employment last Monday, the Association des paralysées de France expressed its deep concern and spoke of a real coup de masculine. The unemployment rate of persons with disabilities is twice as high as that of valid persons. While you have made this narrowing of the gap one of the priorities of your quinquennium at the interdepartmental committee last September, you do not hold this objective today and drastically reduce the number of assisted contracts, of which I recall that 11% are occupied by a worker with a disability. And you put the adapted companies, which employ 80% of disabled workers, into the dry system: according to the National Union of Adapted Enterprises, there is a shortfall of 17 million euros – less than a day of ISF performance – in the budget to enable them to continue operating under the same financial conditions as before, while creating 1000 additional posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u59	These are political choices!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] Finally, I would like to refer to the structures of integration through economic activity, which now allow 140,000 people to be employed every month. An increase in this budget would support projects ready to start and support effective schemes; But you don't increase it. Major cuts in aided contracts, deterioration of the State's financial support for job integration schemes, failure to comply with the commitments made by the State... A budget, Madam Minister, is a little unconscious of a policy: when we examine it, we find all the fantasies of power. Your budget, when you look closely at it, is the image of society as you dream of it: a society cut in half. On the one hand, the winners, the "first of the ropes", to which no one imagines throwing stones; on the other, those whom you abandon to what you believe to be their fate as losers. For all these reasons, we will vote against this 2018 "Work and Employment" budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u61	What a talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u62	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u63	Come on, Eric!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u64	Mr. President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, this is the "Work and Employment" budget; You put it as one of your priorities, and yet you cut it by 1.5 billion euros. It is also true that you want to persuade us that you are devoting tens of billions to employment: I am talking about the 9 billion tax gifts to capital, the 20 billion retained for the CICE before turning it into a definitive reduction in employer contributions. In short, rather than public employment policy, you prefer the invisible hand of the market, which, as by miracle, has to turn gifts to capital into jobs, via the investment box. For the last 30 years, we have always had the same rengain, which has resulted in a decline in the revenue of the State. It does not bring jobs, but we find the colour of this gabegie, in euros, in the "Paradise papers" and the "Panama paper", with the corollary of the decrease in public spending. With this programme, Madam Minister, we are at the heart of a sad paradox: while the unemployment rate reaches 10%, the employment budget is reduced by 10%; While the unemployment rate reaches 10%, the allocation of the employment unit is reduced by EUR 50 million. You are taking a repressive stance towards the unemployed, as if they were responsible for their situation. What more do you not control the effect of the CICE on employment, since the MEDEF had promised 1 million jobs in return for this measure? You are abolishing the funds from the National Employment Fund, one of the tools that showed their usefulness in terms of conversion – it had helped to accompany the conversion of Lejaby's employees. As for the aided contracts, from 479000 in 2016 according to the budget executed, you plan to bring them to 200000 in 2018; This is the largest social plan in the history of France, with the elimination of 279000 jobs at the key! We will all pay for the consequences of this situation, starting with the EHPADs – accommodation establishments for dependent elderly people – the crèches, associations, local authorities, businesses in non-market sectors...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u65	Social centers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u66	You tell us that assisted contracts do not help with integration. Yet, as my colleague Boris Vallaud has just pointed out, 67% of aided contracts in the merchant sector lead to employment after six months, 41% in the non-market sector. You tell us that you will replace these devices with training, but on the model of learning: the boss becomes the teacher, that is what you propose to us. By the way, you are undermining one of the flagships of national education: vocational education. You are announcing a major investment plan of EUR 15 billion, or EUR 3 billion per year; Yes, but this year only EUR 1 billion will be spent on training. This policy, which one might say of Gribouille if it was not dramatic, is only a matter of DIY, and will generalize precarization. You are in the process of overthrowing one of the pillars of the social state inherited from the National Council of Resistance, i.e. public policies in favour of employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u67	If you want to return to the sources of social security, you must restore the universality of family allowances!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u68	We will all, Madam Minister, die of this liberal bleeding if we fail in time to put an end to it. I hope that we will be able to do so in the weeks or months to come, with the help of a social movement. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] Minister, this budget is not up to the situation. As you will understand, we call on the House to reject it. In fact, the appropriations for this mission represent your second bad political action, after the ordinances aimed at destroying the labour code. A few months after these orders, you seriously weaken public policies in favour of employment: I must say that after six months, for a minister of labour, we have never seen worse results!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u69	Mr Pierre Dharréville, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u70	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for the work and employment mission belongs to the same category as the budget for the housing mission, namely the budget for the sacrificed budgets. Indeed, you are planning a €1.5 billion decrease in appropriations for 2018, but this is just a start, as you plan to continue this path in 2019 and 2020 with a further €3 billion in cuts. We must come to the consequences of the widths that you have given to the wealthy and to the world of finance. In the context of mass unemployment, in the context of more comprehensive reforms aimed at making the labour market more flexible, such budgetary guidelines are all the more devastating. The question of employment is central, as is the question of work. However, this repressed, repressed budget is first and foremost an austerity budget that will weaken some of those who are already the most fragile. He'll do it by two channels. First, the division by two of the number of assisted contracts, one of the first thundering and untimely announcements of this quinquennium, will leave traces. If the formula of assisted contracts is not a panacea, the brutality of this immense social plan without accompaniment will not be without consequences. First of all, for the people concerned, who are in the process of being integrated, who find themselves in difficulty overnight. They are not just figures, not just statistics; They felt humiliated by the way in which their work, their investment were considered. That is why we will propose an amendment to increase the number of assisted contracts to 330000. Brutality then for the structures that employ them in order to meet useful social needs. Several hundred such contracts are used by social centres in the Bouches-du-Rhône department. Less aided contracts are less community-based public services, less personal services, less resources for associations and the cultural world. At the moment, however, no serious measures have been planned to accompany the social consequences of these job losses, including for certain administrations such as national education. Secondly, we note with regret the reduction of the envelope dedicated to adapted enterprises which contribute to the occupational integration of 26,000 people with disabilities. You are sending a very bad signal here, at a time when the unemployment rate for these people is 22%. Thirdly, this budget is also a budget for weakening the public employment service. If the resources of local missions are renewed in 2018, this is not the case for other actors in public employment policy. Thus, after several years of shortages, the subsidy from Pôle Emploi is reduced by 50 million euros and its workforce is considerably reduced. This will have consequences for the support and reception of the unemployed: the needs will not disappear because you have decided, and despite your strong confidence in the economic decision-makers, your measures will not have the almost magical virtues you lend them. I would also like to refer in a few words to the situation of employment centres. You plan to divide the appropriations allocated to these structures by two and bring them to nothing in 2019, on the grounds that they would double with Pôle emploi. You therefore definitively sign the State's disengagement from territorial arrangements which have nevertheless shown some effectiveness in terms of territorial management of jobs and skills or local economic development. You leave the local authorities with the burden of these structures, whereas they are already heavily penalized by the drop in the allocations. The EUR 11 million you withdraw from employment houses, you use them to finance a well-hurried experiment in favour of "france jobs", which will cost the unit much more than the jobs you help, and will benefit businesses. In a context where we should strengthen the support of the most fragile, these guidelines aimed at weakening the public employment service seem counterproductive to us. Finally, I would like to alert you to the situation of the staff of the Ministry of Labour and the DIRECCTE – the regional directorates of business, competition, consumption, labour and employment. After four years of restructuring, it is still planned to abolish 239 posts in 2018: the situation has become untenable, and will worsen with the ordinances in preparation. The Labour Inspectorate's services are once again targeted. In such a constrained budgetary framework, how will inspectors be able to carry out their task of monitoring the application of labour law, a right that will become increasingly complex after the ratification of the Labour Code ordinances, which we are about to discuss? In a letter dated 17 October, the inter-union office of the officials of the Ministry of Labour called upon you to freeze the abolition of posts and to stop the restructuring. Madam Minister, what are you going to say to them? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] For all these reasons, as you understand, the members of the GDR Group are opposed to the budget of the Labour and Employment Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u71	The next speaker is Mrs Monique Iborra, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u72	That's the voice of the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u73	Left on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u74	That's enough, the invectives!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u75	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, this budget, which we could call a transitional budget, is part of a context of a resumption of economic activity, but also of a commitment to long-awaited structural reforms, but for some incompletely achieved to date, whether it is the ordinances amending the labour code or the consultations that you have launched, Madam Minister, in the field of unemployment insurance, vocational training and apprenticeship. In this context, some would like to increase the appropriations for this mission, as if it were enough to make it an effective budget! The budget that you are presenting to us aims at refocusing the resources on the integration of the most vulnerable people and territories, with the aim of making employment less precarious through training and qualification. This is what you are proposing for assisted jobs: 200,000 jobs in 2018, attributed by the prefects, as close as possible to the territories and the public concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u76	In truth, you don't want any more of these helpful jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u77	This return to free jobs is a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u78	It is the employment of young people that you comfort with the Youth Guarantee, the schools of second chance, the centres of EPIDE. You prefer devices that are proven to be effective, while speaking to the most difficult people, those that have too often been left at the edge of the road, even when the devices were first thought for them. I would like to dwell for a moment on the skills investment plan, included in the major investment plan, which aims to combine economic competitiveness and the creation of sustainable jobs with a return to employment of today's low-skilled people. This approach can only be conceived in line with the school and university training, which is being reformed. Your ministry is on the front line to develop vocational training and alternance – which now includes apprenticeships and professionalization contracts – by linking vocational training and guidance. We need this coherence, since today the competences are still very divided and scattered between the State, the local authorities and the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u79	That's why we need job houses!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u80	But when will he shut up?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u81	I'll speak if I want, Madam Chair of the Commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to the speaker...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u83	These public policies are not always simple, Madam Minister, to be understood by the actors themselves, let alone by our fellow citizens – even though they should be the first beneficiaries! That is why we wish with you to make them evolve, transform them, simplify them, in accordance with our commitments and those of the President of the Republic during the campaign. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group - Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The stakes are immense, the work intense, but the commitment of our group is total. We say what we do, and we do what we say. We didn't choose ease. We hope with you, Madam Minister, that the results will live up to the ambitions we have for our fellow citizens. This budget is a first step; it will be followed by several others. We will accompany you with conviction and determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u84	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. I have before me a question from the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u85	Minister, the investment plan for training includes a component on distance learning. As a result, 250,000 distance-based training schemes are planned in addition to the million training schemes which will be financed for low-skilled jobseekers over the five-year period. We very much welcome this type of initiative, with distance being mentioned as a barrier to training by 20% of jobseekers. However, I wonder how such a measure could be implemented, given the obstacles that exist for this type of training. Participation in distance training requires the proper equipment, the proper use of it and the ability to master the French language. These three conditions exclude a significant part of the public away from employment. In addition, persons residing in areas described as "digital deserts" may also be denied access to distance training. Minister, can you tell us what the content of these trainings will be, and what kind of audience will be given priority? What accompanying measures will be provided to enable low-skilled people to access distance learning, which is a real opportunity? What structures will take care of the people taking these courses? [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] It also seems to me that basic training in computer science and also in French is needed in addition to these distance training courses, so that they can be made accessible to as many people as possible in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u86	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u87	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question on the skills investment plan. You have understood this: it will be a major element in the transformation of our policies, and first of all in this budget. Today, the most common feature of the unemployed is the lack of qualifications. The unemployment rate for people with a baccalaureate + 2 and above is 5.6%; For those without qualifications, this rate is 18.6 per cent. Our primary responsibility in the fight for employment and against unemployment is to enable all young people, all job seekers, to receive training of labour market value, so that the resumption of growth is an opportunity for them. That's why we designed the Skills Investment Plan. This is our priority for the quinquennium: you see the budgetary consequences. What will be the content of this investment plan? It will have several aspects. We will open a lot of discussions on this subject, launch a lot of consultations with all the stakeholders: the regions – as mentioned earlier – which have an important competence in this area because of decentralisation, the social partners, the professional branches. The recovery in growth is robust and sustainable: everyone has seen that in this context, the number of jobs in tension and the number of skills required is increasing very strongly. It is therefore necessary to direct jobseekers towards the corresponding qualifications, as well as to be able to finance longer training courses leading to genuine qualifications. [[Applause on a few benches in the REM group and on several benches in the MODEM group]] A section will also be devoted to supporting the major digital and ecological transformations. With regard to digital transformation, there are three issues at stake: the first concerns basic digital skills, which concern everyone, because it will take them tomorrow to be a player in the labour market, whether you are a job seeker or a wage earner; the second is the skills sought by the digital industry, which recruits enormously and at all levels, from CAP to the resource engineer; And the third, the major point, is the growing importance of the digital dimension in all current jobs – it is estimated that 50% of jobs will be transformed in the coming years – which will make it a priority. Distance learning is a possible modality; In order to succeed, it usually has to combine with the presentel. I agree with you, Madam Member: it cannot be a mere distance learning, it is only one of the elements of the palette.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u88	The next speaker is Mrs Ericka Bareigts, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u89	Minister, let me go back to the method that led to the decrease in the number of contracts assisted. In the middle of the summer, on July 10, the Minister of Public Accounts announced, with brutality, their drastic reduction. Associations, municipalities, retirement homes, cultural institutions, parents of students with disabilities, social and medical-social centres are astoundingly discovering that they will no longer benefit in the coming weeks. In the face of an unprecedented sling from the communes of La Réunion to the Restos in the heart of Grenoble, on 24 July the Government improvised a budget extension, but, unable to satisfy everyone, it then decided to refocus the remaining aided contracts on the non-market sector and on four priorities: the accompaniment of students with disabilities, the social and health emergency – itself broken down into several priorities –, the overseas and the rural communes. By this choice, you raise more questions than you solve, you divide more than you unite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u90	It's improvisation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u91	Unfortunately, since these September announcements, we have no information. First question: what will be the distribution of jobs in these so-called priority sectors? Second question: for the only priority that the overseas countries will constitute, how will the distribution between the territories be established? Third question: can you confirm to us the words of your colleague Annick Girardin, according to which there will be in the overseas countries the same number of aided contracts in 2018 as in 2017? The fourth question is: what will be the rates of State ownership and the maximum duration of these so-called priority contracts? Question 5: Are the priority neighbourhoods of city policy a priority of the Government for assisted contracts? The Prime Minister did not mention them, but your colleague Jacques Mézard did. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] Minister, we are on November 8, 2017, and always in the most complete blur, both on the envelope of aided contracts dedicated to specific territories and on the envelope dedicated to all priority sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u92	That deserves a precise answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u94	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u95	[[Applause on many benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the banks of the NG group]] [[Same movements]] Madam Member, thank you for your question, which will allow us to explain once and for all. I am extremely surprised that such a statement, which I understand on the ground, comes from the New Left... I would remind everyone that under the previous legislature, the National Assembly, at the request of the then government, had voted for an extremely sharp reduction in the aided contracts in the initial finance law for 2017, increasing them from 460000 to 280000, with instructions to the prefects to spend 80% of the appropriations budgeted from the first half of the year, which they did – because they are disciplined – by contacting the communes themselves to encourage them to take aided contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u96	The continuity of your policies is no longer hidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u97	The minister alone has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u98	Some assisted contracts are effective, others not. There is a big difference in this from place to place. Associations and communes have done a great job of accompaniment in the integration, in the spirit of the new assisted contracts that we want to set up, but elsewhere many people have mistakenly believed that they will be helped to integrate, while they are already precarious and on unstable jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u99	But many are perpetuated after!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u100	That is why we want to put order, to make a distinction between assisted contracts that can really be a springboard, which requires accompaniment, training and experience, and the others, which are just for convenience.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u101	What a shame to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u102	[[Exclaims on the banks of the NG group]] As for the funding of associations, this is another subject. I fully intend that it will be legitimate to deal with their budgetary balance, and that is why the payroll tax credit will bring them close to 600 million euros in 2018 and that they will receive 1.4 billion euros the following year through the reduction of expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u103	Anything! That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u104	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Therefore, while the problem of the association budget should be addressed, it is not necessary to encourage precarious employment which does not allow for integration. The Government aims at effective integration for job-seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u105	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u106	Get in the field a little bit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u107	You live in a bubble!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u108	Mrs Caroline Fiat, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u109	Madam Minister, you want to cap the compensation for unfair dismissal in order, in your opinion, to reassure businesses. To this end, in mid-October, you even posted a simulator on the Ministry of Labour's website, which allows you to estimate the amount of damages an employee can obtain from the workers. By allowing companies to budget for redundancies, you are seriously threatening several freedoms. First of all, you take over the judge's responsibility. The Reuters agency tells us that, according to a survey by the Paris Bar Association of its 28,000 members, 63% of lawyers are opposed to the scale. To the question of whether this augurs for "more predictable and serene" labour relations, the negative answer is 75%! In order to be entitled to compensation, the damage must be assessed individually, depending on the situation of the employee. Moreover, many unions strongly oppose this unfair article, fearing that it will open the door to all abuses. Finally, many lawyers expect increased recourse rates, as will attempts to circumvent legislation on grounds of derogation: violation of fundamental freedom, harassment or discrimination. You're talking about security, but there's no security for employers or employees, because security is built on trust. In this way, you are again testing the elasticity of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Constitution, when you know very well that article 266 of the Macron Act was already intended to establish a baremization and that it was censored by the constitutional judge because this provision did not take sufficient account of individual situations, contrary to the principle of equality before the law. Your measure, Madam Minister, is unfair, clientelist, probably unconstitutional. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On the contrary, legislation needs to be strengthened and made more legible, rather than weakening the chances for both parties to reach a fair verdict, i.e. full compensation for harm. Why didn't you choose this path?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u110	Because their program is the jungle!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u111	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u112	The scales, Madam Member, do not have budgetary implications and therefore do not fit exactly into the budget discussions, but since you want me to answer you on this subject, I am happy to do so, as I have done on several occasions before your Committee on Social Affairs and here at the time of the examination of the enabling law. First of all, I would like to make a legal correction: the Constitutional Council had validated the principle of the scale of compensation, but not the difference in scales according to the size of the company because it would have created a situation of inequality of rights between the employees concerned. The scale is a fairly common practice in many countries. The establishment of a floor and a ceiling of allowances, known to all, give visibility to the company and also to the employee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u113	To the employee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u114	... in the context of greater transparency, while giving the judge discretion. I think that this will produce, as in other countries that apply such a system, more conciliations, which is still in everyone's interest because for an employee who loses his job, wait a year, or even two years, a judgment of the prud'hommes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u115	We need to increase the number of counsellors!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u116	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] ...is preventing him from projecting into the future. The visibility is good for the company, but also for the employee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u117	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u118	My question, Minister, is about Program 102 on access and return to employment. The 2018 general budget includes an unprecedented programme of investments in skills: 13.8 billion euros mobilised on the quinquennium, with the aim of providing access to employment for two million people. As far as youth is concerned, I would like to emphasise two reinforced variations: 4000 young people between the ages of 16 and 26 will be integrated into second chance schools and 20,000 in EPIDE. These schemes offer technical as well as social support, promoting vocational integration. As far as long-term jobseekers are concerned, the low level of qualification increases, as is well known, the difficulty of gaining access to employment. We welcome the long training process, between six months and nine months, which enables us to acquire real skills and qualifications. Integration also involves a dimension that often kills: that of the acquisition of professional postures and relational skills expected by recruiters. In seven out of ten cases, however, the reason for the refusal to hire is the mismatch between the expected and perceived attitudes; It's a key to integration. It is expected that 200000 new contracts will be entered into in the non-market sector in 2018. We would like this mechanism to be called upon for the real integration of these young people and the long-term unemployed, prioritising certain areas of activity. Finally, integration through economic activity is a logic of occupational integration combined with a social dimension whose success is no longer to be demonstrated: integration undertakings, temporary integration undertakings, intermediate associations, workshops or integration sites, controlled by neighbourhoods, all these arrangements contribute in a concrete and effective way to gradually reinvigorating the social and professional qualifications of people in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u119	The minister wrote her question, it's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u120	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] With almost 100 million increases in the appropriations allocated to improve the arrangements for vocational integration, I would ask you, Madam Minister, to give us the concrete ways of redistributing funding and what will be the guidelines for public policies for integration through economic activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u121	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u122	Madam Member, you pointed out that not all situations are the same. It is necessary to be able to set up personalized paths and, in order to do so, to have a range of tools to respond to different situations or aspirations. Like you, I would like to start with the case of young people. How can France agree in 2017 to have 1.3 million young people who are neither in initial or continuing training nor in employment? It is an absolutely incredible human waste and a loss of economic competitiveness, and almost a renunciation of social cohesion if we accept such a situation. That is why the Government is making a great deal of efforts in favour of these young people, as you will see in the course of the apprenticeship reform, but now the EPIDEs, the second chance schools and the Youth Guarantee, which we are increasing, are essential elements implemented by the local missions and all the mechanisms of the public employment service. And then there is the Skills Investment Plan, the two main priorities of which are job seekers and young people, especially young people without qualifications, because it is the gap in this area that does not allow them to access sustainable employment – at best they are experiencing a succession of CSDs or temporary jobs – to a real economic and personal autonomy. [[Applause on many benches in the REM group and on some benches in the MODEM group]] The challenge of qualification is therefore one of the key elements. But some, as you have mentioned, may not yet be ready to enter into a qualifying approach. This is why there is a need to develop integration schemes with a great deal of support, which leads to the question of behavioural learning, social codes, and it is true that it is also a factor of unequal access to employment. Indeed, it is not only professional skills, but also knowledge of social codes that allow, as part of a recruitment process, to be recognized for its value. Because these young people have a value, these young people have a potential. And our common job is to enable them to show this potential, and to succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u123	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u124	The President of the Republic made unemployment a priority of his mandate during the electoral campaign. To address this challenge, the Government has mobilized many levers, be it savings, oriented towards productive investment, the revival of purchasing power for employees or the training plan that will be discussed shortly. In this fight against unemployment, improving the quality of employment and labour relations was also one of the challenges of the reform of the Labour Code discussed during the summer. My question will be about programme 111, which is precisely about improving working conditions. This programme is expected to increase by 10 per cent next year. We are all convinced of the need to take action to improve the working conditions of employees. They contribute to the competitiveness of companies by avoiding turnover, by enabling them to attract efficient employees, and by facilitating economic transformations. They also guarantee the emancipation of individuals through work. In short, for a company to invest in working conditions is to increase its efficiency. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] So, as a result of the reform of the Labour Code, one of the objectives of which is to strengthen social dialogue in the company, could you give us details of the priorities you intend to focus on in Program 111, Madam Minister? Have you also planned to check the improvement of working conditions within companies? How do you intend to proceed?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u125	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u126	Mr President, your question has both budgetary and non-budgetary aspects. On the budgetary side, as I said earlier in my opening remarks, we will strengthen the resources allocated to the training of professional advisers and support for social dialogue. More broadly, all the mechanisms that enable the social partners to play their full role are among our priorities in this budget. Apart from the budgetary aspect, you know that I entrusted Gilles Gateau and Jean-Dominique Simonpoli with a mission to strengthen all the means dedicated to the training and recognition of the skills of trade union delegates and elected staff in order to encourage the career development of the latter. If we absolutely want to strengthen social dialogue, and that is the purpose of the ordinances, then the actors must be given the means to play their full role. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In addition, the creation of the national observatory and of observatories for analysing and supporting tripartite social dialogue at departmental level will enable us to monitor all these changes in work, to measure the evolution of social dialogue and its strengthening in enterprises of all sizes and in all sectors of activity. The Social and Economic Committee, the new provisions for enterprises with fewer than 50 employees, the strengthening of negotiations at company and branch level are indeed a profound transformation which I believe will be extremely positive but which it is important for the State and the social partners to follow up in a transparent manner. Of course, we will report to the National Assembly and, more broadly, to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u127	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u128	I call the appropriations of the "Work and Employment" mission, entered in statement B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1034.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u129	This amendment should be considered in connection with Amendment No 1033 which comes later in discussion. In our discussions in the enlarged committee, we discussed an essential question: how to combat the barriers to employment that many people in the working-class neighbourhoods can face. Studies and analyses show that with equivalent degrees, ages and career paths, it is more difficult to gain access to employment when living in certain neighbourhoods. To put it clearly, the neighbourhood of origin, social origin are factors of discrimination. The fight against such discrimination is an important campaign commitment of the President of the Republic and the deputies. The "france jobs" scheme will thus be implemented in all the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy – QPV – as of 2020 in the employment budget. However, the Government decided to anticipate this implementation by experimenting with a limited number of territories in 2018 and 2019 in order to strengthen the efficiency parameters of this measure before generalizing it. Why experiment instead of generalizing immediately? Because a different experiment took place in 2013 under the same name, and there was general agreement that it did not produce the expected results. You have to learn from his mistakes, which are not just failures. We will therefore modify the terms of the scheme: the aid will be differentiated according to the contracts – CDI or CDD –, it will be more important for the CDI, the accompaniment will be strengthened, and we will aim for an insertion in the contracts of common law with a lasting commitment. The experiment will involve four or five groups of neighbourhoods. Our objective is to achieve a system that is particularly effective and generalizable throughout the country. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] To this end, Amendment No 1034 opens the corresponding appropriations for Programme 103, which are assessed for the 2018 financial year to the tune of EUR 180 million in commitment authorisations. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this commitment will not be offset by the decrease in other appropriations from the "Work and Employment" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u131	An emblematic measure of the presidential programme, the launch of new free jobs in the form of a premium of 15000 euros for companies hiring a resident of the so-called priority neighbourhoods in CDI or CSD is a major measure of social cohesion. The Special Rapporteurs thus recall that this is a policy of positive discrimination in favour of the inhabitants of the most difficult neighbourhoods. In this regard, it should be stressed that the future arrangement will be simpler and certainly more decisive than the one that was put in place between 2013 and 2015. Indeed, in view of all the restrictive conditions for access to the latter, very few contracts had finally been signed. An experiment will be launched in 2018, as the Minister has just indicated. This amendment therefore provides for commitment authorisations and payment appropriations on the Mission's programme 103, and we can only give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u133	In view of the importance of the government amendment we are discussing, I will give the floor to a number of speakers. Everyone will understand that this cannot be the case with the other amendments. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u134	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all of a sudden, by way of an amendment, the free jobs come up. Yet they belong to the old world: President Hollande had tried them, and we saw the result. Because it was too targeted, the device was not effective. He who had imagined President Hollande's economic policy became President of the Republic. He proposes the same thing at worst: it is the continuity between two jupitian-inspired presidencies. Your device is not targeted at all, Madam Minister: there is no age limit, no specific qualification. It will have a real boon effect. "At the same time", the Government proposes €11 million in payment appropriations. "At the same time", the majority group The Republic on the move proposes €64 million in payment appropriations in an amendment that comes into discussion just after it. What do you call experimentation? Is it small or large? Is it close to generalization? That's a strange measure, anyway. The main question is the method. It is a truly strategic issue if we are to pursue an effective employment policy, which we are all committed to, that is to say, an employment policy that does not forget any applicant from any territory. When is a fair system for jobseekers in rural and rural areas, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u135	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u136	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The latter are also penalized by their lack of mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, our Republic must give a chance to all the forgotten in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u137	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u138	Madam Minister, because this policy has long been expected in the neighbourhoods, especially the QPVs, because it is a commitment of the President of the Republic, because your proposal is simpler but still an experiment, that is to say will be evaluated before being generalized, we withdraw the amendment identical to that of the Committee on Social Affairs which was adopted in the enlarged committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u140	It's the debandade! It's even a step backwards!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u141	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u142	Minister, it is with great interest that I analyse your amendment. I myself had defended a measure of this kind some ten years ago in this House, and would therefore be in a bad position to challenge it today. I had indeed considered implementing such a mechanism in the neighbourhoods in difficulty, not only the priority areas of the city's policy, but also those which, without being given priority, face social difficulties, because, as you know, the perimeter of the city's policy has been severely restricted during the last legislature, and the populations in difficulty do not necessarily find themselves in it. I will mention a few figures to give you an idea of the situation, ladies and gentlemen. For my part, I am a member of Parliament for Roubaix: 42.3% of Romanians live below the poverty line, and this is the case for 51.2% of those under 30 years of age. The unemployment rate in Roubaix was 31 per cent in 2013, and has increased by 16 per cent since then. Since these neighbourhoods are extremely impoverished, it is necessary to rely on a discriminatory employment policy, because without these measures the inhabitants would not find work. That is why I am defending assisted jobs, Madam Minister. It's not out of ideology; It is because in these neighbourhoods, unfortunately, these are often the only ways to find employment for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u144	As for free jobs, this other provision that you intend to implement, we, the Constructives, will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u145	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u146	Madam Minister, first of all I am obliged to go back to the answer, in my deplorable view, which you gave to our colleagues earlier on the matter of aided contracts. The French who today are confronted with your decision, the associations, the public services who live, work with people in assisted contracts do not deserve such an answer, which keeps in a political way to remind who did what. You've made the decision, take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u147	We can't assume anything in this majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u148	We have all found that you intend to take responsibility for it. On this issue, whether you like it or not, the questions that have been asked for several weeks and that have been repeated this evening remain valid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u149	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u150	Are the foundations of your decision right? Is the method painless? How will your decision be made in the days, in the weeks to come? We are still waiting for clear answers to these three questions, which would merit a substantive debate. [[Smile]] This also applies to the subject of this amendment, namely, free jobs, a slew of free zones, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u151	These are terms of the old world!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u152	... true microcosm of a third-world economy, exceptional experimentation again in exceptional territories. But where is the common law that your Members and our colleague from Marseilles are asking for you loud and clear?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u154	I will allow two more speakers to speak. We will then be able to consider that the Assembly is sufficiently enlightened. Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u155	Madam Minister, I am very pleased to hear your amendment on free jobs tonight; I am pleased, above all, to hear the voices of the people's neighbourhoods in this Chamber on this occasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u156	You forget about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u157	Yes, you forget about rurality!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u158	To say that we are national representation commits us to represent the entire nation, including the least favoured territories of the Republic, which are overwhelmed by unemployment. If I tell you this tonight, Madam Minister, it is because for several months we have been trying together to support companies in social dialogue. We have given them the means to create jobs, to develop, to seize new opportunities. Now that companies know that they have our trust, this amendment allows them to honour it. Indeed, we want those living in working-class neighbourhoods to gain access to these jobs, to take advantage of these opportunities, and to be able to develop their projects as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u159	Words, words!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u160	To do this, companies must now commit, and we are going to help them this evening with this amendment. Free jobs are a bonus of 15000 euros over three years for an employer, company or association, who hires in CDI an employee living in a priority neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u161	It's a boon effect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u162	This is a strong response to an injustice that you know, Minister, and which several speakers have recalled, characterized by a much higher rate of unemployment in these neighbourhoods than elsewhere. Is it normal for a resident of Cergy to send twice as many resumes as a resident of Paris?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u163	In Cergy-le-Haut or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u164	The members of La République en marche do not think so. It is proven that a resume with a good address can triple the chances of getting a job interview. A few RER stations must no longer have such consequences in a life course. [[Exclaims on the benches of the NG and LR groups]] Contrary to some of the comments made earlier, the device presented this evening draws lessons from the past. It is more readable, simpler and, above all, much more incentive. Instead of contenting ourselves with assisted jobs that have never left anyone out of unemployment for a long time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u165	You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u166	...or even assign those who occupy them in their neighbourhood of origin,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u167	That's completely wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u168	... let's help those living in these neighbourhoods access sustainable jobs! The young people I meet...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u169	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u170	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and NG groups]] [[Same movements]] I'd like to testify first. I had the chance to be hospital director, mayor and employer. I have made use of all the job schemes that have been helped. I can certify that they are a formidable gateway to employment, especially for young people. The words I heard earlier about them seem to me completely out of the ground, ridiculous and absurd.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u171	We are debating free jobs here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u172	With regard to the mechanism that you are presenting, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a question and make an observation. Here's the question: what is the area and population involved? Indeed, the perimeter of the city's policy was reduced during the previous legislature. Who are we talking to? What is the geographical area concerned? We do not know the scope of application of the device presented. We would like that to be clarified.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u173	It's not serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u174	[[Murmures on the benches of the REM group]] Now here's the observation. I am fortunate to be elected from an economically dynamic territory with an unemployment rate of 6%. Yet some of our fellow citizens who live there are experiencing extraordinary – and lasting – difficult situations because they are individually deprived of access to employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u175	The neighborhoods are 35% unemployed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u176	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and NG groups]] What shockes me is that in a comparable situation some people will be helped and others will not. This means that the device does not take into account individuals. The notion of republican equality is absent, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u177	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u178	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u179	I will provide some clarifications to inform national representation. What is the aim of the free employment scheme? First, they reflect the republican values that we all share here. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Discrimination must be combated because, on the basis of equal qualifications – or non-qualification – those who live in a stigmatised territory or neighbourhood do not have the same access to employment as others. That's the first objective! Which neighborhoods are concerned? In the four or five departments where it will be conducted, the experiment will focus on all the neighbourhoods that fall within the scope of the city's policy, which will allow for a broad vision of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u180	What about the rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u181	As Mr Taché pointed out, aid will be targeted at the neighbourhood rather than employment, which can be offered elsewhere so that no one is placed under house arrest in his neighbourhood, so to speak. It is precisely the person who counts; It is she we want to extract from the stigmatization in which she locks up the place where she lives. So if she gets a job, in her neighbourhood or elsewhere, she'll get help.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u182	What if she moves in three years?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u183	We are indeed confident that her talents will be recognized once she works in the company that recruited her. The aid mechanism will enable the process to begin. The amount of this will amount to three times 5000 euros for a CDI and two times 2500 euros for a long-term CDD. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The aim is not so much to help employers as to set foot in the stranglehold of some job seekers by correcting the harm they suffer as a result of unfair stigma attached to the neighbourhood in which they live. Philosophically and in accordance with republican values, we should all agree on this objective!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u184	Don't forget the rural people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u185	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 131.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u186	It aims to stem the decrease in the appropriations allocated to the "Access and return to employment" programme, which will result in the disappearance of 140,000 assisted contracts. Of course, we all know that these are not a viable long-term solution. They have nevertheless been implemented and used, in particular by our communes, which have entrusted real public service tasks to individuals with difficulties of integration. To challenge them is to take the risk of ending these missions and social cohesion projects without replacing them. Aware of this risk, the Minister entrusted a mission to a recognized specialist in the social and solidarity economy, Mr Jean-Marc Borello, whose proposals are expected by the end of the year. Let us give them a year to study, which will allow our local communities to prepare for the future. In other words, this amendment proposes to adopt a moratorium on the planned abolition of many assisted contracts, which would improve the chances of success of the Borello mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u187	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u188	The Employment of Persons with Disabilities Week begins on November 13th. What message will we send to all those whose integration we want to improve and who are suffering the drastic reduction in the number of contracts helped? Moreover, the effectiveness of assisted contracts cannot be measured solely by the number of CDIs signed at the end of the contracts. Stabilization of a family situation, social recognition, enrichment of a social network, feeling of utility accompanied by a resumption of self-confidence: all this is not numbered but counts! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us give local authorities and associations time to prepare! Let us postpone this debate to the next finance bill, enlightened that we will be by the conclusions of the Borello mission!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u190	Very wise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u192	It should first be recalled that the number of new contracts assisted under the 2018 Finance Bill amounts to 200000, compared to 280000 in the 2017 Finance Bill. In addition, the budget for jobs supported in 2018 will fund many jobs for the future that have already been committed. In addition to this reminder, we fully assume the decision on aided contracts, which is explained by two observations. On the one hand, 70 per cent of those assisted in the market sector were reportedly hired without assistance. This is therefore an important boon effect, all the more unjustifiable as economic growth is going up again, leading with it to the net creation of nearly 300,000 jobs in a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u193	It will be the same with free jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u194	And with the CICE, there's no bounty effect, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u195	On the other hand, the rate of integration into sustainable employment – lasting more than three months – following the aided contracts of the non-market sector amounts to 26%, or less effective than the training mechanisms, which allow for a more sustainable integration into the employment of their beneficiaries. The reduction in the number of aided contracts will make it possible to provide the necessary resources, to the tune of approximately EUR 500 million, to increase the appropriations for the Youth Guarantee and for training of jobseekers under the 'Investment plan for skills' in programme 103. Therefore, your amendment proposing a moratorium on the reduction in the number of assisted contracts cannot be accepted, my colleague. We don't have time! The committee therefore delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u197	With regard to aided contracts, I recall that the priorities set for the end of 2017 will be maintained in 2018: in terms of territories, rural areas, neighbourhoods under city policy and overseas areas; In the field of public health, special attention will be paid to persons who are furthest removed from qualifications, regardless of their age, as well as persons with disabilities and those in the health and social sector. As a result, no aided contracts will be signed in the other sectors. Indeed, Jean-Marc Borello, who will make his conclusions at the end of the year, has already made good progress on some issues. We therefore clearly distinguish certain municipalities and associations which carry out a tremendous work of accompaniment, integration and training of young people benefiting from assisted contracts. The rate of 26 per cent mentioned above is an average. In the case of extremely precarious jobs, it is close to 40%. The aim cannot be to give hope for work to people in precarious situations who will only obtain one month's acting time at the end of their contract. Therefore, our system, like all integration schemes, takes into account only the sustainable integration rate. In fact, there is rarely a rate of 26%. Here it is 0 per cent, that is 70 per cent. Some associations carry out remarkable integration and training work. These, we will continue to help them, because they offer a real chance to people far away from qualifications and are a real springboard to employment. As we remove aided contracts in the merchant sector in order to avoid the effects of bounty, made more likely by the return of growth, we will, with 200,000 aided contracts, have the means to carry out quality work, which we will be able to realize in some time. In any event, the conclusions of Jean-Marc Borello will be immediately made public, which will allow for a very calm and concrete debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u198	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u199	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group - Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] "The future of every young person depends first on access to employment, on work rather than on assistance. This is why [it is not desirable] the employment policy is to offer young people in difficulty "parking" training courses, assisted contracts which do not actually contribute to their sustainable integration into employment or, even worse, the addition of allowances". Perhaps you have forgotten this, colleagues of the Republican Group, but this is the project that you defended about six months ago! He's still on the line!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u200	You too, Mrs. Bergé!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u201	Then you were with us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u202	We are listening to each other, colleagues. Mr. Bazin, Mr. Furst, we listened to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u203	[[Same movements]] The big difference between you and me, ladies and gentlemen, is that I know why I did not support François Fillon, and that, having no short memory, I remember his project!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u204	That you first supported!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u205	When you supported Alain Juppé, before betraying your camp!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u206	[[Applause on several benches of the REM Group - Exclaims on the benches of the Republicans Group]] The big difference between you and us is that we did not propose the elimination of all the jobs helped six months ago to defend them today, as you do by demagogic opposition to the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u207	Eat fish, it's good for your memory!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u208	Who betrayed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u209	Stop the provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u210	[[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] In particular, we want to sustain assisted jobs in areas where they are necessary and useful, in priority neighbourhoods, overseas areas or large rural areas, in order to ensure the sustainable integration of young people into employment by developing apprenticeship and vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u211	Alain Juppé supported them when he was Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u212	You've changed your speech in six months, that's not our case! We're holding the same speech...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u213	Talk to the assembly as a whole or to me rather than to some of us, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u214	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I would like to address the whole assembly, Mr President, but as I am constantly interrupted by the same, I am inclined to address them! We are holding a coherent and unchanged speech of proposing the maintenance of assisted employment where it is necessary and...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u215	Thank you, dear colleague. Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u216	Madam Minister, I would like to re-establish the figures on aided contracts in recent years, not from the original Finance Act, which is a bill of intent, but from the budgetary truth that is legible in the Settlement Act. Between 2012 and 2016, between 400,000 and 460,000 assisted contracts were voted each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u217	And realized!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u218	Half of this was done in the context of the initial finance laws and half in the context of the amending finance laws or advance decrees in the course of the year, for adjustment purposes. That's what's always happened! That's the budget truth! You say that assisted contracts are expensive. In the Loire department where I am elected, there are about 5000 of them, 70% of which are attributed to long-term unemployed people and 20% to RSA beneficiaries. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] An aided contract costs the State between 6000 and 12,000 euros; A long-term unemployed person costs unemployment insurance between 15000 and 20000 euros, according to ATD Quart Monde. Madam Minister, you want to favour the long-term unemployed, at the expense of aided contracts, which are cheaper. The cost of a young person in EPIDE is 26700 euros per year, that of a young person in apprenticeship, 15000 euros per year. The Youth Guarantee or the School of Second Chance is 6000 euros a year. Compare what's comparable! [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] You're talking about an ineffective device. The future jobs you are about to remove were highly qualified: over three or four years, they allowed for the transfer of qualifications and diplomas, and 50% of beneficiaries returned to sustainable employment after six months. The return to employment rate of employment initiative contracts – CIE – exceeds 60% and that of employment support contracts – CIE – is 41% – 4% are in training. As far as efficiency and cost are concerned, it is no less so than other integration or return-to-employment schemes. You won't be able to prove otherwise. Assisted contracts are useful economically and socially, for our communities and for the community, and you will reduce them by 40%!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u220	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u221	The reduction in the number of assisted contracts has raised concerns in a number of local and regional authorities. Thanks to the aided contracts, they, particularly in rural areas, can secure the assistance of human resources and provide services of general interest, which they could hardly finance. Corsica, a mountain island, has a majority of low-income rural communes, where the population is ageing and where social needs are all the more important. That is why I will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u222	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u223	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the NG and FI groups]] Madam Minister, I agree with your speech when you talk about orders in the Committee on Social Affairs. But now I think you're wrong, and with you, the Government and the majority. You are mistaken because you have forgotten that behind these helped jobs there are simply men and women. I mean it! These people over 58 years of age, who have no choice but to take a job helped to complete their professional career, do not understand that they are told that it is finished, brutally and for no reason. For them, it's a real disaster. For these precarious young people, who fail to find a normal job and need to be accompanied through assisted jobs, it is their job situation that is ruined. Minister, you talked about the medical and social sector. Following Monique Iborra's "flash mission" on EHPADs, we wrote to the Minister of Health urging her to suspend the removal of assisted jobs in institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u224	For 2017!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u225	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For having interviewed several of them, I can assure you that the prefects, whatever they may be, are unable to respond to this request, because the appropriations allocated to them do not allow them to do so. I would like to know the status of this request, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u226	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u227	In order to go in the direction of Aurore Bergé and temper the comments made by my colleague, the criterion of rurality in the allocation of assisted jobs was clearly stated by the President of the Republic at the end of August.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u228	She's an above-ground MP!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u229	Our plan is to relaunch vocational training, as this is the only way to combat unemployment. However, in some rural areas, where there is a low density and where people are very disadvantaged – this is the case with me – where local authorities and the voluntary sector have very little resources, it has been decided to retain assisted contracts that serve social but also territorial objectives. It is therefore two areas that have been targeted, rurality and the overseas territories. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The objections of the opposition do not have to be: if we reduce the number of jobs assisted, we devote substantial resources to vocational training. Rurality is not at all forgotten in this plan and remains a high priority. We do not deny the problems we face in very rural areas, with people very far from employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u230	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u231	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and LR groups - Protests on the benches of the REM group]] Madam Minister, if you were on the right and on the left, you would listen to what the Republicans and Members who sit on this side of the House are saying. Unfortunately, you're neither on the right nor on the left, you're nowhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u232	In the stratosphere!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u233	He's an expert talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u234	The life in which you claim to be is not the life of our fellow citizens. This debate is not mediocre, it says who we are, what society we want to have, with whom we want to build it, who we consider to be losers, who we consider to be winners. You made a choice. You say, "growth is coming back, these people will have sustainable jobs." But it is Laurent Furst who is right: even in the departments where employment has returned, where the unemployment rate is low, there are people for whom assisted jobs are one foot in the chain, the only solution to find a job. What jobs do you want to create tomorrow, for whom? You say you want to replace these jobs with training. But what training for a 58-year-old, and for what job? What will be the company that will hire behind? How will he get a decent end to his career?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u235	We can train at any age!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u236	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] We can train at any age, but it's hard to find a company that takes you back to age 58. If you lived in the real world, you would know that it is very difficult to find a job after 50 years! [[Applause on the benches of the NG and LR groups - Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] Minister, you mentioned four priority areas. I think I understood in the government speech that one of them was disability. But you don't even cover associations that aim to help people with disabilities. The Association des paralysées de France, which we have received today, reports that thousands of jobs for people with disabilities will disappear. That contradicts your speech. That's the whole problem: in the mouth, sometimes you're not bad, but in writing, you're still fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u237	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u238	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] We are talking about fellow citizens who are in a precarious situation. Sending to the figure that some would know the reality and that others would know nothing about it is just unworthy of the national debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u239	Ungrateful, but so true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u240	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] For my part, I have been working with associations for forty years, I have led one of the first local missions in France, I know very well the network of associations, I meet associations every week and I am aware of their situation. In view of the extension we made in 2017, there are 239000 non-market contracts. Next year, they'll still be 200000. We do not operate a drastic reduction, we focus on those who actually invest in accompaniment, which will put the people who benefit from it in a position to succeed. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. - Protests on the benches of the NG group]] For the dignity of the debates, let me make this point. I am sorry that the New Left has the only argument that we should have pursued the budgetary insinuity condemned by the Court of Auditors and Brussels!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u241	On Amendment No 627, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 627.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u242	We will continue the debate on this subject, which is very important. I would ask you, my colleague, to listen to the helpful ex-job that is addressed to you tonight. After cutting off funding to reduce the number of contracts assisted in 2017, the 2018 Finance Bill is only planning for 200000. Of the remaining 200,000 contracts, the take-over rate will decrease from 72.5 per cent to 50 per cent and future jobs, created by the previous Government to focus on training, are completely eliminated. This policy is dangerous: associations, EHPADs, local authorities, schools, integration enterprises and traditional businesses find themselves in great difficulty because of the loss of these jobs. Beyond these fragile structures, tens of thousands of people find themselves unemployed: the Government is thus guilty of the greatest social plan in the history of France. His ideological vision even leads him to weaken the timid recovery of employment observed in recent months. It's a low blow to the local economy! The aim of this amendment is therefore to increase the number of aided contracts by 150000 at a cost of EUR 1.2 billion. For this purpose, it takes the corresponding means from the appropriations intended to finance the exemptions from social contributions for apprentices, knowing that the law in any case obliges the State to pay the amounts corresponding to the social security bodies. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The goal is to save jobs, services to the population, and tens of thousands of associations, which risk putting the key under the door. Avoid the collapse of the social and solidarity economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u244	[[Exclaims on the banks of the NG group]] The reduction in the coverage rate from 72.5% to 50% must be seen in the context of a broader economic policy, which includes the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in social contributions, which will benefit all the associations that were previously excluded from it, as well as the application in 2017 of the tax credit on the tax on wages, which benefits the non-profit sector. This decrease in the take-over rate will also reduce the substitution effect that sometimes occurs, including in administrations, where it is preferable to wait for an assisted contract rather than to recruit from a position. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u246	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u247	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u248	Minister, it seems to me that you tend to delay the temporality of the debate. There is something curious about your political decisions: you break the machine first, before thinking about how you will replace it. What we've been talking about for a while now is not the substance, the purpose or the future of the aided contracts, it's the break that you're doing before you've even found alternative solutions. This temporality, which you cannot perceive, is implausible! On the other hand, the criteria you have set out are inapplicable. Ask your prefects, minister, as we did a few weeks ago in our departments and in our regions. They told us that they were unable to apply all the criteria. There is no point in displaying criteria if the stock does not meet everyone! There's no solution. Finally, Madam Minister, you do not have the right and the legitimacy to distribute the right points of dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u249	Neither do you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u250	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, NG, FI and GDR groups]] If you want to talk about dignity, think about the one that you're losing to the people on a helped contract, for the months and years to come, breaking the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u251	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u252	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Someone has raised the risk of a boon effect, about these assisted jobs, in the merchant sector or elsewhere, no matter what.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u253	It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u254	That won't change my argument, don't worry. There is indeed a boon effect in the market sector: the CICE, which costs several billion euros – twenty at the bottom – but which has only created or saved 200,000 jobs, at best. And you are refusing an amendment that could give a job to 150,000 people for 1.2 billion euros! It's a boon or not, it doesn't matter! You are embarking on vague explanations, invoking billions of super-fetitudes, sustainable employment, etc. The truth is, you're making fun of the world! [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] I share Mr Pradie's argument about temporality. Imagine that you had two glasses, one containing assisted jobs, the other lasting jobs, and that you wanted to transfer the content from one to the other. In your haste, you overturn both and throw everything down.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u256	[[Smile]] It's runoff!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u257	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You've already started this summer. In what disarray did you throw the prefects and the heads of the Pôle Emploi antennas! I met with the departmental head of the Northern Employment Department. He had learned the news in the press, like us, and had found himself having to announce, overnight, that he could no longer renew assisted jobs, without further explanation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u258	It's improvisation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u259	It is called cynicism and it is unacceptable. Unfortunately, you are persevering in this policy, not to mention France Strategy's report, which revealed the lack of a direct correlation between employment and skills development. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If you want to create jobs, spend billions on them through your investment plan!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u260	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u261	You have reduced the number of assisted contracts from 400,000 to 200000, but above all, you have reduced the coverage rate from 76% to 50%, which is much more dangerous. You place a heavy responsibility on communities that will have to reduce the number of jobs assisted by much more than half. In fact, the communities will not follow financially and the mayors will have to deal with the revolt of jobs helped in the face of jobs that still exist but cannot be filled. Madam Minister, you're lighting up the powder box in the DOM. In a few months, you will have to return to the rate of 76% by street force, if not by Parliament's.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u263	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u264	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] [[Same movements]] I have the right to speak! I was elected democratically, just like you! Are you so embarrassed that a former assisted job is expressed in this House? Minister, I support the words of my right-wing colleagues: you take the ladder off before you build the stairs. You said that you are particularly concerned about overseas and disabled people. However, last week I met in La Réunion, two mothers of families. Hundreds of disabled children can no longer go to school because of the lack of assisted jobs. I can introduce these people to you whenever you want, Madam Minister! Their distress is unimaginable. Forgive my emotion, but the reality is terrible on the island of Reunion, as it must be, certainly also, in Hexagon. You have again stated that health is your priority. However, how many associations in Réunion, in this sector, such as EHPAD, are in great difficulty and cannot survive?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u265	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u266	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] We are talking about human lives, about services to the population: we must take the time to express ourselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u267	I put to the vote Amendment No. 627.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u268	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 837.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u269	Mr. Wulfranc will wait until his colleagues have decided whether or not to remain in session, knowing that the defence of this amendment by the Communist Group will not last until the end of the two minutes, in the light of the debate that has just taken place. You sliced and camped in your positions, deaf to our call. However, if I recalled the position of a member of your group, Member of Parliament for Marseille, who is sitting on these benches today, it is that we would have thought you could hear us, understand us and join us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u270	Don't overestimate them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u271	You're optimistic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u272	A number of our colleagues have reminded him to the left of this House. This debate is going to last, we will have to explain ourselves to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u273	It's already done!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u274	Well, if the Republic on the move considers that it has already explained itself on this massive plan of redundancies, good days are coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u275	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 776.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u276	It is obvious that our choices and political commitments are not yours because our conception of assisted jobs is radically different. Behind these disembodied figures are people hiding. Mélina, who was employed in a retirement home in the Landes, had a real job, accompanied by schedules, constraints, obligations, responsibilities, work of which the social utility of the elderly was no doubt. Emma, in Brest, who shared her work time between homework assistance in a college and a position as a territorial agent specialized in a kindergarten, also had a real job.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u277	They'll be sacrificed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u278	Yes, these jobs make it possible to build career paths. No, local elected officials are not clientelists. They work on a daily basis to develop public services that are useful to all. No, there is neither bounty nor cynical opportunism, but more jobs, especially in the non-market sector. Assisted jobs represent real jobs, for real people, very often in sectors where the market does not meet the needs of the population, in territories most of which are in great difficulty. As you inherit an improved economic situation, an unemployment which has been falling for more than a year, you choose to organize, without consultation, without accompaniment, in a strictly accounting and ideological logic, France's largest social plan. It is for these hundreds of thousands of women and men in assisted jobs, for their families, for their dignity and their professional future, but also for all the services they render daily to other hundreds of thousands of our citizens, in the name of a completely different conception of solidarity and justice, that we propose this amendment to keep a high level of jobs helped for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u279	Is Amendment No 782 defended, Mrs Bareigts? He posted the same summary statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u280	I want to speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u281	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u282	This debate concerns all our fellow citizens, throughout the country, to the overseas countries and territories. Let's take it easy. The DARES figures, even if they show the usefulness of these assisted contracts, will not change your mind, Madam Minister, nor will the evidence on the ground, which goes back on these benches, on this side of the House, as on the other side. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Someone's been talking about assistance. However, there is no question of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u283	It's a real job!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u284	The men and women we receive, who have helped jobs, in establishments, in the market sector, in the non-market sector, are men and women who get up in the morning and want to work, who want to get out of it. The aided contracts, for those furthest from the professional world, are a chance to get up, to regain self-esteem. The aided contracts rebuild men and women who, for years, have forgotten what it was like to get up. [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Thanks to associations, which do extraordinary work, thanks also to certain communities and societies, these men and women return to the path of dignity, rise up, rebuild, and reflect on their children as fathers and mothers. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Do not shake your head, ladies and gentlemen, because that is the reality. These are the men and women we meet.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u285	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u286	I, too, have met mothers in disadvantaged rural communities. Fortunately, these areas are not forgotten and will still be able to benefit from these 200,000 assisted contracts. Rurality remains our priority. [[Exclaims on the benches of the NG and FI groups]] The associations will also be involved. The Minister recalled that of the 236,000 contracts planned in the non-market sector, 200000 will remain. We are far from the abyssal fall you describe! [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] On the other hand, fortunately, we do not rely on the only contracts helped to enable people, madam, to get up in the morning, to regain their dignity and to go to work. This project contains many other measures that contribute to this objective. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u287	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u288	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u289	We'll take stock!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u290	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u291	Mr Vallaud, you are talking about Mélina, but I am thinking of all the companies in the home help sector that are not recruiting. Ms. Mélina could very well go to help Denise or Renée, in the merchant sector, where she will earn her living and regain her dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] As for our colleagues in the Republican Group, I ask them if they know who said this: "The planned state funding does not correspond to a productive and qualitative expenditure on employment. It will inflate the deficit, thus weighing on the springs of growth, without guaranteeing a real professional future for the young people concerned". It was François Fillon, in 2012, about the swelling of aided contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u292	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u293	Associations or companies face two problems in transforming assisted contracts into sustainable contracts. This is primarily the austerity budget, especially for associations. In what mess have we put the associations down by lowering the allocations to the local authorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u294	There's no downsizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u295	And we're still in this way! This is the first problem of associations and the main obstacle to job creation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Since you want to create sustainable employment, lower the retirement age, reduce working time. But you are going to do the opposite: you are going to increase the length of contributions, increase the working time and increase the precariousness. And finally, by increasing the precariousness of work, like what the United Kingdom or Germany have done, you will create jobs in trompe-l'oeil and build an army of poor workers that will be the symbol of the indignity of this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u296	The floor is for Mr Stéphane Viry, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No 768.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u297	We accept that 200000 new entries in assisted contracts in the non-market sector only will be financed in 2018. What is more problematic to me, minister, is the reduction of the state's ownership from 72.5% to 50%, or more than a third of an employer's capacity. In the social and solidarity economy, which works with vulnerable people or in integration, it is necessary to ensure that employers retain economic capacity and that the economic model of the enterprise is not jeopardised by the decline in government support. That is why I am asking the State to maintain the coverage of 72.5% for the year 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u298	That's very reasonable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u299	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u300	I have already explained why we want to keep the reduced rate of State support. We want an effective budget. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u301	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 775.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u302	I wanted to share a somewhat surreal experience with you, minister. I was, yesterday, with the president of the departmental council, the director of Pôle Emploi and the representatives of the state in a company for the purpose of employment, which is part of the ten experiments of "long-term zero-unemployed territories" carried out on the initiative of ATD Quart Monde. We gave the floor to the beneficiaries – people in reintegration – of the first 38 open-ended contracts signed. This initiative of ATD Quart Monde gave rise to a bill that was unanimously voted by this assembly – Laurent Grandguillaume, Member of Parliament for Côte-d'Or was the rapporteur, I was draftsman of the opinion. I recall the arguments we have put forward in this rostrum. We were in December 2015, in the emotion that followed the attacks. We spoke seriously about the territorial divide and the social divide. Yesterday I was in the company of those thirty-eight people who had returned to work and their testimonies were still the same. They said, "We were useless, we have something to tell our children, we will have at the end of our lives an experience to pass on." They were talking about recognition and dignity. None of the people present yesterday thought that the jobs created were competing with some other job of integration by economic activity or the trading sector. These people were out-of-pocket, they became people again by becoming workers. National experimentation will be amplified under your authority, with your support certainly, in the coming years. It concerns a few tens of thousands of jobs. It aims to restore dignity to workers. We have the opportunity, for realistic amounts of budget appropriations, by saving the inevitable carry-over on the RSA and unemployment insurance, to guarantee this dignity. But we're killing her. It's absolutely surreal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u303	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this discussion on assisted jobs, President Olivier Faure, who has since left, invited us to listen to the right and the left. So, for an hour, I listened to the right and left – Mr. Fillon's right and Mr. Hamon's left...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u305	And no one's center!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u306	...and Mr. Mélenchon's extreme left. I have observed very curious convergences, indeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u307	What a contempt for democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u308	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Curious alliance of the status quo – especially don't touch anything and especially not what never worked! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u309	Pass the device and you will discover the real life!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u310	Curious alliance for "spending more" when we want to spend differently and invest more in skills and qualifications. Curious alliance of factory compassion instrumentalizing assisted jobs, while we want to bring their beneficiaries to sustainable and sustainable employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u311	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u312	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Curious alliance, again, of inefficiency, since you all carry – right-wing and left-wing majorities for twenty years – employment policies that have been constantly ineffective, which have brought unemployment to ever higher levels without ever succeeding in reducing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u313	In your borough, you don't have that kind of problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u314	Yes, a great divergence separates us: we want to change employment policies, try new, efficiency-oriented measures...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u315	We'll take stock in a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u316	Mr Special Rapporteur, thank you for concluding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u317	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Indeed, we do not feel solidarity with the convergence we have observed for an hour in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u318	Come to departments in difficulty, with 20% unemployment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u320	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u321	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u322	I'd like everyone here to respect each other. The extreme left exists in France, but it has no elected to the National Assembly. It would be useful to know the movements and parties. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] As for the colleague who referred to home help, I would like to point out to her that the social auxiliaries – AVS – have a diploma, they have a training. We're not making a move on AVS! We don't improvise to go to Denis and Serge's to make a toilet. We need to train people, help them get up again in the morning. It's called aided contracts, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u323	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u324	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Mr Special Rapporteur, like you, I have been listening for an hour on my bench patiently to what I cannot call a debate. A debate requires an exchange of ideas. Here, as the minister said, there are not those who know the land and those who do not know it. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I grant you, you know the economic situation of the country, the associative life, the social difficulties and those of the youth, but you have made a political choice, which you assume: you are walking on the political line that you have decided, to erase existing arrangements without taking into account the experience of the citizens, without replacing them or establishing bridges to leave no one at the edge of the road, as you have said. Your policy is to give priority to the rich and to relieve employers by reducing social contributions. In fact, you made the choice of contracts to help the richest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u325	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u326	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u327	Madam Minister, earlier, you gave us a great lesson in morality. Mr rapporteur, I was extremely shocked and unpleasantly surprised by your words, disrespectful...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u328	Arrogant!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u329	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] ...to those who do not think like you. If you are fully legitimate in your position, you do not represent the whole of France. France is rich in its diversity and, in this Chamber, it is rich in the expression of each other. Learn to respect it and you will be respectable yourself! You're legitimate, I said. You are to decide to reduce the number of jobs helped in this country – you have the majority and the time. But there is one thing you cannot deny: this decision has consequences for society, for the lives of our fellow citizens. What are the jobs helped if it is not to set foot in the stirrup of some, allow others to get the head out of the water?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u330	Oh, no, not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u331	That's what you're going to reduce, that's what you're going to destroy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u332	You've changed your mind about helping jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u333	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I want to remind you of one simple thing: behind public policies, there are lives. I would like us to take into account the lives of our fellow citizens...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u334	It's the truth that hurts!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u335	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] ... those who are the most fragile, those who have difficulty expressing themselves and those who are not heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u336	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u337	The Special Rapporteur argued that associations which would be deprived of assisted contracts would be able to benefit from other measures, such as lower employer contributions. This response is evidence of a lack of knowledge of what associative life is today. France has just over a million associations. Of these, 85% only work with volunteers and 180,000 are female employees. For the latter, several measures have already been taken: in 2014, the reduction of € 20000 on the wage tax for associations with between two and twenty employees; last year, the wage tax credit – the equivalent of the CICE for the non-profit sector. The associations we refer to are small associations that live with many volunteers and a few assisted contracts. Without these assisted contracts, the balance, particularly in financial terms, is not assured. It is they who will be sustained and massively impacted by the abolition of 45 per cent of aided contracts. We must look at the reality: these associations do not have the means to finance traditional jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u338	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 505 and 1083. The floor is for Mr Stéphane Viry, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 505.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u339	A moment ago, Mrs Iborra said that she was withdrawing the amendment adopted by the committee. It seems to me, however, that it is up to me to bring the floor of the committee and to support the amendment. Nevertheless, the Government has passed an amendment, which aims to create free jobs, and which more significantly abounds in the machinery that had been voted on in the Social Affairs Committee, without reducing the budget of the mission. This amendment was adopted. In addition, the authors of the amendment which had been adopted by the committee tabled an identical amendment No. 1083. In these circumstances, I withdraw the amendment from the committee and leave it to Mrs Iborra to present her amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u340	Mrs Iborra, you are therefore withdrawing Amendment No 1083.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u341	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 777.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u342	The structures of integration through economic activity now allow 140,000 people to be employed each month. For these people who are far from employment and often disqualified in the eyes of employers because of the duration of their unemployment and social problems, these structures remain one of the only ways to gain access to employment in the short term and to stop the spiral of exclusion. According to the Employment Guidance Board, there are now 2.5 million people who are long-term away from the labour market and, even if the economic recovery is there, they are too far away from employment to benefit from it. These people need not only training, but also support. For, to be able to take training, one must have regained the self-confidence that one loses when one is in a position of exclusion. Trust is essential because in the course of training, one is obliged to confront failure. We're also led to make mistakes. This is also why assisted contracts are great tools for returning to employment. The amendment aims to abound action 02 "Improving employment arrangements for people furthest from the labour market" by EUR 60 million and to reduce the appropriations for sub-action 03.01 of action 03 "Employment development" of programme 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u343	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u344	I do not agree with the amendment, but certainly not with the principle that guides its authors, because all of us here are in favour of integration through economic activity. Only this is not limited to the IAE budget line. Pôle emploi also makes a lot for integration. Aided contracts, as we want to transform them, will also act in this direction. On the IAE line, the subject of the amendment, the 2018 PLF provides for 840.3 million in AE and CP, which is 30 million more than in 2017; 5000 additional postage aid will increase the number of postage aid financed to almost 71000 ETPT. Support for the post will be valued taking into account the increase in the SMIC by 1.43%. Of course, we can always do more, but we have made it clear: it is not necessarily by spending more that we spend better.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u345	Banker's speech...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u346	Finally, integration will be supported by the training plan. So she's not the poor parent of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u347	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u348	Same opinion as the rapporteur, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u349	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u350	The draft finance law for 2018 provides for a reduction of 50 million euros in the subsidy for public service charges allocated to Pôle Emploi. This decline is not only a violation of the agreement reached between the State, the Employment Centre and the social partners when the tripartite agreement on unemployment insurance was signed, but, while the unemployment rate is still close to 10%, a detrimental reduction in the means of the public employment service. It is also taking place at a time when the Government is preparing to enter into negotiations with a view to extending access to unemployment insurance to resignations and self-employed persons, which they do not even ask for. How can the Government expect an effective public employment service, while it still diminishes already limited means: at present, the average number of jobseekers followed by each counsellor sometimes amounts to about 200 or 300 people? The amendment aims to restore the level of the subsidy to Pôle Emploi by transferring EUR 50 million to the action "Improving the public employment service" of the programme...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u351	Thank you, Mr. Ratenon. We get it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u352	I can finish, can't I?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u353	We got it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u354	Then explain to me what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u355	That is the point on the amendment. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u356	It is true that the public service expense subsidy paid to Pôle Emploi will fall by 46 million in the 2018 budget, but you know as well as I do that this organization also benefits, for about two thirds of its resources from a total budget of 4.5 billion, from the Unédic's annual contribution, set at 10% of the contribution base. This contribution will increase as a result of job creation, which has resumed in our country at a rate of 300,000 per year. As a result, Pôle emploi will receive an additional 60 to 70 million, which will more than compensate for the decrease in budget allocation. Overall, therefore, Pôle Emploi's resources will increase in 2018. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u358	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u359	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 785.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u360	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u361	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 511.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u362	I come back from a word about the argument that I developed earlier. There is a dynamic in favour of the IAE because, under the previous mandate, support for the post had been increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u363	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u364	I can only reformulate my proposal, minister. Having felt that many members of the Committee on Social Affairs wanted to push this momentum and amplify this movement, I propose to double the number of additional posts opened in 2018, that is to say to abound the corresponding appropriations of 30 million. Enterprises in the integration sector through economic action are in demand. They have the capacity to respond. In addition, the measure would avoid social expenditure, since the appropriations would constitute a more active public expenditure than the payment of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u365	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u366	Unfavorable notice, for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u367	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u368	We are increasing the budget for integration through economic action by 6%. We all agree that this is an important mechanism to enable people away from employment to return to work. However, the expected increase seems sufficient. I look forward to Jean-Marc Borello's report on all the mechanisms, which are not limited to assisted contracts, and to thinking about how to support them. When I talk to their representatives, economic integration companies say that the only thing they lack is to be able to add training and qualification once people are mature. It is necessary to start with the activity, but at some point a link will have to be made with the skills investment plan. All this is dynamic. I await the conclusions of Jean-Marc Borello to know precisely in which direction to go.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u369	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u370	Mr President, I did not want to ask for the floor for a point of order, but my speech will be close to it. You confused speed and haste by interrupting Mr. Ratenon earlier, when he had not finished his speech. No meter is displayed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u371	Mr. Ratenon had far exceeded his time by two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u372	That's your point of view. I don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u373	Wait...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u374	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I say to you: either we are allowed to speak, or we will ask for suspensions of sittings or public ballots on each amendment. So I invite you to a little discernment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u375	We have understood things perfectly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u376	We still have to respect the chairman of the sitting!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u377	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 626.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u378	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u379	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u380	With a view to speeding up, I shall confine myself to expressing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u381	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 778.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u382	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] I have not yet expressed my views on assisted jobs. I will do so by defending the amendment. Minister, many of those in assisted employment may have been shocked by what has been said about them for months, as well as by the terms that have been used. We talked about jobs that were of no use. It's time for these people to hear another message. I turn to them to say: yes, these jobs are useful; Yes, they have their full place in society.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u383	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u384	The amendment agrees with Mr Viry's proposal, since it tends to increase IAE's appropriations by EUR 30 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u385	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 783.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u386	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u387	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 784.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u388	The aim of this amendment is to abound by EUR 11 million the action 03 "Employment development" of the programme 103 "Supporting economic change and employment development" to the benefit of local support schemes. Everyone is aware of these DLAs, which will be particularly needed in the current context, in support of associations and the structures of the social and solidarity economy. DLAs provide professional support services for the technical and financial consolidation of voluntary employers and those of economic integration. They are the subject of a financial partnership between multiple actors: the State, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the European Social Fund, regions, departments, municipalities and intercommunalities. Because the state must not send a sign of disengagement, we ask you to vote on these credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u389	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u390	This is actually a perimeter measure. The appropriations for local accompanying arrangements, amounting to 8.6 million, are transferred to programme 159 of the mission "Ecology and sustainable development", the management of which is the responsibility of the Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. The appropriations are not simply abolished. The amendment is therefore not relevant. I suggest you take it off. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u391	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u392	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u393	Do you maintain the amendment, Mr Bricout?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u394	No, Mr. President. I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u395	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 430.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u396	We come to an important point in the article: the future of employment houses. In our country, there are structures whose action is underestimated. In this case, Madam Minister, you have underestimated the role of employment houses, since you are proposing to halve the aid they receive in 2018 and completely eliminate it in 2019, which will be the year of their planned death. This is another sacrifice that you are asking our territories after all those we have already mentioned. Such a decision reflects a complete lack of knowledge of these houses, which play a role of proximity as close to our territories as possible and ensure a forecasted management of the needs of companies in terms of know-how and labour. I would add that only these houses manage to bring together all the actors, from the prefecture to the professionals of employment, around the table to build tailor-made solutions. In our territories, especially in rural areas, which are the furthest from employment, this can be crucial. It is paradoxical that the Government, at a time when it claims to win the battle against unemployment, removes one of the main tools for combating the inadequacy of skills to the needs of the territories and against unemployment at the local level. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This abolition is unanimous against it: the mayors, the local actors and the professionals concerned are opposed to it. With this amendment, I give you a chance to make up for your mistake. It's up to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u397	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u398	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u399	We are opening the debate on employment houses, which are the subject of several amendments. I'll answer more completely on the first one. For the rest, we'll notify. In recent years, the debate on employment houses has been recurring, during the debate on the budget. It should be noted, for history, that these were created in 2004, when Unédic and ANPE had not yet merged to create Pôle emploi and digital tools for job search support were less developed than at present. All the structural and methodological reforms that have taken place since then have reduced the need for services provided by these houses. In addition, and perhaps most importantly, evaluations have shown that their performance is very uneven across the country. Some can take concerted and useful action with local employment actors, while others do not really add value and contribute to the dispersal of public employment services. The government's choice for 2018 is to reduce aid to these houses, in order to allow a gradual withdrawal from the state, according to an action plan to be defined in the territories, in connection of course with the territorial authorities and the employment houses. This response corresponds in the nomenclature to a transfer to local and regional authorities and other authorities. Employment houses are supported by these communities. This is also the case for most of those that work well and are usually located in the major cities, which will not get away from it. For others, decisions will be made on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u400	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u401	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u402	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u403	In the same dynamic as Mr Di Filippo, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the REM Group, that you are wrong to be surprised that people on the right and on the left can agree on these matters. It is even there, it seems to me, the matrix of your movement. I'm surprised that it's your astonishment. Before I came to the bottom, I was very surprised, Mr. Legendre, to hear you talk about "fabric compassion."
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u404	It's theater!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u405	Perhaps you will have to apologize at the end of the debate. This false compassion does not exist in us. In any case, I have not seen anything like this in any group in the House during this very worthy debate. The employment houses seem to me to be a genuine public innovation, since they carry out a forecast management of jobs and skills, GEPC, able to associate the IAE, those working on the development of the company and those working on the assisted contracts, in a real territorial dynamic. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and LR groups]] This true innovation, Jean-Louis Borloo had dreamed of it, we have implemented it in the territories, and we intend to have the means to perpetuate this action, of which we see the great usefulness in everyday life. I was deeply concerned by the rapporteur's statement that, in metropolitan areas, these houses will remain no matter what happens, while in rural areas they will be done on a case-by-case basis. But what does it look like? Where's the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u406	It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u407	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u408	What can be added to the excellent words of our colleague Potier? When we have a health problem in our territories, we are promised Google screens. When we have a job problem, we are told there are digital tools. Tomorrow, when we have a problem with a school class, we will be told that we need to create a digital class. I increasingly feel that there are sub-citizens in the running Republic, especially in rural areas. You really underestimate the role of employment houses, which are there to build tailor-made training and solutions so that people far from employment and metropolitan areas can access employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u409	If they walk, they'll stay!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u410	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, NG and GDR groups]] Recognize this role and restore the help they receive so that they can continue to work as closely as possible to those who, in our territories, really need it. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u411	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u412	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and NG groups]] [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LR and NG groups]] Within the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, we are in favour of maintaining and defending the houses of employment. We fully understand the logic that you are pursuing, Madam Minister, but we are concerned about the particularity of employment houses. In many territories, based on the evaluation conducted three years ago, we have identified relevant and necessary employment homes. In fact, they accompany people who are far from employment in a personalized way. Today, the Employment Poles are unable to take on this mission. That is why, Madam Minister, we want the status quo: let's keep the job houses a little longer, because they allow people far from the digital world to succeed in finding a job, which Pôle emploi is not able to do. That is why we will vote in favour of the amendment by the LR Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u413	All together!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u414	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u415	I would like to take this opportunity to defend my amendment No 651, which also deals with employment houses. Madam Minister, I have the advantage of having been in this Chamber when creating employment houses. These have not been created, as the Labour Directorate's departments have claimed since then, simply to merge the ANPE – National Employment Agency – and the Assédic – Association for Employment in Industry and Commerce. They were created so that local elected officials could give impetus and momentum in the territories. Their role is to coordinate all the actors involved in employment in a territory they define, usually an employment pool. This will remains: it is not because Pôle Emploi was created that the mayors no longer have to give an opinion on local employment. I remind you that they are the ones who are being questioned by the job seekers, who welcome them in their permanence. In fact, jobseekers rarely seek employment from the prefecture or from the state services. The mayors simply asked that the actors be brought together around a table to build a concrete policy on the ground, articulating GPEC and the specificities of the territory. My electoral district is located in a cross-border territory: Pôle emploi never goes to Belgium, which is what the employment houses of Roubaix, Tourcoing and Val-de-Marcq are doing, who are going to look for jobs to place 20,000 French people on the other side of the border. That, Pôle emploi will never do it. [[Applause on the benches of groups LC, MODEM, LR and NG]] You see, minister, the employment houses are very different in different sectors. That is why, in my view, we must at least maintain the budgets that they currently benefit from.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u416	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u417	As Mr Vercamer has said, the houses of employment are the product of political will, not only from the State but also from local elected representatives, who are invited to commit themselves to integration, training and access to employment. In this regard, they can be compared with the houses of justice and law, for which the local elected officials, at the invitation of the State's public policies, have committed and financed. Your proposal to withdraw from employment centres is all the more surprising given that we are now talking about the creation of a national agency for the cohesion of the territories, which promotes – one might believe that this is its only object – health homes. Here again, we find this confusion of calendar: we break first and then we see.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u418	For once, we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u419	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u420	Madam Minister, what can shake you? I feel you strong, convinced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u421	To be convinced, one must have convictions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u422	I can imagine myself in your place. When an opposition group accuses you of something, I see that you can go over it; When several groups, on benches on both sides of the Chamber, tell you the same thing, I think it should affect you. But when part of your own majority tells you, "Don't do this, minister," and you remain inflexible, one may wonder what Parliament is for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u423	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u424	[[Applause on the benches of groups NG, MODEM, LRet LC]] If, really, you want to rehabilitate parliamentary work, if, really, you think it makes sense to get together in this Chamber and to enter into a dialogue that allows us to go beyond the dividing lines, then listen to what you are told on both sides, including in your own majority – if I understand what the MODEM has just said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u425	I will give the floor again to Mrs Motin and Mrs Fiat, so that we can have a full debate on the houses of employment, which will allow us to go much faster on the amendments. Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u426	I would like to share with you my 20-year experience in human resources and the recruitment of very different audiences, qualified as unskilled, in rural areas, metropolitan areas, priority areas of the city. During these years, I have never had recourse to an employment house, which has not prevented me, for example in eastern Lyon, from animating and participating in employment networks, with all the actors, including the elected ones. Did I need a job house, a structure made up of people paid for it? No. When the will of the elected representatives is there, when the goodwill of the administrations, like Pôle Emploi, is there, we know how to work together. You don't necessarily need a job house for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u427	It's France that's fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u428	In my rural territory there are public service houses, which bring together Pôle Emploi and integration associations, led by elected representatives and representatives of the territories. Do I need a job house? No, again, because there are much more complete devices. The employment house is not an end in itself. Where they walk, they will remain, the elect will keep them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u429	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u430	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] But where they don't work, what is the need to keep them? Where they are absent, what is the need to create them? That is the meaning of our reflection. We are not deaf to your arguments. We are not saying that we must throw everything away but that we must keep what works, that the elected will know how to do it, that we trust them for it and that we can also function differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u431	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u432	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs. Motin, you didn't need the job houses, and that's fine. Some people have a very good life experience without needing these structures. Others might argue that, without employment houses, they could not have helped people around them find a job. For our part, we will vote for the amendment by the Republican Group, which is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u433	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u434	The rapporteur recalled the history of employment houses. To complete his remarks, I would say that the matter is a little more complicated than we seem to say here. I am surprised that many Members, whose political formations have supported governments that have sharply reduced subsidies to employment centres, are holding a contrary speech today. I do not say it in a polemic way, I try to understand the reason for this attitude. In 2010, the State budget for employment houses was EUR 86 million; in the 2017 Finance Act, this figure had fallen to 21 million. One of the reasons for this continued decline is that the landscape of the public employment service has changed and that local elected representatives work directly with all associations and the public employment service. It is no less true that the houses of employment, whose role has moved away from their original raison d'être, have evolved, it has been mentioned, in a different way. Some, for example, work on border employment, an interesting subject, which comes out of the usual cadres.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u435	An important subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u436	Others have specialised in the forecast management of jobs and territorial competences, which, I would remind you, is the subject of funds dedicated to this policy and European funds. It is also a question of shifting appropriations. This budget is designed to provide direct assistance to jobseekers, less to support useful schemes, but with other appropriations. We do not intend to abolish the grant, but to reduce it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u437	It's cut in half!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u438	This will allow us to look on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u439	That's no way to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u440	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Perhaps some employment houses do not know that they can have access to European funds in these areas? We will identify the most effective, which we will be able to subsidize.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u441	It's tight!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u442	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 542.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u443	Second chance for employment houses! Why so much hatred for our rural territories, our territories in difficulty? After the drastic fall in assisted jobs, you are now attacking the employment houses, reserving them a slow liquidation. You intend to deprive us of a tool for development and integration through employment in our territories. In 2005, the related budget was EUR 100 million, for 205 labeled houses; In 2010, it had increased to 82 million, before falling to 21 million in 2017, for 116 labeled houses. Initially, let us admit, there has been some drift in the missions of these structures and some duplications have been identified. But today, Madam Minister, the effort has been made. Their funding is widely shared and relies on both European and local government funding. Their missions have been refocused. In my constituency, I see support for project engineering, which is important in rural areas. The employment houses have, for example, accompanied us for devices such as a TEPCV – a territory with positive energy for green growth – or a factory with initiatives. Employment centres are also active in the area of territorialized forecast management of jobs and skills. It is they who create the link by involving local authorities and by uniting the action of public and private partners. They develop the very good system of the social inclusion clause, analyse the needs of companies in terms of skills – everything you really want – and coordinate the development of training plans. They make it possible to anchor the public employment service in our territories taking into account their specificities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u444	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u445	Minister, we need this tool in our territories. Allow me to invite you to my constituency to see the usefulness of these houses. This will be worth all the reports of the IGAS – Inspectorate General of Social Affairs – and everything you can hear about bad local experiences. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] The aim of this amendment is therefore to restore the budget to EUR 21 million, which is a floor budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u446	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u447	My amendment was not adopted, which is understandable, because it was fighting on the front line. There are still many opportunities to win the battle on this very important subject. For the moment, we are witnessing a festival of absurd arguments on the part of the majority. Mrs Motin, in recent years I have never needed firefighters: that is not why I am going to call for the abolition of the appropriations financing our barracks in all departments. Many people use the services of employment houses; They must be able to live. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the NG and GDR groups]] Madam Minister, you are proposing to cut aid by half and then to see how it works. Let's cut the patient's leg, see if he's walking again, and we'll decide if it's worth it whether he's alive or not! Is that how you work? Keep these aids, and we'll see next year, we'll talk about it again. At least give them a chance to prove themselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u448	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 600 and 803. I call Mr Fuchs to support Amendment No. 600.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u449	This amendment follows the same logic. I will share some thoughts. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LR group]] Indeed, the appropriations increased from €82 million in 2007 to €21 million in 2017, but when the appropriations are cut by half, we cannot cope. A head of a company or a president of an association to whom half of his income would be cut in two months would be unable to reconfigure his activity. We can certainly imagine a staggering, and other amendments will try to understand the issue differently, but deciding to remove 50% of the income by November 8 is invivable. We know in advance that almost no employment home will be able to survive this 2018 finance bill. We have to make it clear that we are deciding to abolish the majority of employment houses, which I do not go back to the services they provide and which, above all, Pôle emploi does not know how to do or do not do today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u450	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 803.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u451	Same subject, same arguments, even counter-arguments, of course. We maintain this amendment, even though we are all aware of the overlapping of competences that may exist between employment centres and employment centres. The 126 employment centres form an important network in the fight against unemployment. They are aware of business needs and professional mobility. They give jobs to people who, without them, would not find jobs. We know that many people have gone through these houses. In Corsica, 7400 people were accommodated in all four structures, and 40% benefited from their service. The purpose of this amendment is to abound the resources of Action 01 of Programme 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u452	I call Mr Jean-Louis Masson to support Amendment No. 693. On this amendment, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u453	[[Applause on several benches]] Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on your first sitting presidency. Minister, removing half of the funding from employment houses amounts to signing their death sentence. I am not the only one who thinks that this is a mistake, you have heard what has been said in this House. We must also listen to what is being said outside the Chamber. Many qualified people alert you, whether they are national and local elected officials of all political affiliations – François Rebsamen, former Minister of Labour, Georges Képénékian, Mayor La République en marche de Lyon, Johanna Rolland, President of Nantes Métropole, Alain Juppé, Martine Aubry – or local actors from civil society, such as Marie-Pierre Estrée d'Argencé, General Delegate of the Alliance villes emploi network. Why are we so many of us telling you this? Are you asking yourself the question? Employment houses are not, as you think, comparable to other public employment actors. Employment centre, local missions and Cap emploi have their specificity and usefulness, but employment centres are tools of territorial engineering. Their core business is the forward-looking management of jobs and skills, i.e. the adaptation of the skills of jobseekers to the jobs that companies have to fill. Their tools are territorial diagnostics and public support, working on skills and training; Their scope ranges from support for young entrepreneurs to inclusion clauses in public procurement. Their strength lies in their knowledge of the territory in which they operate and in their ability to lead a collaborative platform that brings together all public, economic and associative actors. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] With the programming of a large investment plan for employment and training, desired by the President of the Republic, more than ever, we need the MDE, which could be your armed arm, immediately efficient. Without them, we will not have a real steering tool, unless we recreate precisely what exists – I refer here to the notion of temporality dear to Mr Pradieu.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u454	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u455	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u456	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u457	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u458	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u459	Before we vote, I wanted to highlight a point that we did not raise tonight, minister. Let us put ourselves on the other side of the line: for twenty-two years, I was mayor of a commune in which the state asked to create an employment house, whose credits it then reduced, to close it in pain. Continuity of public action, beyond changes in government, is a responsibility. That is why it seems quite surprising to me as an approach to maintaining credits, although at a lower level, which will mainly serve the urban environment, even if it closes many houses of employment – the bad but not the right ones, you say – to adapt to the amount of appropriations allocated. But, ma'am, the needs exist in all the territories; There are no good or bad employment houses, there are territories that need good employment houses. A public policy is a policy of territorial equity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u460	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u461	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the GDR group]] There, you institutionalize territorial inequity and the lack of republican equality. I don't understand your intellectual functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u462	I put to the vote Amendment No. 693.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u463	I call Mr Vercamer to support Amendment No. 651.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u464	Madam Minister, we started at EUR 100 million and we reached EUR 21 million. Every year, I submit an amendment to recover the appropriations that the Government has abolished, and every year the Government makes an effort and cancels half of the cut that it has planned; I hope you will also do so. I have, moreover, tabled an amendment, which we will be discussing earlier, which proposes to reinject EUR 5 million out of the EUR 10 million you have withdrawn. This step you would do is really necessary, because the removal of credits from employment houses is a mistake. These structures have shown their effectiveness, but every year the minister indicates that he is reducing their appropriations to verify this effectiveness. The same speech we hear every year – and it is also the one you gave earlier – is proof that, unfortunately, the officials in the department are the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u465	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 665.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u466	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u467	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No. 836.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u468	Our amendment and those of our colleagues are in the same direction. The appropriations provided for in this finance bill for 2018 confirm the willingness of the State to disengage from these structures. As everyone has said, employment centres play a major role in employment policies, along with other tools and actors such as local plans for integration and employment – PLIEs –, local missions and integration structures. No more than my colleagues, I can't understand that you delete everything that works by saying that it doesn't work. And yet everyone says the opposite in this House. Experiences are different, but job houses, such as assisted contracts, play an extremely important role, as they allow people in difficulty to find out who to talk to, be listened to and be oriented to. Our amendment aims to abound the appropriations allocated to them by EUR 10.5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u469	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u470	I did not say that the employment houses that were on the market were located in the big cities and that those that were not on the market were in rural areas. I said that job houses were working in big cities. But I am myself elected to a rural riding where there is a well-functioning employment house.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u471	Keep it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u472	Based on the criteria to be defined, 50% of the houses will be closed and 50% of the houses will continue to operate. So look at the half-full glass instead of the half-empty glass! Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u473	What is this logic?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u474	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u475	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u476	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u477	This extremely complex debate on budgetary aspects conceals only one problem: are we in favour of maintaining employment houses or not? The rest is artifice. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several benches in the LR, NG, GDR and FI groups]] Our group is in favour of maintaining employment houses and does not believe that the monopoly given to Pôle emploi can replace the work they do. We will therefore vote in favour of this amendment, as we have voted for others.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u478	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u479	Madam Special Rapporteur, your argument is still rather strange. Indeed, the concept of employment houses is working well, especially in rural areas,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u480	I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u481	...so we cut half the credits. You keep the ones that work and you remove the ones that don't work: how will you estimate that one house works and another does not? Are you going to guess? I can't wait to see what it'll give! In any case, this is a bad decision, as you have implicitly acknowledged. Mr Bourlanges has placed the debate very well: if you are in favour of the action of the houses of employment, follow up on our demands, and everyone will be left behind for a good reflection that will allow us to move forward calmly. This is the most important thing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u482	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u483	Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have already been elected, while I am one of those who exercise their first mandate, and I have an extremely pragmatic look. For having already discussed with the Minister, I know how much we can trust the Government for this pragmatic side. I hear, and I want to keep with you in mind that you have to look at the half-full glass and not the half-empty glass.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u484	It's incantation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u485	As the minister told us earlier, the situations are not all the same. Differentiated thinking in the territories must be pursued together. Mr Vercamer spoke about Belgium. For my part, I am elected in a constituency of Lower Rhine, and my colleagues in Lower Rhine support the employment houses. I would like to say here how well Strasbourg's employment house works, because it is oriented towards the Rhine basin and Germany. Every year, permanent jobs are found, in conjunction with Pôle Emploi and the German Arbeitsagentur. I trust the Government, knowing that logic prevails for 2018, but in 2019, we will have an attentive and totally differentiated look.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u486	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u487	In this debate, decisive information has just been given to us: the House of Employment in the constituency of the Special Rapporteur is working; It will therefore continue to be taken into account financially by the State budget. I translate this directly into a lack of political courage...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u488	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u489	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] ...and I fear the worst for your choices to come: partisan choices, yes partisans! When it comes to visiting the working employment houses, we will see the ministers, but when it comes to receiving the officials who will be fired – because I have heard on the benches of the majority group that there would be fewer officials – because of the closure of those who work less well, the mayors will be sent. It's a scandalous intention!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u490	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u491	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 648.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u492	He is very close to Amendment No 665 tabled by Stéphane Viry, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs. It aims to amplify the momentum initiated by the Government by proposing the creation of 5000 additional posts in the integration sector through economic activity, for an amount of 30 million euros. While many of these IAE structures want to develop, they do not now have the necessary resources. Thus, in 2016, 18% of the integration firms would not have received funding for all the job placements carried out and, in 2017, all of them had requested 8% more jobs than they had done in 2016. However, my amendment differs from Mr Viry's amendment by the pledge proposed. In fact, the increase in the funding of the integration jobs proposed here saves on the solidarity expenditure of the departmental councils, the Employment Department and the State. The impact on public finances would therefore be negligible, since it is a matter of activating passive expenditure rather than financing subsistence allowances that do not allow a real return to employment. The aim of the amendment is to transfer 20 million of Action 01 from Programme 102 "Improving the efficiency of the public employment service" to Action 02 "Improving the mechanisms for the employment of people furthest from the labour market". This would compensate for two thirds of the funding provided to the IAE structures by unemployment benefits which would no longer be paid, while the third third, amounting to 10 million, would come from Action 16 "Staff implementing policies to improve the quality of employment and labour relations" of Programme 155 "Design, management and evaluation of employment and labour policies". [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LR group]] I hope that this request, which is quite minimal but which would really benefit the sector concerned, will receive your full attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u493	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u494	It is, for the same reason as before, unfavorable. As IAE's business budgets are already on the rise, it is not possible to go beyond them. As I said earlier, integration takes place through channels other than these: the training plan will contribute to it, just as much as the action of Pôle emploi and the jobs helped. Inclusion is a priority of this budget, and there is no need to change the balances that we originally set.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u495	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u496	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u497	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u498	The Special Rapporteur has just said that it was not possible to go beyond the increase in appropriations allocated to IAE companies: could he explain to us what this means? However, I understand in this budget discussion that you could do a lot: you were able to do a lot in the first part of this finance bill, watering heavily. With regard to integration through economic activity, a gesture could have been made. Again, I note that this is not an application that comes exclusively from opposition groups, but also from members of your majority. Again, you reject this request with a form of contempt and a total lack of consideration. Of course, it is late, but behind all this, there are still, without any demagogy, people who will not be able to return to the path of employment because such a chance will not have been offered to them. I'd like to understand why. Last point, which is irrelevant but which joins the previous debate: the Members of the moving Republic Group all said that the job house they knew in their constituency was working: I would therefore like to understand which ones are not working and how you are going to sort them out.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u499	Are you going to spell?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u500	Jupiter is omniscient!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u501	I am afraid that a uniform reduction in the appropriations allocated to them will also affect those which are working. How, then, is this decline going to take place?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u502	The answer would be interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u503	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 435 and 525. Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 435.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u504	We, the Minister, praised the Government's commitment to persons with disabilities, which resulted in an increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities, the AAH. But your policy suffers from an apparent contradiction. Whenever a disabled worker finds a job in a suitable company, this represents an average savings of 10000 euros for the community. However, in your budget, not only the 1000 job creations in adapted companies, which were provided for in the contract signed in March 2017, are not funded, but the specific grants for post support for adapted companies are falling by more than €7 million. Let us not forget that, behind these figures, there are people with disabilities. You have a policy that is favourable to these same people, we must go to the end and allow them to integrate professionally, especially in the appropriate companies. However, a quarter of these companies, which host more than 80% of adults with disabilities, will, as a result of this scheme and the 22% drop in credits, be in negative next year, i.e. as early as 2018. They therefore risk closing down, which means that people with disabilities who are now in employment are at risk of becoming unemployed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u505	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 525.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u506	We hear the words – the Government announces a budgetary effort in favour of solidarity schemes, the President of the Republic makes disability a priority – and we see the actions, with this first budget, which provides for a reduction in public funding for adapted companies. However, these companies were established in 2005 and have proved their worth: they employ 32,000 people, 26,000 of whom are disabled. This funding is essential because it allows them to balance their accounts. If you do not fill this shortfall of €8 million, the rate of aid per beneficiary will fall, and you will put these adapted businesses at risk. Taking people with disabilities into account, respecting and supporting them is not to reduce the financing of these same companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and NG groups]] By voting on this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, you will restore consistency between the budget and your words. Dear walkers, do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u507	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u508	The subject of adapted enterprises is approached in a funny way, starting with the specific subsidy, when it would have been more logical to first mention the aid to the post. However, let us address this specific subsidy issue. As is well known, it complements postal aid for suitable enterprises, in particular by allowing additional support for enterprises providing for the retention of workers with an ageing disability or setting up special arrangements to promote the integration of disabled workers into the ordinary labour market. This grant represented an envelope of 40 million euros in the initial finance law of 2017: it increases, in the draft finance law for 2018, to 33.4 million euros. This decrease is due to the fact that this aid, which no one disputes is certainly very useful, is extremely complex to implement, which means that its effectiveness is not fully demonstrated. It thus includes a flat-rate share, a share dependent on criteria laid down by decree and a variable share, each based on other criteria combining age, the number of disabled workers monitored and the projects set up by the structure. It also depends on the unilateral decision-making power of the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u509	Is this an improvisation contest?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u510	This operation is anything but legible: it is not so for suitable companies, nor for those responsible for monitoring and evaluating public expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u511	Don't talk for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u512	Is this a joke?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u513	That is why the Government has decided that this subsidy will not be revalued. However, we hope that, in the context of the overall reflection on the financing of the career path of disabled workers and the support for the post which is being undertaken by the Government, in accordance with its commitment, the question of this specific grant will be put on the table with a view to its recasting and simplification. In the meantime, the committee's opinion on these two identical amendments Nos 435 and 525 is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u514	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u515	It is not always easy to read the budget, even though it is important that we have the same reading. A number of lines are concerned, in fact, with adapted enterprises. Mr President, even if the explanations I am about to give anticipate some of those I will give later on on other amendments, it seems to me useful for us to have a comprehensive reading of the operative part. Otherwise, it would be almost incomprehensible. Moreover, the appropriate companies blame, and rightly so, that the appropriations intended for them are spread over several budget lines of discussion and subsidy, which are all justifications to be produced to the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u516	It's not just us who don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u517	I don't think that's the best way to help them. First, we agree that suitable enterprises are very useful and very necessary in the landscape: the priority for disabled workers is important to the Government. This is true in suitable enterprises, but not only, since we must also work with the social partners to exceed the glass ceiling which has been established over time, which means that only 3.2 % of disabled people are employed in all enterprises in France, instead of the 6 % targeted. In the case of adapted enterprises, if the three lines are combined, the sector will receive an additional EUR 4 million and an additional 1000 aid for the post. This aid was provided for in the original 2017 Finance Act but had not been budgeted. We'll do it for next year. Adapted businesses will also benefit, like other associations or like other companies, from the corporate tax credit and, in 2019, from the decrease in expenses. My teams met yesterday with the National Union of Adapted Enterprises, UNEA, with the firm of my colleague Sophie Cluzel. They also met with the Association des Paralysés de France, APF and DSI, Distribution services industrielle. We now have the same reading: first of all, in terms of full-time equivalents, we are going well next year to 24036 positions, which corresponds to an increase of 1000 posts compared to 2017, 2016 having previously seen an increase of 500 posts. We also agreed to enter into a dialogue in order to reflect on a transformation of the funding model made necessary, not for a question of amounts, but because of the unprecedented complexity of the current system, even though we are pursuing the same objective. This one's double. First, to give them multiannual financial visibility. This corresponds to an approach that we must take towards the voluntary sector, which has never been done so far. It is indeed necessary to work on a long-term basis: integration and training of people with disabilities takes time and must take place in the long term. Secondly, the postal aid scheme needs to be improved and its effectiveness enhanced, in particular in the fight against unemployment of disabled people, in order to enable some of them to go to other companies and to welcome new ones. It depends on the situations encountered: this issue will have to be worked on with the sector. We therefore need stability, a commitment to results, an improvement in the budget and substantive work with the appropriate companies: these are our avenues of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u518	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u519	Minister, I listen carefully to you, but your answer did not seem clear to me at all. I need to understand. There is a shortage of EUR 8 million: either we re-credit them or we don't re-credit them, but if we don't, it de facto decreases the aid rate per beneficiary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u520	You didn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u521	You mentioned other benefits, such as tax credits. However, those who are familiar with adapted businesses know that they pay very little tax, especially because they are mostly in the bone. Without this amount of aid, these structures will employ fewer workers, simply because they will not be able to balance their accounts. We can see this in our territories, where we encounter such problems on a daily basis. These companies really need this support. You also mentioned the case of workers with disabilities who could find employment in the ordinary sector. However, for some of the people looking for a job, the ordinary environment is not suitable. For this reason, suitable enterprises, which bear their name, are indispensable: without them, in fact, these people would not be able to get a job.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u522	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 540.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u523	First of all, I wanted to point out that when parliamentarians decided in 2005 to create suitable businesses, they gave birth to a magnificent tool of inclusion through work, which has proved its worth today. Its job creation component, as well as its adaptability, allowed it to take place in a rapidly changing market. Madam Minister, the figures you have given us challenge us. For our part, we maintain that 8 million euros are missing, and I will try to demonstrate that. In March 2017, the previous government planned to create 5,000 new jobs with job support in these companies. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs for Apprenticeship at the time, I proposed 10,000. Together with a colleague from the majority group at the time, we fought in this direction; Unfortunately, the Government had not followed us, which I regretted very much. Of course, 1000 new items are well entered in the draft finance law for 2018, at an annual cost of 14415 euros, i.e. an hourly SMIC of 9.88 euros – the amount of aid per beneficiary is set at 80 % of the SMIC. This should amount to a total budget of EUR 346.47 million if the aid rate per beneficiary is not to decrease. However, these new posts are not financed by an equivalent increase in the appropriations allocated to aid for the post. Indeed, the draft finance law for 2018 anticipates the implementation of new financing arrangements from 1 July 2018 and expects a saving of 8 million euros, by recording expenditure authorisations only to the tune of 338.47 million euros. The EUR 8 million is therefore missing, and this is what this amendment proposes to remedy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u524	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u525	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u526	The Minister described the purpose of this measure very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u527	She described it, but not very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u528	Yes, she explained it very well, and it would not be useful for me to say it again. This is one example, among many, of how this budget was designed. The goal is not to save money and pass the plan in an indistinct manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u529	Faith is beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u530	It's not just faith, dear colleague; That's also reason. The objective of this budget is efficiency: wherever possible, it is to take people, whatever they may be, to sustainable and sustainable jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u531	By reducing the means for adapted businesses?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u532	We take them at stages of their existence, as is the case with disability, where they are very far from it. In order to bring them closer, we need specific mechanisms, whether they are assisted jobs, adapted businesses or integration through economic activity. We believe in these devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u533	And you're removing them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u534	That's not why it's gonna work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u535	We devote resources and intelligence to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u536	What about credits?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u537	But then the point is that they get out of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u538	With you, they don't even go home!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u539	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR, LC and NG groups]] All the work that is being done, in these structures, within the framework of these devices, is to arm them so that they can then gain access to ordinary jobs – and I use the term in a positive sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u540	Damn!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u541	You're next to the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u542	It's not always possible, it's even very often impossible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u543	It is precisely because it is not always possible that we do not cut all budgets at once, that we keep part of them and plan degressions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u544	Thank you, Mr. Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u545	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] That's what's called a policy struck at the corner of discernment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u546	Of course: the paralytics will walk and the blind will see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u547	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u548	I will give an explanation of the budget, to make sure that we do the same reading. As I said, there are several lines. In total, an additional EUR 4 million will be paid to the adapted companies. As regards postal aid in these enterprises, the amount of aid increased from EUR 326 million to EUR 338 million, or an additional 12 million. With regard to the so-called "specific" subsidy in adapted enterprises, which requires justification of ten criteria, there is indeed a reduction of €8 million. So: twelve minus eight equals four!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u549	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u550	The challenge today is to simplify all this; This is also the observation made by the appropriate companies. We need to develop a system that gives them visibility, not three budget lines with fifty proofs. As these are different budget lines, this leads to different amendments. I have to give a global answer, otherwise we wouldn't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u551	Cap!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u552	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u553	Madam Minister, I hear your explanations, but I will continue my amendment, because all of this would require additional work to understand and control things. You recognize yourself that it's complicated. I would like to return to the inclusion mentioned by the Special Rapporteur, although I would have the opportunity to speak at length on the subject on Monday evening in the context of the review of the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities". We are all in favour of inclusion, Mr. Special Rapporteur. I know that this is one of the axes of the President of the Republic's programme on disability. I read it and read it again, and I have to say that for a very large part, I adhere to it. However, I also know that the majority of people who are in enterprises in adapted mode, as well as in establishments and services of help through work – ESAT – will probably never be able to return to ordinary work, first of all because they have been declared unfit to work in an ordinary environment. This is precisely why they are located in suitable companies, in ESAT or in specialized establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u554	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u555	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LC groups]] Of course, we must go towards inclusion for as many of them as possible, but some will lose a lot because of the decisions you make. I assure you that adapted companies are very useful. That's my conviction anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u556	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u557	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have a meeting tomorrow morning at 9:30 a.m. So we cannot continue our debates too early in the night. Twenty-two amendments remain; We've already looked at double that. Let everyone take responsibility: we will only do this if we speed up the pace. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 728.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u558	This amendment covers the EUR 8 million that has just been mentioned; he wants to go back to the reduction in the provision of employment assistance for persons with disabilities – because there is a good reduction. Whereas the number of aid to the post was to increase by 1000, in accordance with previous commitments, the amount of unit support will be reduced mechanically as from mid-2018. You do not detail the precise modalities of the mechanism, but it will result in less funding, thus reducing the chances of occupational integration for people with disabilities. This is a particularly unfortunate gesture on the part of the Government, all for a petty economy of 8 million euros, out of a budget of 15 billion euros. Do you know that a disabled worker returning to work in an adapted company represents an average savings of 10000 euros for the community? People with disabilities are discriminated against in the labour market, which is a fact: while they represent 12% of the labour force, they are twice as hit by unemployment as valid people. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Our amendment therefore aims to restore this EUR 8 million in order to continue to provide decent support for people with disabilities in their integration into the labour market. They don't ask that we feel sorry for their fate; They simply want them to be considered equal individuals, in the world of work as elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u559	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u560	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u561	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u562	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u563	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u564	Mr President, I would like to make a comment, not on the substance, but on the method. Minister, we have been here for twenty-one hours and thirty; It's about an hour and ten in the morning, and many colleagues are leaving us. You have not accepted any amendments this evening from any of the groups. Almost all the devices were adopted by a single group!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u565	It's not a scoop!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u566	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] This is my second term as a parliamentarian. During the previous legislature, I was in opposition; sometimes frontal opposition, but it was possible to discuss and amend the texts, to have openings. I have the feeling that Parliament has never been made as useless and decorative as it was tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u567	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u568	This evening something surprising happened: the three left-wing groups, the two centrist groups, the independents, the Republicans group, we all supported, sometimes together, devices that seemed to us to be in the public interest, in the interest of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u569	Yes! But they didn't want to hear anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u570	You have been closed to everything, without any sign of openness, as if knowledge and knowledge were the prerogative of a single group and the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u571	And how many of you were voting?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u572	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LC and NG groups, as well as on a few benches of the MODEM group]] I find this very sad for Parliament and for the government practice that you embody tonight, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u573	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 436.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u574	Madam Minister, there is still a shortage of EUR 8 million, because your scheme will mechanically cause a reduction in the unit amount of aid to the post. Yes, if you increase the number of posts by 1000 and the budget is lower, there must be a drop! The consequence will be that many adapted companies will find themselves in the red; They will then be obliged to dismiss. They will not be able to create the posts provided for in the budget: they will terminate. That's the consequence of your budget on adapted businesses: it's dramatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u575	Yes, it's outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u576	However, suitable companies are an example of inclusion for all other companies. We must not believe that because we are going to weaken them, others will more easily welcome people with disabilities. It's the opposite that might happen. It is by strengthening the appropriate companies that you will provide examples and models for other companies, in terms of how to accommodate people with disabilities. I have the impression that, on this subject, the impact assessment has not been complete. This is in any case my feeling of "old MP". It would be necessary to deepen the question and to better study the impact on the ground of your measures. I would like, Madam Minister, to make a commitment before us to do so prior to the presentation of the text in the Senate and, if I say so, to revise your position.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u577	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 779 and 808. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 779.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u578	Colleagues have already argued extensively on this issue. In 2017, €332.1 million financed 23036 postal aid. To finance 24306 full-time equivalents in 2018, €346.47 million should be mobilised: €8 million is missing. What is amazing is that these are subjects that should bring us together. You claim that UNEA would show understanding. However, I spoke to his representatives just before entering the Chamber: they do not understand at all what you are doing. Adapted companies will be placed in a situation of extreme insecurity. What are we talking about? A day's return from wealth tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u579	The ISF is sacred!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u580	Show some flexibility and humanity to help these companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u581	"Humanity"? This is not part of their vocabulary!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u582	On the identical amendments Nos 779 and 808, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 808.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u583	The question is of importance: what is at stake are 23,000 jobs, 34,000 employees with disabilities in employment contracts and more than 40,000 people working in the 800 adapted enterprises. In presenting this amendment, I will rely on the KPMG report on the economic relevance of enterprises adapted to the aid they receive from the State and the communities. This report was drawn up on the basis of their financial statements; It's one approach among others. For a job created in a suitable enterprise, it is on average more than 11,000 euros that are saved by the community: 1,400 euros are saved in income and 9900 euros correspond to the average cost of a beneficiary. In addition, and more importantly, social added value, in terms of socialisation, training and personal valorisation. The amendment aims to abound sub-action 02.02 of programme 102 by EUR 8 million, which would enable the State's commitment to the annual creation of 1000 postal aid for five years to be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u584	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u585	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u586	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u587	I want to bounce back on Mrs de La Raudière's proposal. There are two topics: the budget amount and the economic model. With regard to the budget amount, EUR 12 million is actually added for aid to the post; Less than 8 million, that's 4 million, everyone understands it. But you are right, honourable Member, that does not fully ensure the sustainability of the economic model. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] We committed each other to work on it, and quickly. In the coming days, we will therefore meet with the main associations of the sector. If a better and more lasting solution can be found within the next fifteen days, I will be delighted to table an amendment on behalf of the Government during the Senate examination. I therefore take note of your proposal and will consider what can be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u588	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u589	I, in turn, want to stress the importance of suitable enterprises, including for ordinary employees who, after an accident at work, are obliged to work there. We all know how useful these companies are. I would like to understand why it is so difficult for you, minister, to accept the request that these workers make to you. If they were not in employment, what would they do, if not receive the allowance for adults with disabilities? However, the cost of aid to the post is roughly equivalent to that of this allowance. What exactly are we looking for? You've been talking about dignity for a while. Are we seeking to restore their dignity to people who have lost it because they consider themselves excluded from social life? Do we mean, on the contrary, to help them regain this dignity through employment? Given the equivalency of the budget amounts, I do not understand what justifies your resistance to what is required of you by everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u590	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 779 and 808.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u591	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 541.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u592	Forgive me for adding a diaper, if you pass the phrase to me at 1:20 in the morning. I fully agree with President Olivier Faure's remarks. I also do not understand the Government's attitude with regard to the addition of EUR 8 million to the budget line we are talking about. We understand your technical explanation: 12 million minus 8 million, it gives, at the end of the day, 4 million euros. Even if we are not in the realm of symbolism, and also given what Mr Lurton has said on this subject which transcends our currents and our personal convictions, we cannot let the companies concerned down. Many of us, on these benches, regularly visit ESATs and find out how things are going there, how trained staff look after those who are welcomed, often elderly. Every year, I go to the work medal awards in these companies. I imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that a number of you are also doing so. We can see then how much all personnel are committed "to the fullest", if you pass this other expression on to me, in their mission. It would be really smart, forgive me to say, Madam Minister, or in any case relevant, to abound the appropriations to the tune of 8 million euros, so as not to make it a subject of dispute on many benches or to give the impression that we will "saquer" the ESATs in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Thank you, Madam Minister, for being generous and for taking into account these objective arguments from both the left and the right, which are also, I imagine, in the heart of a number of you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u593	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u594	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u595	The minister has opened a door that may be more open in the remainder of the budget debate, particularly in the Senate. It has thus marked a goodwill that we support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u596	Vote on the amendment, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u597	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] No, because the subject isn't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u598	It must be the complex thought!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u599	The fiscal lever is not the only one: we intend to act on the economic model.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u600	We're asking you for 8 million euros, not 800 million!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u601	Mr Cordier, please. Mr Special Rapporteur, thank you for concluding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u602	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] You accuse us of not hearing your requests; Don't make us accuse you of not seeing the door that we open. We open this door, the minister has committed herself to it. So history will have a sequel to the Senate, and then at second reading here. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u603	I call Amendment No 780. On this amendment, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u604	It tends to increase the appropriations for the specific grant by €7 million, currently with a budget of €33.34 million. This would bring it to EUR 40 million, which would enable the State to fulfil the commitments made last March.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u605	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u606	Disadvantaged, for reasons already indicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u607	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u608	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u609	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u610	I take advantage, Mr. Chairman, of the fact that we have a little time before the public election. Throughout the evening, the Government told us that we believe in assisted jobs, believe in economic integration, believe in job houses, believe in suitable businesses. Anyway, you believe in a lot of things, but you don't practice much. But the best believers are also the practitioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u611	I put to the vote Amendment No. 780.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u612	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 601.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u613	The randomness of the debates brings us back to the houses of employment. Each one, I think, had three quarters of an hour to think; So let's come back with new ideas. Almost no employment home will survive a 50% decrease in two months and 100% in fourteen – as the entire budget line will be removed in 2019. The planned time limit, too short, is therefore unmanageable; It is even disrespectful of personnel who have fought for years, and continue to do so day after day, to exercise their mission proudly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u614	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u615	No professional body is able to adjust to such a short period of time: any serious plan for conversion can only be carried out in pluriannuality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u616	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u617	I therefore propose, together with my group's colleagues, to reduce the appropriations by 20% each year on this budget line by EUR 21 million: by 2022, that is, in five years' time, each employment house will have had time to reconfigure itself. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] By losing only 20% of its allocations, we have time to reorganise our activity, to seek alternative or additional financing. This measure should therefore be sufficient to ensure the survival of a large part of the employment houses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u618	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u619	We have heard your arguments, honourable Member, but the debate has already taken place. The opinion remains unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u620	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u621	I call Amendment No 654, which, Mr Vercamer, has already been tabled...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u622	Yes, Mr. President. Since 6.3 million was still too much, I am proposing an increase of EUR 5 million. A little effort, Madam Minister, and you will be able to get out of this debate with your head high.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u623	No one raised his hand, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u624	Yes, Mrs Fiat, the amendment has been rejected. I call Mr Fuchs to support Amendment No. 599. On this amendment, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u625	We are providing a new effort of inventiveness and creativity, by proposing a compromise between a budgetary orthodoxy whose necessity and the imperative of responsibility incumbent on elected officials have been well understood. It commits us to allow the strengthening of the actions of employment centres, at least those which are the most rooted and effective in our territories. Indeed, the analysis reveals that not all employment houses show the same efficiency. Some are more dynamic than others in developing innovative initiatives. We therefore suggest a new distribution of budgetary appropriations through selection based on precise and quantifiable criteria, such as compliance with commitments. Some employment houses, for example, welcome the public, which is not in their original mission. It can also be based on a rating given by the DIRECCTE, the regional business, competition, consumption, labour and employment directorates. One could also favour houses that ensure territorial coherence of employment policies in complementarity with Pôle Emploi and all the actors in the territories, including enterprises, or diversify the methods of financing. By subjecting employment houses to these criteria, we could, on an equal budget – 10.5 million euros, therefore – provide identical funding, but only – it is therefore a choice that we will all have to assume – for those that bring recognised added value to national employment policies in our territories. Homes that do not meet these criteria could not be given the chance to improve.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u626	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u627	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] We are sensitive to the argument of the evaluation criteria. Wisdom, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u628	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u629	[[Same movements]] The amendment corresponds to the performance logic I have mentioned. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u630	I put to the vote Amendment No. 599.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u631	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1033 and 1098, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 1033 is the subject of several sub-amendments, Nos 1130, 1126, 1129, 1128 and 1127. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1033.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u632	This amendment on free jobs has already been tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u633	Subamendments Nos. 1130, 1126, 1129, 1128 and 1127 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u634	I am not sure whether it is necessary to legislate in order to implement free jobs: in 2013, a simple decree had sufficed. Above all, I confirm what I said: free jobs were decided in haste, with an amendment tabled last night. In order to correct a dangerous interpretation, I propose, on the one hand, to clarify that they can only be undertakings "with a French establishment", because I fear that the concept of "enterprises located in the national territory" is not defined in law. Subamendment No 1127 is intended to correct a shell since, obviously, the expression "territories" seems redundant in the drafting of the original provisions. Sub-amendment No 1128 specifies that the priority neighbourhoods of the chosen city policy will be determined among those defined in 2014, not on the basis of a new classification. Subamendment No 1129 is aimed at the public chosen in relation to these neighbourhoods in order to avoid a boon effect. I recommend that the free employment scheme be reserved for job seekers "with particular difficulties of training or integration into employment", and not for those who can find a job more easily.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u635	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 1098.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u636	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u637	What is the Committee's opinion on these sub-amendments and amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u638	The committee gave an opinion against sub-amendments Nos 1127 and 1129. With regard to sub-amendment No 1129, in particular, if the target audience is indeed that of the priority neighbourhoods of city policy, too precise criteria would fall back into the same mistakes as those which led the system to fail to function. The committee is therefore in favour of the Government's amendment No. 1033, which is sub-amended by sub-amendments Nos. 1130, 1126 and 1128. It is also against Mr Pupponi's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u639	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u640	First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the Republic on the move for withdrawing the amendment it has tabled, in favour of the Government's amendment. This allows us all to make progress on free jobs. Like the committee, the Government has issued an opinion in favour of all amendments with the exception of sub-amendments Nos. 1127 and 1129. The opinion is against Subamendment No 1127, because it was not a shell. The decree will define territories that may include several priority areas of city policy. The aim is to form a somewhat wider territory, with several districts within the same department.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u641	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 623.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u642	This amendment tends to require the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the effectiveness of assisted employment contracts. In committee, this subject was the subject of a lengthy debate, during which several arguments were put forward. The Government justifies the huge decline in the number of contracts assisted by indicating that they do not facilitate integration into the labour market. We do not share this view, especially since the same government and the majority decide to maintain the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – which is a tax gift without any real attribution criteria or matching in terms of job creation commitments, at a dizzying cost. On the contrary, like many of our colleagues who spoke this evening, we believe that assisted jobs contribute to the vitality of economic activity and create sustainable jobs. In 2015, according to a study published by DARES, the 60,000 additional aided contracts voted by Parliament resulted in a net creation of around 21,000 jobs. They play a definite counter-cyclical role: in times of economic downturn, they have a positive effect on activity because they enable them to rapidly improve the living conditions of their beneficiaries, by increasing their purchasing power. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Since the studies we have cited are a little dated, it would be wise, in order not to make decisions disconnected from the real, to have figures on which to base ourselves. It is in this sense that we propose this amendment, in order to have precise elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u643	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u644	Unfavorable opinion. Without going back to the debate on assisted contracts, the systematic request to the Government for information reports will lead me to make a point of methodology. As you said, Mrs Obono, several reports have already been published on the subject, issued by the Court of Auditors in 2011, by parliamentarians or DARES. If you have any new elements that have not been highlighted so far, produce your own report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u645	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u646	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 624.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u647	My colleague has asked for the floor on the previous amendment, and you are ignoring it, Mr President. It is a lack of respect for the work of parliamentarians! Moreover, these votes are shams of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u648	You're asking for reports, Mr. Prud'homme; We're trying to move on.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u649	We have every right to request reports, Mr. President, do not displease you! You're not here to judge our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u650	I'm not judging anything, Mr. Prud'homme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u651	The Government plans to achieve 50 million savings from the public employment service budget. This is probably due to the particularly rewarding situation of the labour market, boosted by the Labour Ordinances. Of course, that's not true. Tomorrow, Pôle Emploi will have to accompany more and more French people, soon including the self-employed and the resignations in the potential beneficiaries of unemployment insurance. The announced decline in social contributions, 10% of which is used to finance Pôle Emploi, will affect the proper conduct of its missions. This probably explains, as the Court of Auditors pointed out in a report, that Pôle emploi is increasingly resorting to subcontracting, without proof of cost effectiveness and return to employment. This desire to weaken the public service in order to better privatize it leads to suffering on both sides of the windows. In these circumstances, this new information report, which you do not mind, aimed at assessing the means available to Pôle employé to carry out its tasks, makes sense. We look forward to learning how we do more with less in the start-up Nation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The unemployed, although they are only multi-recidivist profitors for Mr Macron, have contributed to national solidarity. They have the right to a genuine public service of employment, worthy of the rich country in which we live.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u652	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u653	Unfavorable opinion. If the reports were to reduce unemployment, we would not be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u654	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u655	The 2015-2018 tripartite agreement between the State, UNEDIC and Pôle Emploi provided for a mid-term evaluation. In addition, a joint report of IGAS and the Finance Inspectorate was submitted in February 2017. In addition, an evaluation will be conducted at the end of the tripartite agreement, at the end of the first half of 2018, with a view to renegotiation by 2019. In view of this, I do not consider it necessary to request a supplementary report. We will have to discuss these issues as soon as these evaluation elements are communicated to us, in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u656	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u657	[["Rapporteur! » on the benches of the REM group]] We are gathered here for a budgetary debate in which the organic law allows parliamentarians to request information reports. If you disagree with this method, the rapporteur, you can still table amendments in the forthcoming constitutional debates that we will have to question this rule. In the meantime, we are doing our job, and we are not the last to be present, until the end of the sitting, in the Chamber, including to table amendments, despite the fatigue caused by a high attendance rate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We would like the Government and the majority to respect this work in their method. We have worked on these amendments; We have arguments. If you have nothing to oppose, don't say anything, rather than question what we're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u658	I have before me two amendments, Nos 773 and 774, which can be presented together. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u659	The first amendment also introduces a request for a report, this time on jobs of the future, which are truly effective. If this arrangement had been retained, it might have led to job creation. Thus, an analysis of its functioning might lead to a change of opinion on the part of the Government. The second amendment concerns a report on the 500 000 additional training courses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u660	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u661	Unfavorable opinion. Mr Borello, responsible for a mission on assisted contracts, will necessarily analyse future jobs in this context. Pending its report, it does not appear necessary to add a new evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u662	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u663	Opinions against these two amendments. Amendment No. 773 is not applicable because, pursuant to Article 5 of Act No. 2012-1189 of 26 October 2012 creating jobs for the future, the Government is already transmitting to Parliament an evaluation report, taking stock of the implementation of future jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u664	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u665	Madam Minister, we cannot compare the work you are entrusting to Mr Borello, whom I do not know, with parliamentary work, which is under parliamentary control, one of the three pillars of Parliament's mission. On form, these are two profoundly different things, and they are not comparable. Naturally, this remark does not detract from the legitimacy of a report. In view of the societal challenge, the proposal for parliamentary work on the subject is not unnecessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u666	I call the funds from the trust account "National Financing for Development and Modernization of Apprenticeship", which are entered in state D.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u667	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 618. I believe that this is also a request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u668	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u669	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 619.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u670	Learning is expensive for public finances. While it may be useful to train young adults in certain occupations, we are against the fact that minors are involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u671	Help!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u672	In-company education should not replace formal education before the majority. Each young person must be able to decide whether or not to do so, after completing full school education until the age of 18. In addition, this would result in significant savings to the State. The Government seems particularly sensitive to this argument, so we would like to assess the savings achieved. This could then enable us to convince our current leaders that it would be more effective to reinvest money in school education, in order to empower each of our children to acquire a foundation of common knowledge, before learning a trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u673	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 620.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u674	According to an IGAS report dated February 2016, one out of three apprenticeship contracts would be broken before its completion. Thus, some companies would benefit from the benefits offered by this type of contract in the form of contribution exemptions without guaranteeing apprentices full training in return. It would seem normal for the State to systematically suspend the exemptions and, in such cases, demand the company's reimbursement of the benefits received. As the current government appears to be particularly inclined to save money, the assessment of the revenue to be expected from such a measure would be a good starting point for launching the debate and for the eventual adoption of what seems to us to be a reform of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u675	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 621.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u676	[["Aaah! » on several benches of the REM group]] We are again asking for an information report. You're happy; We need it, too! This time, the aim is to assess the transition from regionalization of learning to national management, which would entail the disappearance of the National Fund for the Development and Modernization of Apprenticeship, which would be allocated to national education. Nationalization of the management of this set of mechanisms leading to the acquisition of know-how, knowledge and knowledge would contribute to the effectiveness of learning. It would help to combat territorial inequalities in order to make access to them fairer. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Until such a transformation has been quantified to Parliament, its efficiency will not be established. We therefore propose that the Government submit to Parliament an information report on the matter within 12 months of the enactment of this Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u677	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 622.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u678	The extension of alternance training to all ages of life would be an interesting avenue. In particular, it would facilitate the retraining of certain adults. This measure could be financed by an extended apprenticeship tax and by the creation of a universal requalification and vocational training fund, which would be entrusted to the public service of vocational education. An information report would explore this promising track and demonstrate its relevance. This is the subject of this amendment – the last one, which you will not fail to adopt!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u679	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u680	Just a few words, since this last amendment concerns learning, a subject that we all care about: know that, in this area, a major reform is planned in the spring...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u681	There's always something planned!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u682	...that the minister will be happy to explain to us. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u683	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u684	At this late hour, I will spare the national representation a long speech on learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u685	[[Smile]] Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u686	[[Same movement]] Art of being popular at little cost! I would simply say that apprenticeship is already available without age limits in several situations: in the event of succession of apprenticeship contracts, when the apprentice is a disabled worker, when the contract is signed by a person with the intention of setting up or resuming a business, or for high-level sportsmen and women undergoing retraining. In addition, the Act of 8 August 2016 on labour, the modernisation of social dialogue and the securing of career paths allows regions that wish to do so to allow unconditional access to apprenticeship up to 30 years. Learning is therefore already open to new audiences. On Friday we begin consultations on this subject with the regions, the social partners, national education and higher education. So this is a question that we will come back to. For today, the Government's opinion is unfavourable, not out of disagreement with the general idea of the amendment, but in order to allow the dialogue to proceed. It will require a set of reports that we will, of course, forward to national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u687	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u688	The report we are requesting will be used for your consultation. So we can only adopt the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u689	We have completed the review of the appropriations for the "Work and Employment" Mission. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-08-O1045.u690	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Further discussion of the second part of the 2018 finance bill: review of the overseas mission's appropriations. The meeting is adjourned.
