ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u1	Pursuant to Article L.O. 185 of the electoral code, the President received from the Constitutional Council a decision setting aside the legislative election of 11 and 18 June 2017 in the eighth constituency of the department of Haute-Garonne, following which Mr Joël Aviragnet had been declared elected, and in the fourth constituency of the department of Loiret, following which Mr Jean-Pierre Door had been proclaimed elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u2	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified examination procedure, of five bills authorizing the approval of international conventions and agreements (No. 160, 440; No 159, 439; No 168, 442; No 167, 441; No 270, 415). Since these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put to the vote the single article of each of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u3	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, of the draft law, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Swiss Federal Council on taxation applicable on the premises of the Basel-Mulhouse airport (No. 373, 443).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u4	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u5	Madam President, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting to you today, on behalf of the Government, the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Swiss Federal Council on taxation applicable on the premises of the Basel-Mulhouse airport. Despite some of the comments that we have heard, I believe that we are living a historic moment, because we are putting an end to fiscal and legal uncertainty that has lasted for almost seventy years. Several elected members of border constituencies are present today. They know that this airport has the specificity of being fully situated on French territory while having a binational status. The 1949 bilateral convention established a Franco-Swiss public institution, which was administered jointly by the two countries. It is divided into two customs sectors, Swiss and French. The 1949 Convention provides for the principle that French legislation and regulations are only applicable within the airport, but it also provides that the conditions for the application of French taxes and taxes, to be borne by the airport, air navigation companies and real estate companies for the airport, will be the subject of an agreement between the two governments – Article 14 of Annex II. This resulted in harmful legal uncertainty since, in the absence of an agreement provided for in Article 14 of Annex II, Switzerland argued that no French taxes or taxes were payable by the airport, airlines and certain undertakings operating at the airport. On the other hand, France considered that French taxation applied. This uncertainty was determined by a decision of 31 July 2009 of the Council of State, seized by a Swiss company: French taxation must apply within the airport. Switzerland then requested the conclusion of the agreement provided for in Article 14 of Annex II to provide the airport with a lasting legal regime to ensure its development. In this regard, this infrastructure has experienced considerable economic growth, generating significant benefits for the trinational agglomeration. For example, in 2016, with 7.3 million passengers, some 60 airlines and freight of more than 100,000 tonnes per year, a turnover of 133.2 million euros and a net profit of 24.8 million euros, Basel-Mulhouse Airport is France's fifth largest airport outside Paris Airport and Switzerland's third largest airport. It serves a population pool of 3.2 million people living less than 60 minutes by car and directly generates more than 6400 jobs and as many indirect jobs. 75% of the people who work there live in France and therefore contribute to the economic development of the local authorities in which they reside. The sustainability of this infrastructure should be ensured in order to preserve these very important local benefits. Legal uncertainty could have prevented certain public investments, such as the airport's direct rail connection project to the Saint-Louis station, and private investments, such as those envisaged but suspended by EasyJet. Moreover, it was important to avoid the development of a de facto free zone, in which companies would not have been subject to any form of taxation, either in France or Switzerland. This was likely to concern the airport itself, which did not pay tax on companies, airlines, which did not pay the civil aviation tax, and certain companies operating at the airport. The objective of the French authorities, when they opened the negotiations, was, on the one hand, to provide the infrastructure with a permanent regime and, on the other hand, to lay down fair conditions for the application of French and Swiss taxation at the airport. The common will to move forward on this issue first took the form of several joint statements in 2015, then in 2016. These statements laid down the principles of the agreement and made it possible to clarify its general balance. They led to the conclusion of an international agreement on March 23, 2017, which is the subject of the bill before you today for your approval. The negotiations resulted in an agreement achieving these objectives to provide the airport with a sustainable and fair regime. It plans to subject the airport to French corporate tax and the sharing of the proceeds of the tax between France and Switzerland, to subject all companies operating in the Swiss customs sector in France to French corporate tax. On the other hand, Swiss VAT will apply in the Swiss customs sector, and France has obtained a derogation from the Council of the European Union, which was granted on 21 February 2017. In addition, the objective of the agreement is to avoid double taxation of companies resident in Switzerland and operating in the Swiss customs sector of the airport with taxes of the same or similar nature existing in France and Switzerland. It is therefore on the principle of non-double taxation that local taxes and ancillary taxes on French wages are exempt for companies as long as they are subject to the Swiss capital tax levied by the canton of Basel-Ville. These are, in principle, branches whose head office is a company based in Switzerland and which, in the Confederation, pays a local tax on all its turnover. The French authorities have also ensured that the agreement provides for a mechanism for the benefit of the French territorial authorities concerned – the region, the département and the communes of Saint-Louis, Blotzheim and Hésingue, which are grouped into agglomeration communities, in order to compensate for the loss of revenue resulting from this exemption. I have read the debates that have taken place in committee. The report is very precise, but, while there is no constitutional system of compensation obligations, it was normal to find a mechanism, even if some consider it imperfect. In view of the momentum to which the airport is promised in the coming years, it ensures a foundation that has the merit of existing. I should like to stress this and to say that I have taken note of the comments you have made. The agreement also enshrines the solution set out in the bilateral declaration of 14 April 2015 on aviation taxation for airlines operating commercial flights from Basel-Mulhouse airport under Swiss traffic rights. Thus, in return for the exemption from the French civil aviation tax, the airlines concerned are subject to a specific contribution which aims to finance the tasks of general interest, carried out by the services of the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation, locally related to this traffic. In this respect, as a follow-up to the above-mentioned joint declaration, the Agreement endorses the legislative developments that have been carried out by the Finance Act for 2016, amending the relevant provisions of the General Tax Code. These are the main observations that this agreement calls for. I am listening to you to continue the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u6	Mr Bruno Fuchs, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u7	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement of 23 March 2017 between the Government of the French Republic and the Swiss Federal Council aims at finally putting an end to a situation of legal and fiscal vacuum, which has persisted for nearly seventy years, which will not fail to surprise you. It was indeed in 1949 that a Franco-Swiss agreement on the taxation of Basel-Mulhouse airport was planned, but it was only in 2017, that is to say, today, that it is born. This agreement has no equivalent, since it applies to a binational institution also very original, the Basel-Mulhouse airport. To understand all the subtleties, all the singularities and all the scope, I have to make a little history here. It was in 1946 that France and Switzerland decided to build an airport located, in French territory, in the Haut-Rhin, in the communes of Blotzheim, Hésingue and Saint-Louis – I greet Jean-Luc Reitzer, Member of Parliament for this constituency. In 1949, France and Switzerland signed a bilateral convention setting out the broad lines of its statute. The general principle laid down in this text is that French law applies at the airport, except for two major derogations provided for in the Convention itself. The first is that each of the two countries has at the airport a customs and police sector where its officials apply its regulations and are solely competent for health, customs and police checks. A part of the airport therefore forms what is called the Swiss sector, connected to the Swiss border by a road so that it can be accessed directly from Switzerland without crossing customs and border police. The second concerns traffic rights, i.e. the national flag under which flights take place. These rights may be granted to airlines by each of the two countries. The airport, for its part, is administered by a binational public institution. This is an entirely original institution, since no other airport falls under a comparable binational regime. This very special regime has not prevented the development of the airport, and the territorial area surrounding it. It serves a very dynamic trinational cross-border agglomeration, that of Basel, and beyond, a densely populated and very prosperous European region – 3.2 million people live less than an hour's drive from the airport, and the average GDP per capita is close to 40000 euros. In addition to this panorama, there are some 60 airlines and more than 100 destinations served. The airport site represents nearly 6400 direct jobs. I now come to the agreement itself. An annex to the 1949 Convention provided for the drafting of an agreement between the two countries to lay down the tax rules applicable to airports and businesses. However, this agreement was never signed, or rather it was signed in 2017 – this is the text we are looking at. For seventy years, fiscal uncertainty has prevailed and local actors have been able to thrive in their own interests. Two theses were competing. According to the first – French – French tax law applied to the airport, as it was situated entirely in French territory. Conversely, it could be argued that Swiss taxation applied on the Swiss side, relying on a tax gap. In practice, the control of companies located in the Swiss customs sector of the airport, administered by the Swiss, was not easy. Some Swiss companies, located on French territory, took advantage of this to avoid paying any tax at all. Uncertainty has led to a fairly general non-taxation of French taxes not only of companies in the Swiss sector, but also of the binational public institution, manager of the airport, which only started to pay the corporation tax in 2015! Another source of astonishment, the aeronautical taxes that appear on our air tickets, are not applied to airlines operating in Basel-Mulhouse under Swiss traffic rights. The result is not surprising: 90% of flights to Basel-Mulhouse are operated under Swiss traffic rights. And of the 6400 jobs on the site, 4900 belong to companies in the Swiss sector. It is this sector that is particularly successful, to the detriment of the French sector. Following a tax check, the Conseil d'État confirmed in 2009 that French tax law applies well in the Swiss sector. In 2013, the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation – DGAC – then tried to impose French aviation taxation on Swiss traffic rights flights, but it had to backtrack against the outcry generated by its initiative. What was a legal gap for businesses turned into a proven tax risk and, in fact, the majority of them then settled with the French tax authorities. Others threatened to leave. Still others, such as EasyJet, which is the main company in Basel-Mulhouse, have suspended their investments pending clarification of the tax rules. The agreement therefore combines French and Swiss taxation, the second being generally lighter. On the current tax bases, it guarantees 15 to 20 million euros of additional resources in all our public funds. Finally, it aims to avoid double taxation. The main lines of the compromise are as follows: the binational public institution managing the airport will now pay the French corporate tax, but the product is shared equally with Switzerland. With regard to aviation taxation, commercial flights under Swiss traffic rights are exempt from civil aviation tax, but are subject to a specific contribution of EUR 1.73 per passenger, which is less burdensome than the ordinary tax. Finally, as far as companies in the Swiss airport sector are concerned, they will be subject to French corporate tax, but to Swiss VAT, which is lower than in France. Finally, concerning local taxes, i.e. the most interesting and sensitive issue of this agreement, companies in the Swiss sector will be subject to the capital tax of the canton of Basel-Ville and will therefore be exempt from territorial economic contribution to the benefit of the French authorities. This exemption results in a significant loss of revenue for the affected communities, because, despite challenges to the applicable law, the collection was quite significant in recent years: €3.15 million in 2015 and €3.34 million in 2016, all levels of communities combined. The agreement provides, from 2018 – it is due to enter into force on 1 January – for the benefit of the communities, an annual levy of EUR 3.2 million on the amount of tax on the airport's companies, as compensation. This compensation is not perfect, however, and concerns the communities concerned. Indeed, if the airport did not pay corporate tax or less than 3.2 million, the compensation payment would therefore be eliminated or reduced. Moreover, this figure is fixed and does not take into account the prospects for the development of airport activity, and a clear loss of profits, if the activity were to develop as expected. The amount of the levy is to be updated, but the details are not specified. We therefore recommend that stakeholders start negotiations as soon as this text is implemented to clarify the modalities for possible future compensation beyond EUR 3.2 million and thus allow the airport to develop in a harmonious relationship with all the territorial actors. This compromise between French and Swiss taxation should preserve the attractiveness of Basel-Mulhouse and even strengthen it thanks to the legal certainty it brings, as well as to the prospect of very important new investments – many companies, like EasyJet, have already announced that they will resume their investments. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has adopted this bill, and I invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u8	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u9	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the quality of their work for the texts we have just adopted in a simplified procedure. Since the beginning of the legislature, our committee has considered sixteen bills authorizing ratification of an international agreement. Each of these projects was the subject of a report and an in-depth debate before its adoption in the committee. The Rules of Procedure of this House provide, and it is a very good thing for me, that the simplified examination procedure, which is the usual procedure adopted by the Conference of Presidents at the request of the Government, can be lifted if the chairman of the committee on the merits, or the chairman of a political group, so requests. That is the case for the three conventions that we are going to examine. This is good because, when there are questions, it helps to inform Parliament by means of a debate in our House. It also allows us to give ourselves time to carry out a work of deepening, when we consider it necessary. I now turn to the Basel-Mulhouse airport tax agreement. Let me thank our rapporteur, Bruno Fuchs, for the very high quality and readability of his report. Let me also welcome the colleagues who are participating in our debate and who will speak in a few minutes. Basel-Mulhouse Airport is a remarkable example of cross-border European cooperation. It is interesting to note that, as early as 1946, at a time when States were not prepared to compromise on the strict control of their borders and even before the start of the European construction, France and Switzerland were able to agree to build this airport. But one can only be astonished to discover that it took until 2017 to clarify the tax rules concerning the airport, while, as early as 1949, the French and Swiss governments had agreed that they should enter into a specific agreement in the tax field. Let us add that the discovery – or rather the rediscovery – of this baroque situation is due to a tax control of an undertaking located in the airport, which led in 2009 to a judgment of the Council of State affirming the application of French law in the absence of an agreement derogating. Without this control, the situation could still have continued for so long as some seemed to be satisfied with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u10	And for good reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u11	One can only wonder about the long inaction that has led to the present situation, inaction which does not concern only tax law, since it was also necessary to wait until 2012 for an agreement to be signed to clarify the applicable labour law rules. Such situations of uncertainty in tax matters are simply not acceptable. Some have taken advantage of it in the past in order to escape tax. They are not tolerable, whether from the point of view of public morals or of economic interest, because a proven tax risk can cause companies to put an end to their investments. It is this well-understood interest that ultimately led to this agreement. From now on, French rules will apply for certain taxes, Swiss rules for others, tax products being shared between the two countries. One last comment on the calendar. This agreement was signed in March this year. It has already been ratified by Switzerland and approved by the Senate. The only thing that is missing is the vote in this House. This text includes fiscal and budgetary provisions which may enter into force only on 1 January. Let us make sure, by our positive vote, that it comes into force on January 1, 2018, to make up for sixty-eight years of inaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u12	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u13	I congratulate you, the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee, on the quality of your statements, which were worthy of frankness. In the event that a few here have lost all the salt in this case, I would like to remind you of the starting point. Since 1947, in the territory of the French Republic, people have been settled, who do not pay any taxes of any kind, and do not respect tax law or social law, and yet everyone stands in his place. I understand perfectly well that locally, our compatriots find their own account – especially because of economic activity. But this must not make us forget that we are the bearers of the general interest and the law, which is also one and indivisible as the Republic itself. We have moved from a situation in which nobody pays anything to an agreement that brings the following improvements. Firstly, it seems excessive for Switzerland to pay VAT at the French rate: in the Swiss sector, the Swiss rate will apply – 8% instead of 20%. It is not surprising that, in the past, 90% of traffic has been carried out under Swiss and non-French traffic rights. Secondly, the companies which provide these 90% of traffic are exempt from the civil aviation tax, whereas the French State carries out all the legitimate missions for this airport. The agreement also provides for exemption from the solidarity tax on airline tickets, known as the Chirac tax – this tax falls within the meaning of anyone who has a minimum of human feeling, but not for them. This tax makes it possible to finance the fight against AIDS at the global level. It is an excellent idea that we owe President Chirac. Finally, companies will not pay the territorial economic contribution either. Our compatriots are asked to believe that, whatever the economic activity in the future, a recipe of 3.2 million will be paid: I do not believe a word! I took the opportunity of this strange convention – you recalled that it owes its signature to a fiscal control without which everyone would have stayed in their place very quietly without being bothered by anyone – in order to be able to say from the top of the gallery of the French National Assembly that several colleagues – at least those of La France insoumé, and no doubt many others on all benches, including those who will remain silent – consider this situation perfectly abnormal and consider that the fiscal relationship with Switzerland must change. May the Swiss leaders hear the voice of the French as long as it is carried with happiness, tranquillity and patience – it has lasted for sixty years, I doubt that we allow things to last on other subjects. Switzerland is regarded by honest people and specialized non-governmental organizations as a tax haven of which we are among the first victims. Oxfam ranks fourth in the world's worst tax havens. We, French, have our say on the subject! Switzerland certainly offers a special quality of air, since half of the French billionaires are installed there, which allows them to escape from the French tax. It is estimated that 25% of world wealth is domiciled in Switzerland for the sole reason that it allows their owners to avoid taxation in their own country. This is unacceptable. Switzerland can therefore be regarded as an international money-laundering centre. Again, I'm not the one who's going to talk, but the international reports. There are 245 customs warehouses and 20 free ports in Switzerland, which are areas of total lawlessness. No one knows what they contain and no one tells us where we are. Switzerland does not practice the automatic exchange of tax information. She committed herself to doing so in 2018, but her commitments are so numerous that I wonder if she really intends to keep her word. In any case, it must hear, from the rostrum of the French National Assembly, that there are parliamentarians who are very interested in the subject. We have questions to ask. At Basel-Mulhouse airport, I think everything has been said. I have nothing to add that may upset my colleagues who are interested in the local situation, although I ask them once again to think about it. But, in Switzerland, we have a duty to hold to account. Besides, we didn't take care of it. I found in La Tribune de Genève the echo of a meeting, in October 2016, during which the minister of finance of the time – it was therefore not me, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, Member of Parliament for La France insoumise, whom you might suspect to lack objectivity, but Michel Sapin – drew the attention of his counterparts to the very large free port of Geneva, which is, within walking distance of France, the equivalent of the cavern of Ali Baba. The French minister said he had spoken with Federal Councillor Ueli Maurer, who was also present in the United States for the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund. Mr. Secretary of State, can you instruct us about the outcome of this exchange? Ever since you were in office, have the Swiss come close to you remembering what they have said to Mr Sapin and what they have to say to you, so that this scandal can stop? The French government of that time, as I imagine, the present government wanted to know the identity of the owners of works of art deposited in these free ports, warehouses exempt from customs duties and VAT. Isn't it beautiful? For those who would not have really understood the weight of the moral interest that is not to allow tax evasion, the French minister had argued the threat of terrorism. At the time, there was a doubt about the issue. Everyone believed that the powerful and the important were all loyal, like Mr. Lafarge, of whom no one wanted to admit that his company would pay Daesh in order to be able to continue making cement. In 2016, the French minister asked his counterpart whether he realized that the Geneva warehouses contained works of art stolen in Iraq and Syria, in order to allow trafficking that will finance our enemies. Have we received the answer from the Swiss leaders? Have they taken into account the risk that such a situation poses to us? Did they let you know anything? Nothing has been said to us, which is a great pity. Two parliamentarians, one former MP, the other current senator, Alain and Éric Bocquet, wrote a study whose honesty was unanimously welcomed. They show how these warehouses are used to circulate money that used to travel in luggage. All this is intolerable, especially considering the bitterness of the negotiations that have had to be conducted. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, I am convinced that you and your predecessor, as well as the staff around you, have done for the best, taking into account a local situation that interests us all, but you have had to discuss with people who find it unbearable to pay an unfortunate tax on a plane ticket to participate in a global fund for the fight against AIDS. Yeah, even that tax, they don't want it! So we have reason to believe that these people are morally suspicious, and that in all possible ways in our eyes. Mr Jean Ziegler, a Swiss Member of Parliament who has failed to be a socialist, which, in spite of everything, does not seem insurmountable,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u14	But...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u15	... said to hold from Mrs Carla Del Ponte that 80% of the funds deposited in Geneva are made up of illegal money. Where did it come from? Not only tax fraud, but mafia, drug trafficking or human beings. Anyway, it's blood money! According to Mr. Ziegler, this figure is realistic. I won't say any more. I just wanted to take this opportunity to make known by my voice what corresponds to the deep conviction – I am sure – of the greatest number of us. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This is not Basel-Mulhouse airport. Let the city of Mulhouse live as long as it can and make the most of its talents. But, for the rest, it is understood that in France, no one is fooled by what Switzerland is today in the world of tax evasion, fraud and trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u17	Are we going to declare war on Switzerland?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u18	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u19	[[Smile]] You always have to spend time talking after Jean-Luc Mélenchon... Before coming to Basel-Mulhouse airport, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the quality of his work and the debates in committee. I would also like to thank Jean-Luc Mélenchon for allowing us to discuss this agreement in open session and to broaden the discussion. Don't worry, Mr. Fuchs, if I want to talk about international taxation and tax evasion from this text, which is so chronic, I don't take the bill hostage. That was done before me. I will simply go in the same direction as my predecessor and use his strengths and weaknesses to broaden thinking. The agreement with Switzerland on taxation at the Basel-Mulhouse airport is the result of very long negotiations, as you said, on the extremely complex legal status of this airport. Although situated entirely on French territory, the infrastructure is subject to a binational legal regime between Switzerland and France, making it a global exception. Almost seventy years after its creation, its location in the vicinity of Switzerland and Germany allowed for a rapid development of its activity. In 2016, all the lights are green and there are about 6000 indirect jobs in 115 companies, in addition to the 360 employees at the airport. The agreement must be subtle: it is a matter of keeping Swiss and French companies with different tax regimes, without destabilizing the local economic fabric. But, in our view, this balance between respect for legal regimes and respect for the economic influence of the airport is not perfect. There are two major doubts about its quality. Although they were discussed in committee, they were not dissipated. Firstly, the agreement poses major problems on State compensation to local and regional authorities because of the tax exemptions it provides for. Even if we recognize today that it is the result of a long work, an amendment can always be added in the future in order to improve the tax component for French communities. Which can do the most, can do the least. It is your responsibility, at the government level, to improve things. Secondly, not all gaps are filled in the legal soundness of the tax agreement, particularly as regards the automatic exchange of tax information. With regard to the exemption from territorial economic contribution, it must be stressed that the agreement is a failure, which will eventually be paid by local and regional authorities. The State is approving a tax cut to the detriment of the communities concerned, for several reasons. Firstly, the compensatory amount of EUR 3.2 million is arbitrary and does not correspond to the latest higher tax results. This is therefore a dry loss. Secondly, the State only compensates for an exemption, which raises two problems: the end of fiscal dynamism for local and regional authorities and the risk of a gradual set-aside of compensation. It is a speciality of government, not just the current government. It's been seen everywhere for years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u20	The situation is improving!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u21	We'll see. Overall, the movement started with the end of the housing tax is followed: the state redistributes what it sees fit, but when it was elected local, it is well known that at first the state compensates 100% and that after that it always justifies the reductions in endowments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u22	It is a shame that there are no more local elected representatives in this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u23	Yes! The movement of centralisation of tax collection is unbearable for the free administration of the municipalities. The end of the fiscal dynamic will disconnect local authorities from the economic future of the airport – even though strong growth is expected for the airport – even if the agreement includes an update to take account of inflation. It is therefore Swiss companies that will benefit fully from the benefits of growth. Now let's talk about the change in the tax system at the airport. One can hear the argument that everything had to be put back to the ground, since a tax control revealed a legal vacuum and turned it into a risk of high tax uncertainty for companies under Swiss law. On the other hand, we deplore the loss of profits in the face of the many challenges facing the nation. Even if the application of French common law taxation to all companies is unthinkable, it seems that the negotiation is in favour of Swiss companies and creates a certain loss of profits for the French tax – Jean-Luc Mélenchon has noticed before me – while the airport is in our territory. Thus, Article 2 of the agreement exempts commercial flights under Swiss traffic rights from civil aviation tax, introducing a much less burdensome consideration. Why is this one so weak? At the same airport, French companies pay a tax of €4.48 per passenger and Swiss companies pay only 1.73. This imbalance could cause damage within the airport companies. On the other hand, Article 4 makes Swiss companies subject to the Swiss VAT system, which is lower than ours, 2.5% and 7.7%. Again, a compromise could have been reached. For example, it was possible to allocate VAT points between France and Switzerland. Quit building an original device, why didn't you push originality to the end? But the most glaring lack of the agreement is the lack of automated exchange of tax information. Within the international framework we know in tax matters, France and Switzerland are both parties to the famous evolution proposed by the work of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) on BEPS, the English acronym for the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits. The BEPS is the global reference in the fight against tax erosion, which, let us recall, refers to strategies for the savage optimisation of taxation by companies that exploit the legal but immoral flaws of an incomplete system. The inclusive framework brings together more than 100 countries and jurisdictions working together to implement the BEPS measures and to combat erosion of the tax base and transfers of profits. Far from us the idea of putting suspicion on legal or natural persons having a customs activity in connection with the airport, or on other partners, but the agreement makes no mention of the automaticity of trade between tax institutions. We recall that the objective of the agreement, and indeed of all agreements, is less to avoid double taxation than to achieve effective taxation. Given this serious failure, I call on the Government today to commit itself to launching negotiations with Switzerland to integrate the automaticity of trade between tax institutions into the agreement in the future. This would allow us to guard against any malfunction before we had to suffer from a story similar to the one that the convention had to deal with. The legal situation at the airport is so complex that we believe it is essential that tax administrations should be able to agree and act in a coordinated manner. This is only possible with an effective exchange of information. Let us not forget that the system of tax evasion and erosion is extremely powerful and that, scandal after scandal, from the Offshore Leaks to the Paradise Papers, to the Swiss Leaks, diplomacy, especially to the OECD, even if it begins to move, does so far too slowly. It is therefore time for France to be up to the stakes and that, in a very pragmatic way – isn't it your culture now? – with each such agreement, it always pushes the other party to be as transparent as possible in tax matters. France has totally missed an opportunity to put pressure on Switzerland to move it forward on the road to tax transparency. For all these reasons, I find it difficult to vote for the Treaty. The guarantees concerning the compensation of the exemption from territorial economic contribution by the State are absent, which will further diminish the fiscal autonomy of the municipalities. Moreover, there is a real doubt as to the fiscal soundness of the agreement vis-à-vis fraudsters. The absence of the notion of automatic exchange between the French and Swiss tax services is unjustifiable and feeds the doubt I mentioned. Without automatic exchange, the temptation to use the legal loopholes of the Basel-Mulhouse airport tax system will be great for too many white-collar offenders. On the other hand, it seems important to us to put an end to the period of high legal uncertainty which has been hovering at this airport for several years. We will therefore abstain from this text, so as not to hinder the legal construction of the airport, which we hope will improve. But the strength of the trinational Eurodistrict of Basel, which is the source of tremendous political, cultural, urbanist creativity, must still be stressed, which I fully support. There's a lot to learn in this place. However, to express our dissatisfaction with the fact that this agreement does not include a financial regulatory instrument, we will not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u25	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u26	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that we are here to talk about a local problem, which affects a territory, a basin of life and employment. In your speech, Mr. Mélenchon, you seemed to forget this cross-border issue. Indeed, it is a bilateral relationship between two states, but for the inhabitants of France, as for those of Switzerland and Germany, we are talking here about the daily life, rhythmic by the border, which is part of everyone's life. The airport contributes significantly to cross-border mobility: three-quarters of Basel-Mulhouse employees reside in France and contribute substantially to the tax resources of municipalities located near the airport. Moreover, the relationship maintained by France and Switzerland is distinguished by numerous cultural exchanges, favored by efficient transport infrastructures. Our group therefore does not wish to be part of a general policy debate on Switzerland's fiscal conditions, as this is a light-years away from what the French and Swiss who share this territory are experiencing. This is not specific to Basel-Mulhouse, but concerns all Franco-Swiss borderers. It is a local economy that we are talking about, jobs that make families live and allow an entire region to prosper. The agreement in question puts an end to fiscal uncertainty. Indeed, the instability caused by the blurred rules of the 1949 Convention threatened the development of the airport. The dynamic of increasing Franco-Swiss cooperation in the field of tax and customs law is now reflected in a compromise between the taxes of the two countries, which offers greater legal certainty. This agreement is therefore a guarantee for the future. It has a consensus, which was not obvious, between our two States. Indeed, as you have pointed out, we do not necessarily share the same philosophy of taxation, but it was important to reach this agreement in order to maintain jobs. We must restore the opportunity for companies in the sector to consider the future calmly. Investments were suspended; They can now resume their courses. Above all, this agreement is not only a guarantee for the future of the airport, but also marks the solidity of relations between France and Switzerland. The elected representatives of the border know this: negotiating with our Swiss partners is not always easy. The institutions are different and the interlocutors are numerous; We need to reconcile sometimes divergent interests. But the excellence of our relationships and the quality of our exchanges very often lead to intelligent solutions. The one proposed today respects the expectations of the two States, the general interest and the needs of the inhabitants. It is the result of reflection and discussions that have proved fruitful. There is therefore no reason to oppose it. Switzerland is certainly not a Member State of the European Union, but it is a nation that is playing more and more the game of Europe. It belongs to many European bodies and makes important efforts to exchange information and bilateral agreements. We can only encourage this openness. The La République en marche group wishes the success of our territories in their specificities and the vitality of French and French. He trusted their elected representatives to identify measures that were closer to needs. Through this agreement, we allow 30,000 people to be recognized in their work and to contribute to national solidarity. We allow a French region to continue its development and increase its international trade. This will benefit all: the states, the local authorities, but above all, and most importantly, the Basel and the Alsatians. Please be aware, Mr Secretary of State, that another airport on Swiss soil, this one, also concerns us French and French: it is the Geneva airport, which is bordering my constituency of Ain, and which will also call for a national discussion. We thank the rapporteur for the quality and accuracy of his report and congratulate the actors who participated in the success of the agreement. We will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u28	Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u29	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are examining today is of particular importance for the so-called "Three Frontiers" region, of which I am a Member, but also for Alsace as a whole and, I dare say, for our country as a whole. Basel-Mulhouse Airport, commonly known as EuroAirport, has a special status, which I would call unique in the world. However, this status, Mr Mélenchon, has so far been particularly effective, since EuroAirport works very well: the number of passengers has increased from some 5 million to 7.3 million between 2011 and 2016, which in fact, as has been recalled earlier, the third Swiss airport behind Geneva and Zurich and the fifth French airport, outside Paris Airports. Its economic attractiveness is no longer to be demonstrated: there are some 120 international or internationally oriented companies, which benefit from its ideal geographical location, since it is located in France while being a few kilometres from Germany and Switzerland. There was no particular problem with the 1949 Franco-Swiss Convention, which laid down the main rules for the airport. While social uncertainties existed, we had reached a method agreement, thanks to the support of Mr Xavier Bertrand, then Minister of Labour, in order to secure labour law issues. Moreover, in the tax field, although you said, everything was fine as well. It took the previous government, certainly after a court decision...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u30	A detail!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u31	... challenges the 1949 Convention by deciding that all companies present at the airport would be subject to French taxation, which has destabilized a satisfactory state of affairs for all – for the employees, the local authorities and the companies concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u32	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u33	This caused – let's say, Mr Mélenchon – widespread panic. The companies threatened not to invest, or even – it was not blackmail, but it reflected a reality that the elected officials we have lived in – to leave Basel-Mulhouse airport to go to Geneva or Zurich, the latter being only about 80 kilometres away. It was therefore necessary to find a compromise, which took the form of this agreement. I welcome this and thank our rapporteur for the quality of his presentation. There are, of course, uncertainties that will have to be clarified in the coming months, but without calling into question the philosophy of this tax agreement. Indeed, the companies are looking primarily for stability, safety and visibility, as evidenced by the recent statement by EasyJet's sales manager, who announced that his company would reinvest in EuroAirport, after having frozen its investments since the 1949 convention was called into question. I would nevertheless like to make the national representation attentive to the problem of the resources of the French territorial authorities – the Grand Est region, the Haut-Rhin department and the communes. This agreement will lead to a dry loss for these local authorities, which will certainly receive 3.2 million, but will no longer benefit from a fiscal dynamic. The Secretary of State would not have to do what has unfortunately happened for six good years with the endowments to the communities: a gradual and steady decrease in their amount.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u34	It can change!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u35	Indeed, there is a risk that the $3.2 million will be reduced to $3 million and then $2.8 million. At a minimum, staffing perceived by our communities should be secured. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UAI groups]] Mr Mélenchon, although you said, it should be recalled that this airport represents 6000 direct jobs, of which 75% are occupied by French citizens, and 25,000 indirect jobs. Moreover, 40,000 frontier workers pass the border every day, earn money in Switzerland and spend it in France. If we add Franche-Comté, Jura, Savoie and Haute-Savoie to this, we measure how much frontier work is an opportunity, not only for the region of the Three Frontiers, but also for our entire country. That is why I insist that this House accept this convention, to which the Republican Group will vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u36	In the past, in the RPR, you cared for the general interest!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u37	Mr Michel Fanget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u38	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, our Assembly must today take a decision on the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the French Government and the Swiss Federal Council on taxation applicable within the Binational Airport of Basel-Mulhouse. As Bruno Fuchs has said, whose quality of rapporteur's work I would like to commend, his approval is very much awaited by the economic actors who are working around this airport. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement intends to give them satisfaction by voting in favour of it. I would like to elaborate on the reasons for this choice before calling your attention to a difficulty, highlighted by other speakers, that we will have to take into account when implementing the agreement, if this House decides to approve it. If we support this text, it is primarily because it promotes the development of a beautiful infrastructure, which is very important both symbolically and economically. In symbolic terms, the Basel-Mulhouse airport, which is rightly called "EuroAirport", is the product of an original binational initiative, which fits perfectly into the European project. Its creation in the spring of 1946, only a few months after the end of the Second World War, has, in a way, inaugurated the movement for the reconstruction of the European continent beyond borders. But, like the European project today, the Basel-Mulhouse airport needs a second breath, which is provided by this agreement. Moreover, from an economic point of view, it is sufficient to mention a few figures to convince itself of its importance: the main airport of the Grand East, the third Swiss airport, it generates a strong activity, hosting 126 companies and more than 6000 direct jobs; This activity benefits both France and Switzerland as well as Germany, which is also a neighbouring country, which is now associated, in an advisory capacity, with the management of the airport. We welcome this great European success and believe that the Franco-Swiss agreement, far from weakening it, makes it possible to strengthen it. The second reason for our support is that the agreement is correcting, and it is happy, a very old and very disadvantageous anomaly for France, caused by legal uncertainty. In the absence of an agreement between the French and Swiss governments on the conditions for the application of French taxation within the airport, an agreement required by the bilateral convention of 1949, French taxation has not been applied within the Swiss customs sector of the airport. As a result, Swiss taxation, which is more advantageous, has been applied to it alone, and this sector has proved to be much more attractive than the French sector. Today, while the airport is a public Franco-Swiss establishment managed on a par by both countries, but based in France and employing a large majority of French citizens and residents, 90% of flights departing from the airport are under Swiss traffic rights, while 75% of the companies located in its premises are in the Swiss customs sector. In 2009, the Conseil d'État considered, on the contrary, that French taxation should apply throughout the airport, which had a blocking effect on the development of its activities. It was therefore time to reach a compromise to restore the balance between the satisfaction of French interests and that of Swiss interests. The agreement that we are invited to ratify through this bill is the result of this compromise. It aims to generalise the application of the French corporate tax to the whole airport while at the same time saving the Swiss customs sector by exempting it from a few other French taxes. This pragmatic compromise seems to us to be generally satisfactory. The companies of the airport platform were asking for this clarification and were waiting for it to plan their activities and invest. It is interesting to note, as the previous speaker pointed out, that the EasyJet airline, confident about the approval of this agreement after its prior examination in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has just announced the purchase of two new aircraft based at Basel-Mulhouse airport and the opening of six new routes, which are expected to result in the immediate hiring of 72 people and the creation of 750 indirect jobs in the medium term. Approval of the agreement will validate this choice and should give comparable ideas to other investors. Finally, the third reason for our support is that this agreement is, in a way, a laboratory for tax harmonisation, which we call for at European level, in order to prevent unfair competition between States and between companies. It also participates, at its level, in the normalization of the situation of Switzerland in tax matters. Indeed, Switzerland has often been described as a tax haven. This may still be the case in part, but it is important to note the efforts made by Confederation over the years. Switzerland is gradually moving to international standards for tax transparency; In particular, it has accepted the automatic exchange of information, which will be effective from 1 January next. Last June, it also signed, in Paris, the multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits; In other words, the measures to combat the tax evasion of multinationals advocated by the OECD. Mr Mélenchon will probably find that this is not enough; So do we. However, within the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, we prefer to support initiatives that are going in the right direction rather than spending our time indignant at what is not sufficiently accomplished. This does not, of course, prevent us from calling on the European authorities to go further in the fight for tax justice and against tax evasion, which undermines the confidence of our societies. The recent publication by the European Commission of a blacklist of tax havens is, from this point of view, another good news, even if, again, we must go further. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore vote in favour of this bill and call on all the benches of this assembly to do the same. However, I would like to draw your attention, like other speakers, to a potentially problematic point. A fixed share of EUR 3.2 million is reserved for local authorities to compensate for the local tax exemption enjoyed by companies in the Swiss customs sector of the airport. This compensation is the result of a compromise, it has the merit of existing, but it does not take sufficient account of the evolution of the tax bases linked to the economic situation of the airport. If it continues to grow, communities may find themselves harmed. This could also affect the physical development of the airport, as land-owner communities would have no incentive to give in to the airport. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I therefore call on the French and Swiss authorities to take into account, perhaps with corrective measures, the potentially negative effects of this arrangement on the communities and on the development of the airport. My group will be particularly vigilant on this point and we trust our colleague Bruno Fuchs, Member of Parliament for Mulhouse, to alert us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u40	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u41	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is with special pleasure that I address you today in order to defend this agreement between France and Switzerland on the taxation of the airport at Basel-Mulhouse. Indeed, this agreement concludes several years of work and negotiations to which I had the honour of contributing when I held the position of Delegate Chairman of the Mulhouse agglomeration. It is especially close to a decade of crisis around this airport, a crisis that has profoundly threatened the attractiveness and competitiveness of the entire Alsace region and the border regions surrounding it. To understand the text before us, it is essential to go back in time and question history. After the Second World War, Alsace, annexed by the Third Reich, became French again. For the third time in seventy years, Alsace was bruised by a conflict between France and Germany. More than ever, Alsace wants to turn the page of nationalisms and embark on European integration. The year 1949 marked an important date for it, with the signing of two fundamental international agreements: the Treaty of London, which founded the Council of Europe, with its headquarters in Strasbourg, and the Berne Convention, concerning the construction and operation of an international airport in southern Alsace between Mulhouse and Basel, located largely in the territory of the municipality of Blotzheim. The Berne Convention is exemplary in several ways. This is first and foremost a good illustration of the cooperation between France and Switzerland around objective interests in the development of the same area, that of the Upper Rhine, by providing it with common infrastructures. It is also the birth of a subtle compromise between our two nations: France brings the land, Switzerland brings the money needed to build the terminals, the parking lots and the slopes. This compromise leads to a unique system, since the airport, which will later be named EuroAirport, is a unique model in the world. Only binational airport, it is built symmetrically: on the one hand a part for France, on the other part a part for Switzerland. The Swiss part, which is only a few kilometres from Basel, is connected to Switzerland by a secure customs road, so it is possible to reach the airport directly from Switzerland without crossing a border, which is located within the airport terminal itself. Besides, fun detail, it is the only place in the world where you can find a removable border: on the fifth floor of the airport, in the restaurant, a removable partition, which moves according to needs, delimits the border. The balance was ensured by the application of French law in the French part and Swiss law in the Swiss part. This model, beneficial to both sides, is the basis of an incredible success. While the city of Mulhouse and its agglomeration have only 110000 and just under 300,000 inhabitants respectively, they benefit from a European-scale airport. Airport traffic reaches 7.5 million passengers per year, and more than 100 destinations are served. It is possible to connect from EuroAirport all European capitals, including regional capitals, as well as major sites in the Mediterranean basin and some destinations around the world. For the past few years, the airport has also been equipped with a cargo terminal that connects the region to all continents and thus allows the rapid passage of products to all corners of the world. To this dynamic airport quickly added a clean on-site economic dynamic thanks to the arrival of so-called runway edge industries. After Lufthansa Technik, Swissport and Air Service Basel, Jet Aviation and Amac Aerospace settled in the industrial areas within the perimeter of the airport. These last two companies have become world leaders in aircraft interior design,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u42	With subcontracting!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u43	... leading to the creation of many specialized jobs, particularly in the craft industry: cabinetmakers, tapestries, designers in addition to the traditional mechanics, electricians and other specialists in avionics. In total, EuroAirport will create more than 6500 permanent jobs, two thirds of which are French, and more than 20,000 indirect jobs, thus becoming a major asset for all the attractiveness and competitiveness of the Upper Rhine region, which extends from the cantons of Basel and Freiburg to Strasbourg, whose status as European capital is linked to its accessibility. You will have understood this: the Franco-Swiss model was an undeniable success for the development and outreach of EuroAirport and, beyond that, of a whole region. This model seemed deeply enduring, but the crisis of 2008 slightly undermined job dynamics. This is when the model begins to weaken. While local courts have been applying the law and customs applied since 1949, national courts consider that the airport is situated on French soil, French law must apply to it, including in the Swiss area of the airport. The decision of the Council of State, then that of the Court of Cassation of 23 March 2011, resonated as a thunderstorm for the whole region, especially since, after the administration of labour, it was the turn of the tax administration to rely on the Court's conclusions and on the concept of territoriality to impose French law in the Swiss area of the airport. Over the years, however, EuroAirport had become a stark witness to the loss of competitiveness of French law vis-à-vis its neighbours. It is simple to imagine the situation: French law, with its thirty-five hours per week, applies a few metres away from Swiss law, remaining at forty-one hours, a difference of seven hours, which is the equivalent of an additional working day per week.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u44	We can talk about salaries!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u45	Employees are well paid!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u46	Social security contributions are also more favourable in Switzerland, since they are lower, but gross wages are much higher. Finally, tax law is more advantageous in Switzerland. In other words, the rapid shift from the application of Swiss law to the application of French law in the Swiss area of the airport – which it is false to call a non-right zone, since Swiss law, in particular Swiss taxation, applies to it – resulted in an overall increase in company charges from 20 to sometimes 50%, which was totally unbearable for most of them. The application of this case law meant in a way not only the death of the airport's binational model, but also the probable death of the airport itself, with its 6500 direct jobs and its 20,000 jobs induced. It therefore posed a threat to all the attractiveness of the Upper Rhine region. It was therefore necessary to restore by law the balance of the original situation and the competitiveness of the Swiss EuroAirport area, in order to ensure the maintenance of jobs and the continuity of economic dynamics. Thus, on 22 March 2012, a method agreement on labour legislation annexed to the Berne Convention was concluded between France and Switzerland. The thorny issue of taxation remained to be addressed, all the more complex since it was part of a context of budgetary rigour and a decline in the allocations of local authorities. That is the answer to this question that you are proposed to bring this afternoon. As the Government and the rapporteur have rightly presented, this reply is balanced, as it maintains the principle of a French law with exceptions, in particular with regard to airport taxes, VAT, capital taxes and local taxes in the Swiss airport sector, and provides for the sharing between France and Switzerland of income from taxation on companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Here I would like to thank the successive governments of France and Switzerland, which have been working since 2012 to create such an agreement. By allowing it to be approved today, ladies and gentlemen, you will not only close almost a decade of crisis at Basel-Mulhouse airport. You will restore the spirit of the founders of the Berne Convention and you will write a new page on the competitiveness and attractiveness of an entire region. Beyond the 26500 jobs saved, it is tomorrow new jobs that will be created, like the 72 announced last week by an airline that welcomes the prospect of the entry into force of the agreement. It is a whole region, the upper Rhine region, which thanks you for making the path of will, pragmatism, European momentum and economic dynamism triumph over that of immobilism, dogmatism and resignation. May this path, chosen today, inspire the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u47	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u48	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a specialist at Basel-Mulhouse airport. Deputy of Dunkirk, I also come from the old world, which makes it even more complex. Discovering this little tax haven, I wondered if there were other French enclaves that were little or no equivalent. Earlier, young pupils from the Pyrenees were in the stands of our Chamber, which reminded me of the enclave of Llívia, composed of Catalans living in France. Everything is normally carried out there, both school transport and the relations between French and Catalan Spaniards – and no tax haven! The speech of our colleague who preceded me in this rostrum, who quickly summarized the Franco-German conflicts, reminded me of the Obermundat forest, whose area is close to – 500 or 600 hectares of memory. Annexed in a rather special way by France in 1946, it is now administered by the National Forestry Office as a French territory located in Germany, on which French VAT applies. I also thought about the Medici villa, but there is no paradise there, except cultural! I finally thought of Longwood, a French territory located on the island of St. Helena that could connect us by air to our text, since it has been served by air for a year, which is a first.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u49	From Basel-Mulhouse?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u50	[[Smile]] Soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u51	But not all of these places are tax havens. Mr Fuchs, I congratulate you on the quality of your report, which is exceptionally clear. Everyone can be there, as the previous speakers have reminded me. He made an honest and reasoned presentation of the situation – or a republican one – of the situation. It is economically clear. In particular, we learn that there is a no-right zone, let's say it clearly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u52	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u53	This is an area governed by Swiss law in France, where French law must apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u54	There's a convention!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u55	The existence of a no-right zone is dangerous for everyone, including investors, who tend to fall back in the event of uncertainty. Moreover, this was not advantageous for France. While the convention we are examining today is nothing exceptional, there is still some progress in it. [[Exclaims on several benches]] These may be due to the fact that Switzerland – no one has recalled it – has been more cooperative in recent years, even modestly. Deputy of the old world, I will go against the air of time and evoke an old poster campaign: for the moment, Switzerland only removes the top, and this is not necessarily the most interesting! This is therefore a very moderate development. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have the right to have a little humour and not to insist on moralism at all times! The image seems to me quite right: Switzerland only removes the top. Therefore, we are not certain of the degree of transparency we can expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u56	It's the Alsatian hair!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u57	More seriously, the Council of State whistled in 2009 at the end of recreation, indicating that the situation could not last any longer. There is another reason to study and ratify the Convention. As you have made clear, Mr rapporteur, we had to put an end to the uncertainty. There was an urgent need, particularly in the area of employment. This agreement has several interests. First of all, it preserves the economic attractiveness of the region, as you wish, in unison of the 7,000 people directly employed by the airport and the 25,000 whose employment depends on it. Secondly, it introduces legal certainty. Every investor must ascertain the legal basis on which he/she acts. This agreement is necessary because we have almost reached a no man's land that is not meant to reassure the people who invest, whether they are French or Swiss.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u58	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u59	It is clear that taxation remains unfair, but it is less unfair than before. Thus, it is still not part of a national framework. Despite the loss of revenue that local authorities can expect, there is a guarantee. On the other hand, the VAT rate remains separate from that in force elsewhere in France, which is very damaging and even harmful, in the case of a French territory. However, taxation will follow French law and revenue will be shared equally. Finally, the main thing remains employment. Many workers and handlers work at this airport. It would be tricky not to show republican reason and not to ensure that they will retain their jobs, despite our reluctance. This is the view of a Dunkerquois on this subject, of which he is not a specialist. There is a free zone in my city, established by Jean-Louis Borloo; She did a lot of good in Dunkirk. Of course, it escapes the traditional rules of equality in the face of taxation, but it saves many poor people. Perhaps this is not the case here, but I have a vision of free zones based on my personal experience. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and LR groups]] We, French, are willing to give lessons; We still think we're right. So I wondered if there was a French enclave in a tax haven. There is one: Victor Hugo's house in Guernsey – but there, no tax haven!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u60	Excellent! We've traveled!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u61	Bravo! Nice conclusion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u62	Mrs Marion Lenne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u63	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the originality of the Basel-Mulhouse airport has been repeatedly recalled. Located on French soil, at the crossroads between France, Germany and Switzerland, it is part of a binational Franco-Swiss regime. Its special status, in particular its singular tax regime, derives from the Franco-Swiss Convention of 4 July 1949 laying down the conditions for the application of taxes and taxes within the airport. Finally, an agreement is planned! The term "tax justice" is often used. In this case, this agreement is fair, as it subjects the Basel-Mulhouse EuroAirport to corporate tax. It will therefore put an end to a tax situation unfavourable to France. In addition to this purely fiscal aspect, it has real stakes with concrete consequences for the borderers. This airport is located in one of the most economically important cross-border basins in Europe. By putting an end to legal uncertainties, this agreement will encourage Swiss companies to invest in the Swiss sector, thus maintaining jobs in the area and facilitating the creation of new jobs. Ranked seventh at French airports in 2016, Basel-Mulhouse Airport is offering services to travellers around the world. It hosts more than 20 airlines, offers more than 90 destinations in some 30 countries, including several intercontinental routes every day, and hosts four express freight providers. Ratification of the text is therefore essential to preserve the attractiveness of this airport site, in the interest of the whole trinational region. Currently, France and Switzerland are working together in many areas. As far as transport is concerned, one of the major challenges is to develop cross-border mobility, as evidenced by the EuroAirport rail connection project and that of the Cornavin-Eaux-Vives-Annemasse section, the CEVA, centered on the Greater Geneva, which dates back more than a century and will come into being in 2019. The continuation of the ambitious project of the Léman Express will eventually allow to connect by rail the shores of Lake Geneva from the Geneva-Cointrin International Airport, realizing a dream shared from one bank to another and responding to an absolute necessity in a tense area with forced relief. Acting in favour of cross-border mobility requires strong political will on both sides of the border. Ratifying the text will send a positive signal to our Swiss friends, waiting for the French authorities to issue more, in particular regarding the resumption of work on the southern section of the future Léman Express, which will be the first cross-border RER. President of the friendship group France-Switzerland and elected in a constituency bordering Switzerland, I thank the Federal Council for having approved the agreement we are discussing today as early as January. The French Senate ratified it last November. Its adoption in this Chamber will symbolise the robustness of the principles that unite us and the long-standing nature of our relations, sometimes complex but in any case increasingly comprehensive. The political determination to maintain the binational character of the airport demonstrates how much it is an asset to both our countries. I agree with the comments made by our colleagues and support the ratification of the agreement in order to reassure all stakeholders, both economic and political, as well as border citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and LR groups]] In order for the agreement to enter into force on 1 January 2018, the national representation must ratify the text before the end of the year. Thus, for a good understanding with Switzerland – whose Federal Assembly has just elected the new President, Alain Berset, whom I congratulate – let us end with the tax dispute and keep our cross-border cooperation calm!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u64	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u65	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the national representation is invited to take a decision on a single binational tax agreement of its kind. Indeed, as the rapporteur pointed out, the case of the Basel-Mulhouse airport has no historical equivalent in terms of international cooperation. This specificity, consubstantial in the context of its creation more than seventy years ago, as well as its location on French territory despite its Franco-Swiss status, has naturally given rise to certain distortions of tax law. They have fed into legal uncertainty that is detrimental to States and to the actors concerned, which this agreement effectively removes. The agreement on the Basel-Mulhouse airport is the result of a long negotiation between the French and Swiss authorities, whose views on taxation are sometimes divergent. It is the result of several consensus between the two administrations, and even the three if one takes into account the Swiss cantonal level, which is very important. Like any compromise, it is partially unsatisfactory for each Contracting Party. However, I will insist on the provisions that bring us closer together, because they far outweigh those that divide us. Located at the crossroads of the French, Swiss and German borders, Basel-Mulhouse-Fribourg Airport is at the heart of one of the most important cross-border economic basins in Europe. Alsace, North-West Switzerland and Baden-Württemberg are three strong regions whose dynamism is reflected in the economic success of the airport's infrastructure. In 2016, they welcomed more than 7.3 million passengers. This is why the Basel-Mulhouse airport, the well-named EuroAirport, leads to loyalty rather than attrition. For the next 10 years, forecasts tend to maintain an average annual increase of 4% in passenger traffic and 2.4% in freight activity, mainly driven by the expansion of e-commerce. Furthermore, the airport's project to connect to the trinational rail network will contribute to the growth of its business and the attractiveness of the entire region. In terms of employment, approximately 6400 people were employed by the airport or one of the 115 companies established on the site in 2016, an annual increase of 3%. Three-quarters of them reside in France and participate actively in local economic activities and tax resources. In addition, the airport forms a centre of specialised industrial expertise in the planning and maintenance of private aircraft, employing more than 2,000 employees in this single major sector. Finally, the airport is a major opportunity to promote regional tourism, particularly among non-European travellers, including from the United States. In 2016, the number of tourists in the region was nearly 1 million, up 60,000 from last year. Tourists make up about 30% of passengers arriving in Basel-Mulhouse. The economic benefits are essential: the estimated impact of tourism on the turnover of companies in the trinational region is estimated at 230 million euros – it is not Jean-Luc Reitzer who will contradict me! EuroAirport's contribution to local economic dynamism is undeniable. However, since the signing of the 1949 Constituent Convention and despite the provisions contained in Annex II thereto, no bilateral agreements have been entered into on taxation matters. It is therefore up to the French and Swiss States to finally provide this structure and the companies which exercise clear tax rules, which can guarantee the legal certainty of the players, because this is the condition for the development of a prosperous activity. It is organised around three axes: the agreement provides a welcome clarification of the tax status of the airport site and the public establishment that governs it. The company is now subject to the French corporate tax, which it escaped until 2015. In terms of economic performance, this pitfall represented a considerable tax shortfall. In 2016, EuroAirport reported a result of EUR 24.8 million after paying EUR 6.9 million for this tax. The agreement contains a rationalisation of aviation taxation which remains advantageous for airlines, since they are subject to a specific contribution of EUR 1.73 per passenger, much less than the ordinary civil aviation tax. This contribution, however, regularises an illegitimate situation: 90% of flights covered by Swiss traffic rights, the vast majority were not subject to French taxation, whereas the management of air navigation management and control is the responsibility of French civil aviation, in accordance with Article 4 of the 1949 Convention. Finally, the agreement regulates the taxation of the 61 Swiss companies located in the Swiss customs sector of the airport, which alone employ 4900 people, or more than three quarters of the actual jobs. Until then, most of them were exempt from French taxation, taking advantage of the weak regulations and their establishment in this customs sector, without, however, being subject to equivalent taxation by the Swiss administrations, because of their location on foreign soil. They are now taxed fairly between the national and cantonal administrations, subject to the French company tax, Swiss VAT and the canton of Basel-Ville tax on capital. As such, they are exempt from French local taxes and mainly from the territorial economic contribution, the loss of profits for the authorities being offset by the annual levy mechanism of EUR 3.2 million on the taxation of the managing institution provided for in Article 1. I am convinced that this bilateral agreement is the most effective compromise that can be achieved. It removes the uncertainties that have persisted for too long, brings the clarity necessary for a fair tax framework for economic actors, while preserving the dynamism of their activities. More broadly, this agreement represents a new stage in the renewal of Franco-Swiss relations, now under the sign of cooperation, and turns the page of some mistrust or misunderstanding that had been possible in recent years. It is in the interest of our citizens and businesses to maintain this positive momentum and to promote an approach to cooperation on issues, which involves us alongside all our neighbours. This philosophy is undeniably bearing fruit, even beyond the specific tax case of Basel-Mulhouse airport and the companies it houses. All areas of cooperation between our two countries must now benefit from such an approach and thus be able to contribute effectively to common prosperity. Among these, scientific cooperation deserves to be stressed, with the European Centre for Nuclear Research, numerous exchanges of students, double degrees between universities. In tax matters, our two jurisdictions benefit from the resumption, on July 12, of joint work on the exchange of tax information. This agreement, based on respect for the principle of specialty, was obtained a few days before the visit to France of the President of the Confederation, Ms.Leuthard. Economic cooperation is equally crucial: France is Switzerland's third largest economic partner and achieved a trade surplus of €1.3 billion in 2016. In the fight against terrorism and its financing, our services also benefit from converging methods and data. In terms of managing migration flows, it should be noted that Switzerland has been very active in the scheme for the relocation of refugees. Finally, this bilateral and multilateral cooperation is crucial in the fight against global warming, particularly through Switzerland's role in setting up the Green Climate Fund. More concretely, France and Switzerland are working together on projects that give substance to our will for joint actions. Cross-border transport infrastructure projects are a good example, such as the reopening of the Belfort-Delle-Bienne railway line to passengers next year. As Olga Givernet and Marion Lenne pointed out, the project to link the railway networks of the canton of Geneva and Haute-Savoie, and in particular the Cornavin-Eaux-Vives-Annemasse section, is intended to allow the connection of the French and Swiss railway networks: on 8 December, the station of Lancy-Pont-Rouge was put into service. We welcome the progress of these projects, which allow for an efficient and environmentally friendly alternative to public transport. Moreover, the agreement on Basel-Mulhouse airport goes beyond the Franco-Helvetic relationship stricto sensu. Germany benefits from this infrastructure and the door it opens to the world. With Switzerland's presence in the Schengen area, this agreement can be described as a success of European cooperation. The path that led to the conclusion of this agreement is an example of all the cross-border cooperation projects that France wishes to establish with its neighbours. I would like to thank our Swiss partners for their ability to reach consensus throughout these negotiations, and I hope that our cooperation will only strengthen in the future. I am thinking in particular of the source of inspiration that it provides for its dual training model, via learning channels with great added value in terms of employability, which contributes to its status as a large industrial country – more than 20% of GDP – and, interestingly, in its most rural regions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] This progress announces new opportunities for the development of our bilateral relations for the benefit of both our citizens and our companies and their Swiss counterparts in all fields. However, this will must be expressed within the framework of the European institutions, and not only within the framework of bilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u66	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u67	Several remarks have been made, and I have to make some clarifications. With regard to Franco-Swiss tax relations, Switzerland respects the provisions of the bilateral agreement, in particular with regard to the exchange of information. With a view to modernising the Convention, we are seeking to go as far as recovery assistance, in order to make it more effective. As part of the CR9 project, Switzerland has undertaken to exchange certain banking information from 2018. It is also a party to the OECD Multilateral Treaty, which implements the BEPS project, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. The main challenge for France is to ensure that Switzerland agrees to implement similar measures bilaterally, in order to be more effective in the exchange of information. The Government wishes to advance these issues; I will work on it during my trip, in the coming months, in Bern and in the Swiss Jura. The franchise regime for free ports is a subject of debate within the Financial Action Group – FATF. Again, France will not hesitate to put the work back on the job. Compensation to local authorities was an issue that could bring the negotiations to a halt, even if it was in the interests of both parties to achieve a permanent and clear system. We have found this balance, despite the lack of appetite shown by our neighbours. The compensation of 3.2 million certainly does not take into account the economic dynamics of the airport. However, it will be divided equally between the two parties, being deducted from the tax paid by the public institution. In addition, Article 5 of the Agreement provides for an appointment clause: the parties will meet in five years' time to adjust the provisions to the economic dynamics of the airport. I can only draw a better source from the report, in which Bruno Fuchs states that this agreement "constitutes a compromise and the communities in whose territory the airport is located must take into account all the economic and fiscal interests involved in clarifying the tax situation". The development of the activity should compensate for some losses, which would have occurred anyway since some erosion was observed in the collection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u68	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u69	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u70	For an explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Laurent Furst, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u71	I would like to start with a historical reminder. After the war, it seemed natural to build a single airport. It was necessary to do according to geography, the mountain on one side, a flat terrain on the other. It was necessary to do so according to the means, which at that time were on the Swiss side. It was common sense that led to the creation of the airport, and the airport was a success. Let us pay tribute to those who have realized it. Where would the passengers who frequent this platform today, if it had not been created, have gone, leading to such a dynamic? They would have travelled to Zurich, but especially Stuttgart, Frankfurt and Baden-Airpark.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u72	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u73	No French employees are employed, while 25,000 jobs, including 6,000 direct jobs, are linked to Basel-Mulhouse airport. The French are the great beneficiaries. If this airport were not dynamic, France would have nothing, no tax revenues, no jobs, no social security contributions. If you want to make sure, look at the fate of the Strasbourg airport, whose development has been annihilated by that of the neighbouring German airports. Their development depends on the tax system applied to airports.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u74	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u75	I would like to thank those who have taken over this political issue, not in the political sense, but because it is simply useful for the nation. [[Smile]] One last sentence, ladies and gentlemen: I love Switzerland! This statement may make you smile, but let's not forget that Switzerland is 130,000 frontier jobs for the French – 30,000 for the Alsatians. We may have a difficult relationship with our neighbours, but this relationship is fruitful for our country and, if we have to have discussions with them, we have an obligation, above all, to respect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u76	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u77	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u78	Abstention!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u79	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part (No 152, 242).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u80	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u81	Madam President, the Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have met this afternoon to discuss the bill authorizing the ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Kazakhstan, signed in 2015. This agreement, the first of its kind with a Central Asian country, is intended to replace the Partnership and Conventional Cooperation Agreement signed with Kazakhstan in 1995, which entered into force in 1999. The negotiations of this Agreement began in 2011, at the request of Kazakhstan, and were concluded in 2014. The agreement was then initialled and signed in two stages: first by the Member States on the margins of a Foreign Affairs Council, then by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mrs Federica Mogherini. It was ratified by Kazakhstan in 2016, as well as by 17 EU Member States. The provisions of this agreement concern respect for democratic values and the rule of law and the strengthening of our cooperation in foreign policy. Kazakhstan has a foreign policy which it itself calls "multi-vectorial", and we regularly find areas of cooperation with it, in the crises that are shaking the world. This agreement also provides, of course, for the strengthening of our commercial relations, as well as for greater cooperation in the fields of justice, freedom and security. The stakes of this text are multiple. Firstly, we wanted to enhance the partnership between Kazakhstan and the European Union, since this agreement has a more strategic dimension. It also responds to a logic of differentiation, which has always been ours vis-à-vis the countries of Central Asia. Our responsibility is to encourage these countries to intensify their relations with the European Union and to stress France's commitment in this regard. Secondly, we must support Kazakhstan in its economic and social development. The country has the most dynamic economy in the region, accounting for 70 per cent of the region's GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u82	That's not the case anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u83	The European Union is Kazakhstan's largest trading partner and the largest foreign investor in Kazakhstan, with a stock of 42 billion euros. Despite a still difficult business climate, marked by the preponderance of the Kazakh public sector, the country has a strong desire to become a regional transit platform between Europe, Russia and China. Its accession to the World Trade Organization in 2015 and its rise to the 50th place in the Doing Business ranking show an improvement in the economic environment in which companies operate. Kazakhstan is also participating, together with the European Union, in the rule of law initiative, which took the form of a platform, led by Germany and France. This is again the sign that the country is moving in the right direction. This agreement has a special resonance for France, since Kazakhstan has been its only strategic partner in Central Asia since 2008. We have a high-level political dialogue with the Kazakh authorities, fuelled by regular meetings. France is Kazakhstan's third European partner, with an investment stock of 11.2 billion and 3 billion trade in 2016. I went to Kazakhstan a few weeks ago to take part in a joint Franco-Kazakhstan economic committee and I was able to see that many French companies, such as Airbus, Air Liquide, Alstom, Areva, Thales, Total or Vicat, to name but a few, are involved, including in the form of joint ventures. This agreement will therefore only strengthen this French presence. It will also create a more secure framework for European actors and make the country's authorities more accountable to the European Union because of certain legal provisions. Finally, within a more general framework, this agreement is part of the European Union's strategy for Central Asia, which was launched in 2007 and which we will have to revisit in 2019. All the work that your Committee on Foreign Affairs can produce on the development of this region will be examined with interest and will serve as a basis for strengthening and updating our ties with these countries. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] These are the broad lines of this agreement. I have gone to the essentials, to leave it to our rapporteur to give you more details.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u84	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer, alternate Mr Guy Teissier, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u85	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, I must apologize to our colleague Guy Teissier, the rapporteur of this bill, who, for major reasons, cannot be present today and has asked me to present his report to you. The European Union and Kazakhstan concluded a so-called "partnership and enhanced cooperation" agreement in December 2015 to replace the first partnership and cooperation agreement they signed in 1995. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreements, known as the PCA, are a classic tool for European Union diplomacy. PCAs were signed from the 1990s with all the countries of the former USSR and then with several Asian countries. Kazakhstan is, however, the first country with which a so-called "enhanced" PCA is concluded, to follow up on the first agreement. This shows the importance that Europeans, on the one hand, and this country, on the other, attach to their relations. Kazakhstan is an important partner. Seen from our home, this relatively modest country, since it has only 17 million inhabitants...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u86	What about Switzerland?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u87	... is certainly not a major economic partner. It accounts for only 0.5% of EU trade and 0.3% of France's trade. However, it plays an important strategic role for certain raw materials: for example, it is the world's largest producer of uranium and, in the case of oil, France's second largest supplier and the fifth or sixth largest in the European Union. Kazakhstan is also seeking to diversify, based on innovation, new technologies and sustainable development. Finally, it wants to position itself as an interface between Asia and Europe, by developing its transport infrastructure – nearly 2500 kilometres of railway tracks have been built in recent years. These initiatives echo the project launched by China, of which we are talking a lot right now, of the "new silk road", which foresees – stand up! – $40 billion in investment for Kazakhstan alone. This country is indeed becoming a gateway between East Asia and Europe. Kazakhstan accounts for almost 40% of its external trade with European countries, and the European Union is, as a whole, its largest trading partner, ahead of Russia and China. Similarly, more than half of the foreign investment made in Kazakhstan comes from European companies. This country has active and positive diplomacy, and two very powerful neighbours, Russia and China. Moreover, there is still a large Russian-speaking minority, making it an ally and a faithful friend of Russia. Nevertheless, it is trying to play a moderator role. Moreover, it is currently hosting negotiations on Syria in Astana. He has renounced Soviet nuclear weapons and is also a lawyer for denuclearization. Finally, Kazakhstan does not want to be confined to too exclusive relations with its neighbours, be they Russian or Chinese. That is why it attaches great importance to the partnership with the European Union, which, for its part, also does not want to be uninterested – and that is happy! – Central Asia. It is therefore the common interest of Kazakhstan and the European Union to develop this partnership. The agreement we are considering today is a document that deals with many issues and has several hundred pages. However, it must be recognized that it includes many declarative provisions and, overall, few normative provisions. I recall that the European Union has several types of agreements with its partners: free trade agreements, first of all, which are described as comprehensive and in-depth, such as the CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – signed with Canada, which poses the problems we know; Association agreements, then, with some of our neighbours, in the East and South, which also have a very normative character and content; Finally, the visa agreements, which are very much demanded by our partners, and which have obvious migration implications. Partnership and cooperation agreements are none of this, and the one we are looking at includes mainly declarations of principle: some around sharing the values of democracy, human rights, the market economy and sustainable development; the rest, with a view to establishing bilateral cooperation in the field of foreign policy and in a large number of economic fields. Some more specific commitments relate to trade or market access, but most of them are the resumption of commitments made by Kazakhstan when it joined the World Trade Organization in 2015. In any case, Kazakhstan has acceded to the Eurasian Economic Union and cannot enter into preferential agreements with the European Union that would go beyond the general non-discrimination commitments made under the WTO. In addition, Kazakhstan's commitments include various restrictions on the entry of European expatriates into its territory and on the access of foreign companies to the mining sector, which is the main sector of the Kazakh economy. It is only in the area of public procurement that the agreement, as such, undoubtedly opens up new rights and benefits to European companies. In conclusion, I would like to address a sensitive issue, namely democratic values and human rights. Like all PCAs, the one we are looking at includes policy clauses on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u88	Beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u89	But, like many other signatory countries, Kazakhstan still has a long way to go in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u90	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u91	However, it should be noted, Mr Mélenchon, that despite these problems, some progress has been made recently. A constitutional reform was launched in 2017 to redistribute a share of power between the Government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u92	It worked well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u93	And President Noursultan Nazarbayev, in power since 1990, is true, preparing his succession and apparently renounced the hypothesis of a dynastic transmission of power. On the other hand, the regime in place – we must also have the courage to recognize it – has ensured some stability in Kazakhstan, which is not the case with all its neighbours. It also combats the deviances of Islam – this point must also be stressed – and the Constitution guarantees secularism. Nor should security issues be neglected. It is important to recall that Kazakhstan was subjected to two terrorist attacks in 2016, which killed more than 30 people, and that 500 to 600 young people from that country are currently being engaged in Syria and Iraq. In this context, what can an agreement like this bring to the cause of fundamental human rights? The thesis traditionally defended by European diplomats is that of small steps through dialogue. Rather than denouncing certain abuses, which obviously must be done, it is mainly a question of teaching. It is a question of convincing local elites that the rule of law, an honest and effective administration, reliable and independent justice are in their interest, that it corresponds to the expectations of their people and that they are also conditions for economic development. I would add that the agreement allows for "appropriate measures" to be taken in the event of violations of its essential provisions, including those relating to democratic values. In short, if necessary, its application could be suspended, and that is not pure theory, since, a few years ago, such an agreement with Uzbekistan had been suspended following bloody events in that country. In conclusion, it is an agreement that is certainly not perfect with a country that is not perfect either – but which is really perfect? It nevertheless responds to the shared interests of its signatories in the economic and political fields, as Central Asia cannot be left to the influence of Russia and China alone. The agreement has already been ratified by a majority of EU Member States, 17 to be precise. This bill will allow for its ratification by France. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has adopted it, and its rapporteur, Mr Teissier, to whom your servant has just lent his voice, invites you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u94	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u95	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the alternate rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Kazakhstan is the first country in Central Asia to which the European Union has proposed to conclude a strengthened partnership and cooperation agreement. It is indeed an important partner, not only economically, but also diplomatically. At the economic level, it has been recalled that Kazakhstan is traditionally an important supplier of raw materials, but we must not neglect its strategic position, between China and Eurasia: it is one of the countries most affected by the Chinese initiative of the new Silk Road. At the diplomatic level, as you pointed out, the alternate rapporteur, Kazakhstan, while being close to its two powerful neighbours – Russia and China – has always shown a desire to diversify its foreign policy, by maintaining or wishing to maintain, for example, good relations with the European Union. This country has made the bet of asserting itself through diplomatic action and mediation. I am of course thinking of the negotiations on Syria that have been taking place since January 2017 in Astana, under the auspices of Turkey, Iran and Russia; These negotiations, known as the "Astana Process", are held, I would remind you, in parallel with those in Geneva, under the auspices of the United Nations. This Agreement covers a wide range of areas of cooperation between the European Union and Kazakhstan, including the environment, transport, industry, trade, education and research. It recalls – this is a point of vigilance, obviously important for us – the commitment of the parties to democratic principles and human rights, specifically referring to the major founding texts in this field, in particular the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the final act of the Helsinki Conference. It also includes mechanisms to promote media independence or civil society capacity-building. We will, of course, pay close attention to all these issues. We are well aware that this agreement is not binding but an incentive. We hope that, through economic development and the dialogue initiated in particular by the European Union, the rule of law will progress and settle in that country. Although the situation is not satisfactory, some progress has been made recently, as you recalled, including with constitutional reform, which has finally created the conditions for a better balance of powers for the benefit of Parliament and the Government. I repeat: our role is to be attentive and to ensure that this movement towards full democracy and full rule of law continues. This agreement has already been ratified by a majority of Member States – seventeen, as you said, Secretary of State. I propose that you vote in favour of him, congratulating the rapporteur of our committee, Guy Teissier, for the quality of his report, and thanking Jean-Luc Reitzer for having replaced him with talent and enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u96	Thank you, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u97	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u98	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the other, which we are discussing this afternoon, is another cornerstone of the strategy of European influence in Central Asia. Kazakhstan occupies a fundamental geographical and therefore strategic place at the crossroads of Asia and Europe. Located between China and Russia, this country has understood, since the collapse of the Soviet Union, that its place was important; It has built up a solid diplomacy, which always works with this idea in mind. The great powers are not mistaken: the new land road known as "silk", promoted by China to secure the transport of its goods to Europe and Africa, crosses Kazakhstan, which is the essential geographical pillar. It was also in Astana, the Kazakh capital, that future Chinese President Xi Jinping announced in 2013 the establishment of this new silk road. With the billions of dollars of investment that accompany it, it is a boon for Kazakhstan, which is experiencing a period of very strong economic slowdown. Its GDP accounts for 70% of regional GDP and its growth is the most dynamic in Central Asia, but it fell from an average of close to 10% before 2008 to only 1% in 2016, due to too much dependence on oil exports and the Russian market. More generally, China is moving faster than the European Union in this state: in recent years, a large number of Chinese companies have taken stakes or bought – they are beginning to get used to it – Kazakh companies in the petrogazi sector. Opening up to Chinese, American and European investments allows President Nazarbayev to master a so-called "multi-vectorial" foreign policy, as you said, Secretary of State. It consists of attracting foreign capital by opening up to everyone simultaneously, so that the state meets the demands of the great powers while gradually gaining its independence from Russian tutelage – Kazakh diplomacy is balanced. For this reason, this country of only 10 million inhabitants – given its size, it remains a place – relies very largely on its numerous fossil resources, oil, gas, but also, of course, uranium. China and Europe see access to Kazakh resources as a skillful means of diversifying their oil and gas supply, which also provides an opportunity to do without the Gulf monarchies, at a time of renewed regional tensions between Iran, Israel and Saudi Arabia. That is why the European Union is keenly interested in this country, which, as it grows, will become increasingly important in this key region for the world trade of tomorrow. However, the country is handicapped by its political system, which is based on one man: the President of the Republic Noursultan Nazarbayev. He has been running the country since February 1990 – that has been said – and was previously, since 1984, Prime Minister of the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u99	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u100	This major democratic problem is a real obstacle to the movement towards international respectability of the country. In fact, the regime in place is not wrong: in its well-understood interest, it is beginning to let go of the ballast and to give the Western countries pawns – business is business, as they say. For example, this year we witnessed the release of Vladimir Kozlov, leader of the opposition coalition, who had been imprisoned since 2012. This regime is therefore not exemplary, far from it, in democratic matters. It is still gangred by extremely strong corruption, strict restrictions on freedom of opinion, including on the Internet, quasi-banning of opposition political parties, harassment of independent media and regular and brutal imprisonment of political opponents and human rights activists. The NGO Amnesty International is also very often calling for alarms on these issues. In order for this Treaty to honour the European Union, the European Union and its Member States will have to maintain genuine pressure to combat these serious and too many human rights abuses. Two issues are therefore at the heart of this partnership agreement: economically strengthening the links between the European Union and Kazakhstan, while at the same time including as much as possible the considerations relating to the protection of human rights and democracy. With regard to human rights, several provisions of the agreement stress the need for an active engagement of the country in political and democratic reforms. According to the report, the democratic aspect of future cooperation between the European Union and Kazakhstan will be monitored, inter alia, through interparliamentary cooperation between the two stakeholders. We will therefore have a role to play in that regard. The France-Kazakhstan friendship group of the National Assembly will have to have courage and frankness to take stock, at each meeting, of democratic developments and human rights in Kazakhstan. Other applications are incorporated into the agreement. It emphasizes the efforts to be made in the areas of impartiality of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, freedom of the press, freedom of expression, freedom of association and assembly, etc. It also focuses on social aspects, including labour laws, in order to promote the emergence of independent trade unions and ensure that Kazakhstan embraces international labour law standards. Organizations responsible for the observance of these standards will have to be very vigilant: the spectre of the massacre of dozens of oil workers on strike by the Kazakh police forces in 2011, remains a sharp trauma in memory and raises concern for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u101	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u102	It should not be forgotten that human rights were a foundation for peace and that, in order to achieve a more peaceful world, world diplomacy must ensure that they were preserved as best as possible. Perhaps Kazakhstan will bow to the demands of democracy and human rights through the purely liberal treaty, which is based on Montesquieu's idea that "trade... softens morals". For my part, I believe very little in this ideology, which too often went wrong, and I have the weakness to think that it is through diplomacy, by remaining as vigilant as possible, as the alternate rapporteur has wished, that the rules on human rights and democracy can be enforced. France and Germany, as co-ordinators of the European Union's initiative to strengthen the rule of law in Central Asia, must therefore be extremely vigilant and work together with Astana. The aim will be to advance social rights and human rights in that country, so that people and workers benefit better from the fruits of economic growth than today. Despite the strong reservations about human rights and the continuing monitoring that will be required in this area, this treaty seems to be in the right direction, that of the European Union being included in this region, which will be inescapable in the future. It is also the instrument of common-sense diplomacy, which attempts to place economic commitments and respect for human rights and democracy side by side. The GDR Group will therefore vote in favour of ratifying this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u103	You fell on your head!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u104	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u105	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the alternate rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Kazakhstan celebrated the twenty-sixth anniversary of its independence two days ago. It is therefore a happy coincidence that we are gathered this afternoon to discuss the bill authorizing the ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the other. As chairman of the France-Kazakhstan friendship group, I had the opportunity to interact on several occasions with the former Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Paris, Mr. Nourlan Danenov, and on 7 December I had the honour of welcoming his successor, Mr. Jean Galiev, for the first time. I also note another coincidence, even if I believe it by chance: Mr.Jean Galiev is at this very moment at the Elysée to hand over his credentials to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u106	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u107	At the request of Kazakhstan, the European Union agreed in 2010 to negotiate a strengthened cooperation and partnership agreement, replacing the previous agreement of 1995. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 30 August, Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, recalled that this new agreement represents a major step forward in strengthening the European Union's economic and political commitment to Central Asia. The European Union signed the agreement in two stages: first on 16 November 2015 in Brussels; then on December 21, 2015 in Astana, the capital of the country. Kazakhstan signed the agreement on 25 March 2016 and the ratification law was promulgated by President Nazarbayev. I would point out that this agreement has already been ratified by 16 Member States of the European Union. Indeed, this future-oriented nation, advocating pacifism and progress, is an important partner for our country, both in the economic and political fields. Is it really necessary to recall that Kazakhstan is opening up to the European Union and sees our country as a major partner? From its independence, acquired in 1991, France was called upon to participate in the drafting of its Constitution. President Nazarbayev praised the French values, which he is inspired by. This country, which is often unknown and misperceived, shows very encouraging democratic signs, which must be stressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u108	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u109	Thus, it should be recalled that this country is a major player in the resolution of crises and the pacification of the world. This is evidenced by the dismantling of its nuclear weapons. Mr Mélenchon, on 8 November last, you praised the countries that are committed to denuclearisation; And Kazakhstan is one of them! But it was midnight and, as we all know, it's an hour when anything can happen! I repeat to you, and I will have other opportunities to remind you, this is a real opportunity for our country to expand and intensify our ties with a nation that is resolutely forward-looking, and that is bound to strengthen its power in the coming years. This Agreement places emphasis on respect for democratic values and human rights, strengthening the fight against terrorism and trade cooperation. I'll give you the reasons for that. The enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement consists of a preamble, nine titles – consisting of 287 articles – and seven annexes. It is certainly a little long but interesting. The rule of law is essential in this cooperation, as evidenced by the importance attached to respect for democratic values and human rights – I stress on this point. As I was able to recall, Kazakhstan has made a great deal of progress in its society. While aware of the tasks that remain to be carried out, he works for the respect and valorisation of each of his citizens. It is very much inspired by the democratic principles and values advocated by the Charter of the United Nations. This friendly nation wishes to promote these universal values throughout Central Asia, in a process of liberalization of the States of this region. We must accompany this democratisation. The country, which is predominantly Muslim, offers complete religious freedom and has established a Council of Religions, in which the various religions have regular relations. President Nazarbayev also advocates multiculturalism. There is a need to strengthen cooperation on political dialogue, in particular through foreign and security policy. Conflict prevention and regional stability are key issues. Kazakhstan has also become an important mediator in the resolution of the Iranian nuclear issue and has repeatedly demonstrated its willingness to hold talks to resolve the situation in Donbass. At the moment, Astana, who received the 1999 UNESCO Cities for Peace Award – the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – is hosting the Syrian crisis resolution process. We must work closely with that country to prevent and combat terrorism at the regional and global levels. In addition, the agreement reflects a desire to increase cooperation in the field of trade and to encourage investment. The European Union is increasing trade agreements with Kazakhstan, particularly in the energy sector, as Kazakhstan has huge hydrocarbon resources. At the same time, Europe and Kazakhstan are pursuing green energy policies; This is reflected in the international Astana exhibition presented last summer, which promoted the energies of the future. It should be recalled that France is the third largest foreign investor in Kazakhstan. We have historically been involved in the energy sector for more than 20 years. Our technology exports massively and contributes to the country's energy transition to renewable energy. French investments are also concentrated in the rail transport sector – we have spoken on several occasions about silk roads – and aeronautics, with the important presence of Airbus – the headquarters of this group being located in my constituency, you will understand that I am particularly sensitive to this point. In addition, the European Union and Kazakhstan undertake to respect the rights and obligations set out in the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation. It was agreed that there should be no restrictions on the movement of capital or on payments. This Agreement calls for regular economic dialogue and the application of international standards and the European Union. In addition, the international exhibition of Astana put the issue of ecology and the fight against global warming at the heart of its policy. I would like to stress that this enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement is very timely for the European Union, for Kazakhstan, but also for our country. The European Union shall accompany and promote the development of Kazakhstan; At the same time, we are developing our trade and investment in this country. Kazakhstan extends its hand to Europe; Not accepting it would be a resounding failure and a huge loss. We must work to develop this partnership. Figuring a country in its past means giving it no chance for the future. Not to consider it as an important actor would be a misappreciation of the country's ability to act on the international stage. The proposed cooperation would be beneficial to the various parties and would allow the establishment of a close relationship between our continent and the first and growing power of Central Asia. This country asks us to accompany it in what it achieves. It is a people of courageous women and men, whom its leaders have decided to turn resolutely towards the future, a future made of exchanges, sharing and peace. For this reason, the working Republic Group has decided to support this partnership and cooperation text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u111	Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u112	[[Laughs]] Madam President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, we have met this afternoon to ratify the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan. This new agreement, signed in December 2015 and intended to replace the first partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Kazakhstan, does not require any specific comments from my group, Madam Chair of the Committee. Our rapporteur Guy Teissier, with the voice of his excellent alternate, has described very well the issues at stake, without denying and concealing the difficulties linked to the democratic situation and to the question of human rights; Our debate in committee, following the presentation of his report, attests to this. "Kazakhstan is the first of our Central Asian partners to conclude a new generation agreement with the European Union," Mogherini said when the agreement was signed. She added: "This new agreement will considerably strengthen the economic and political ties between the European Union and Kazakhstan. The new agreement will strengthen the legal basis for political and economic relations between the European Union and Kazakhstan by establishing a comprehensive framework for enhanced political dialogue and cooperation on justice and home affairs." It should be stressed that the agreement places particular emphasis on democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as on sustainable development and cooperation with civil society. The economic aspect of the agreement will ensure a better regulatory environment for economic operators in areas such as trade in services, establishment and operation of enterprises, capital movements, raw materials and energy, public procurement, and on the important issue of intellectual property rights. We particularly insist on this aspect of the agreement, this country being, I would remind you, France's first trading partner in Central Asia. France is Kazakhstan's sixth largest supplier, and our companies have made us the third largest foreign investor in the country. In fact, we have all insisted in committee on this aspect. Indeed, the economic development of the country seems to us to be the best way to enable it to be democratised, but also to combat the important phenomenon of the rise of extremism – our rapporteur said, as I recall, that more than 600 Kazakh citizens had joined Iraq or Syria. Finally, the agreement will strengthen concrete cooperation in some 29 other major areas of action, including economic and financial cooperation, energy, transport, environment and climate change, as well as employment, social affairs, culture, education and research. Our colleague Lecoq spoke in committee about the Astana cycling team, which regularly shines on European roads. For my part, I wish to recall the strategic importance of Kazakhstan in the conquest of space, since it is on this vast territory that Baikonur is located. The status of this city is certainly specific, but it reminds us of the importance of the Kazakh steppes in this great international project, which remains a source of cooperation, beyond diplomatic tensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u113	Like Basel-Mulhouse!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u114	That's right, Mr. Reitzer! Get up!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u115	Mr Mélenchon, while some countries seize and accuse themselves, their astronauts or cosmonauts turn over our heads, leave Kazakhstan or fall back, and thus advance research and science together. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Republican Group, that this agreement be approved by the widest possible majority, so that our country can join as soon as possible the 17 other members of the European Union who have already ratified it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u117	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u118	Suaccess to Mr. Reitzer is always a source of motivation and stimulation; I'll try to deploy equivalent energy. There are international trade agreements that are the subject of complex or even heated discussions; I am thinking in particular of CETA. This is clearly not the case of this Agreement, which is of a different nature; In my view, its ratification should not be a major problem. Firstly, it is desirable for the European Union to establish ever more relations with its close and distant partners, especially when they are friendly countries representing a major geostrategic issue, as is the case with Kazakhstan. Secondly, it is not a free trade agreement, potentially with environmental, health or social consequences, but a partnership and cooperation agreement designed to deepen the political and economic relationship between the European Union and Kazakhstan. This general discussion is an opportunity for us to refer to Central Asia, a region that is often excluded from our public and yet essential geostrategic debates – this has been recalled on several occasions. Kazakhstan, a gigantic country with coveted resources, is too often hidden by the shadows of the three major spaces around it: Russia, China and the Middle East. As a result of this position and its specific characteristics, Kazakhstan deserves our full attention. This country is indeed one of our main suppliers of hydrocarbons and mining products, including uranium needed for the operation of the French nuclear production system, while in the opposite direction the European Union is Kazakhstan's main trading partner, ahead of Russia and China. As the balance of the bilateral trade balance is negative for France, we have a significant rebalancing capacity. At the diplomatic level, Kazakhstan plays a moderating role and forms part of multilateral forums, in line with European practice. This is probably due to the geographical position and social composition of this country of crossroads and encounter between Russian and Turkish, Orthodox and Muslim civilizations, and of course taken between Russia and China, which clearly favours the spirit of discussion and openness. From this point of view, it is essential that the European Union deepens and densifies its relations with Kazakhstan, so as not to leave the initiative to the Russians and Chinese alone, who are already well established there. To convince yourself of Chinese ambition in the region, it is enough to note that the Chinese President launched publicly from Kazakhstan, in 2013, his great project of new silk roads. Through this so-called "enhanced" partnership and cooperation agreement, the first of its kind with a country in the region, the European Union shows that it continues to view this region of Asia as strategic. We can only congratulate them. I now turn to my second point: neither should we overestimate the weight of this agreement. As our colleague Guy Teissier has shown, through the voice of Jean-Luc Reitzer here, and in his report to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this is an agreement with traditional content and often not very binding, which, however, significantly improves the quality of our exchanges. In terms of trade, it is broadly consistent with the World Trade Organization's guidelines for greater liberalization and trade equity, of which Kazakhstan has been a member since 2015. It also provides a better regulatory framework for economic operators in many areas, including the establishment and operation of trading companies and services, capital movements, raw materials, energy and intellectual property rights. Jean-Luc Reitzer noted some progress, perhaps even more important for our businesses and products, such as the principle of legal protection of geographical indications and procedural obligations to ensure transparency and fairness in public procurement. Another notable fact is that the agreement takes into account environmental and labour issues. For example, Title IV, which deals with "cooperation in the field of economic and sustainable development", includes two chapters on environment and climate change, and a chapter on social policy. As these issues are at the heart of our citizens' concerns, it is essential that they have been well integrated into the agreement, especially since much of Kazakhstan's economy is based on hydrocarbons; We also welcome this. It remains a subject, the main and most problematic one, which has come back in recent debates, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the European Parliament: of course it is human rights, which all the speakers have addressed. I will not go back to the issues of concentration of power, the judicial system or corruption. Nor will I mention the positive developments that have been highlighted by previous speakers. I will only say that our conviction is that the strengthening of international relations and economic exchanges between the European Union and Kazakhstan must allow for a favourable evolution of governance, in order to aim, in the medium term, at the standards of Western democracies. Because it considers this agreement to be in the right direction, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of this bill, like the Members of the European Parliament, who have just ratified the agreement by a large majority. We only call for close monitoring of its implementation in order to assess its impact not only economically and commercially, but also politically, environmentally and socially. This follow-up will make it possible to review the European Union's strategy for Central Asia on a sound basis, as planned in 2019. As the centre of gravity of world affairs moves to Asia, the European Union must indeed strengthen its active presence in that part of the world. We'll be there to encourage him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u119	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u120	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the alternate rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Kazakhstan and, from a broader perspective, Central Asia often appear, and for the vast majority of our fellow citizens, as distant and unknown spaces. This region of the world, which is briefly studied in our school curricula, is of little interest to the media. However, to take a closer look, this geographical area is astonished by the diversity of situations it presents. Located at the crossroads of the Russian, Turkish and Asian worlds, this mosaic of territory represents a real bridge between the East and the West. It was once a must on the famous Silk Road; During his travels, Marco Polo did not fail to borrow this compulsory passage to Asia, which he then designated as the "Greater Turkey". In this regional subset, Kazakhstan is particularly distinguished by its good economic health and sustained growth since its independence. The country now accounts for 70 per cent of the region's GDP and is an economic locomotive for the whole of Central Asia. Yet the road was rough and the challenges were great. Of all the Central Asian republics, Kazakhstan appeared to be the least linguistically and ethnically unified. From this particular history arose a complex and sometimes somewhat ambiguous operating system: a European model transplanted by Russia based on a traditional Turkish-Muslim base. Today, the Kazakh economy, supported by the export of hydrocarbons and raw materials, is performing well, and many foreign investors are turning their attention to this territory. Astana was a witness to this success, this summer hosted the 2017 international exhibition under the theme of energy for the future and actions for global sustainability. This was an opportunity for this unknown country to attract the spotlight and send a strong signal to potential investors. The present agreement therefore comes at a time when many regional powers affirm or reaffirm their interest in the country and more generally for the sub-set of Central Asia, the ground of a real battle of influence. On these virgin lands, dear to Brezhnev, there is a relative decline of Russian power, long regarded as the undisputed leader of the entire geographical area. In particular, Russia has set up a number of cooperation arrangements, such as the Collective Security Treaty Organisation or the Eurasian Economic Union, which, in the long run, was designed to create a common market. This loss of Russian speed contrasts with the Chinese push in the region, as in a number of regions of the world, illustrated in particular by the One Belt One Road project, which aims to revive the myth of the silk road and foresees the development of many infrastructure projects. The European Union, through this enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, is, therefore, rightly trying to establish a place between these two actors by pursuing an active policy towards the States of Central Asia. Europe's economic interests in the area are certain, and the European Union is still Kazakhstan's leading economic partner, contributing almost one third of its external trade and 50% of direct investment on its soil. This place deserves to be defended. The IDU, Agir and Independent Group therefore welcomes this agreement, which deserves to be read in the light of the European Strategy for Central Asia launched in 2007. The enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement to be ratified by this draft law, signed between the European Union and Kazakhstan on 21 December 2015, is the first of its kind with a Central Asian State and raises relations between the European Union and that region to another level. The updating of this 20-year-old partnership was more necessary than ever in view of the economic, political and social changes that have taken place between the two entities over the past 20 years. As the dynamics of enlargement of the whole of Europe have brought us geographically closer to Central Asia, we should lay the foundations for a new partnership, less focused on assistance. This agreement therefore provides the necessary legal basis for strengthening the political, economic and judicial dialogues between the two parties to the Treaty. Regulatory harmonisation in certain sectors, through assistance from the European Union, will strengthen bilateral economic relations, while allowing Kazakhstan to take advantage of its central position in the Euro-Asian region as a whole. The mechanisms for customs cooperation or capital flows will also call for a sustainable improvement of the business climate in a country where the public sector remains dominant. It is also noteworthy that the bilateral agreement takes into account the imperatives of sustainable development and intends to support the country in the necessary diversification of its economy. France also has national interests to assert. Like Areva, EDF, Saint-Gobain or Airbus, many three-coloured companies are developing activities in Kazakhstan. Thanks to the better protection of economic operators provided for in this agreement, our companies will be able to develop their activities with the appropriate serenity, within a suitable legislative framework, while reaffirming our country's commitment to the principles of international trade and the WTO. The promise of economic cooperation should not, however, prevent us from paying close attention to the state of human rights and fundamental freedoms in that country or to the important efforts that it must make in that area. Since economic promises were conditional on respect for certain basic principles, the treaty should be seen as an opportunity to encourage a process of transition towards a more democratic and respectful system of international law. For example, as the impact study points out, the country is not a party to the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court. The European Union must be firm, inflexible and assert its role as a normative power, protecting international law, public freedoms and individual freedoms. As Kazakhstan and Central Asia share common issues with the European Union, this draft law rightly aims to strengthen cooperation in security matters. This regional subset is another front in our fight against Islamist terrorism. Appropriate collaborative mechanisms need to be put in place to effectively respond to acute threats in Kazakh territory that we are likely to suffer from negative externalities. Moreover, due to the vastness of its territory, the porosity of its borders and its relatively well-developed transport infrastructure, Kazakhstan is both a hub of international drug trafficking and an illegal immigration zone. We therefore welcome the objective set out in this law to strengthen the necessary cooperation in the field of security and justice in this field. In many respects, therefore, Central Asia no longer appears as a peripheral space of globalization but rather as a strategic area, increasingly coveted, raising economic, energy and security issues that affect the entire Euro-Asian space. The IAU Group therefore supports this agreement, which paves the way for a common and coherent approach by the Member States of the European Union to Kazakhstan and also to the other countries of Central Asia, and which reflects the deep and justified interest that France and the European Union attach to the stabilisation, democratic and economic development and prosperity of this region.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u121	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u122	[[Smile]] Madam Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Chair of the Commission, I would not like to steal the star from Jean-Luc Reitzer, who holds the post; I would also not like to oppose Bruno Fuchs, who has shown that this is not the CETA. I would say, however, that today we are looking at a Kazakh "mini-CETA". You will allow me this ease of language, which I use for several reasons. First, it allows me to reaffirm my opposition to CETA, which we will have the opportunity to discuss again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u123	The CETA, signed by the previous government!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u124	Then, like other texts in similar legislative curricula, this agreement is already being implemented; Europe decides first, the partnership is in place, and it is only a few years later that national parliaments can express themselves and make their decision. Like many Members, I wonder about this procedure, which is curious in a sovereign democracy. Finally, we asked ourselves, in committee, what would happen if Parliament opposed this agreement – this situation has never occurred to date. I believe that the agreement would fall at European level; In any event, it would be important to address this issue. This literary facility also allows me, Madam Chair of the Commission, to thank you for using the phrase "that's happy" in your first speech. It is indeed very pleased that our committee is meeting this Monday to discuss matters which may not be of major importance but concern one of the tax havens, the second of the right to health for certain foreign nationals, and this one of the economic agreements. It is important – it is a very nice thing, and I thank you for this novelty – that we can discuss it in substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u125	I'm the one to thank!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u126	In fact, Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Jean-Paul Lecoq insisted on the need to debate my report on maritime piracy in order to make a difference. It also allows us to discuss substantive political issues. To return to the text under discussion, our role, as a national Parliament, is to calculate the benefit of this agreement for France while examining what is not in line with the values of our Republic. Most previous speakers recalled the geopolitical benefit. Kazakhstan is an extremely large country, which, if superimposed on China, allows it to exceed its circumference, except Manchuria. This country has also become strategically essential; I am sure that it has a reserved room for international negotiations, so much it welcomes – the latest one was on Syria. It is a country that is also important for France: The Echo recently felt that it was the paradise of raw materials; Indeed, it is our first supplier of uranium.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u127	Ah! I mean, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u128	It's our second largest supplier of oil. France is Kazakhstan's fourth European partner. This country is therefore essential for our economy; We must not forget this, and most speakers have also stressed it. But – as previous speakers have also noted – there are things going on in this country that are contrary to our values. Police violence, according to NGOs, is common, as are other human rights abuses, especially torture, which are practiced almost systematically. The power of expression of the opposition press is limited, and even more so in recent times. There's no Internet at all, it's obvious. Let us be clear: this country does not respect human rights. Where we are somewhat embarrassed by the surrounding areas, it is that François Mitterrand, after the country's independence, was the first head of state to visit Kazakhstan.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u129	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u130	Nicolas Sarkozy also went to Kazakhstan, but his relationship with the leader of this country was more – I'm going to make "new world" – rock and roll.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u131	The president of Kazakhstan, too, is rock and roll!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u132	More recently, François Hollande went there as well...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u133	[[Laughs]] We remember that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u134	There, it wasn't rock and roll, it was fashion...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u135	He was offered a nice hat!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u136	In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to the recent survey of Europe 1, which has found the chapka; She's at the Branly wharf museum, and everyone can go see her if they want. We therefore have relations at the highest level with Kazakhstan, which is also part of the United Nations – the United Nations – and UNESCO, while other countries, known as "democratic", have withdrawn from the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u137	In January, Kazakhstan will preside over the Security Council!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u138	In 2010, he chaired the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. All this is difficult; We're embarrassed at the corners. I believe that such an agreement should be an opportunity to denounce all these problems in a virulent, powerful manner, and that is the role of the Government. Secretary of State, next to Macro-Moroccan multilateralism, you mentioned Kazakhstan's "multi-vectorial" policy; But it is essential to speak frankly about this regime, which is likely to improve. The president has had such longevity that, now, he is probably at the end of his career; I don't believe in miracles, but it seems possible to get some progress. I will conclude by saying that it is difficult to talk about Kazakhstan without mentioning doping, either in the Astana team or among the weightlifters, some of whom have recently been withdrawn from their Olympic medals. As a former chairman, under a previous legislature, of the Ethics and Doping Studies Group in Sport, I call on you to use this moment to influence the course of things: let us dop our universalistic and humanistic values, and let us try to push this country towards more democracy! There's a little hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u140	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u141	Madam Chairman of the Committee, thank you for not objecting to my request for a discussion on this report, as on the previous one. I would be sad to hear what I have heard if I were not used to the double standards that govern the European Union at all times. The Union invites us, without further discussion, to ratify this enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with Kazakhstan; the same Union shall vote sanctions against Venezuela. I can understand the cynicism and realism which, for the sake of my country, causes us to turn a blind eye to unacceptable things. We've seen everything in history. But I wouldn't accept that, and neither would my friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u142	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u143	That the president of the friendship group feels obliged to say kind things is his role, and we thank him for that; But let it come to pretend that democracy in Kazakhstan has progressed and that we can trace French values there, that we are no longer talking about the same world! [[Smile]] Noursultan Nazarbayev is nothing but an abominable tyrant! Former President of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union, Socialist Prime Minister – if I may say so – he self-proclaimed President of the Republic of Kazakhstan as soon as the Soviet Union exploded. This is the source of Nazarbayev's legitimacy. And then what? Did he make democratic progress? That is true, because the second-last time he had been elected 90% of the vote, and the last time he was elected 95% of the vote: we see that agreement is growing... as the opposition disappears. This time, he had only three opponents, appointed by him, all the others being banned. We therefore sign an agreement with Kazakhstan which, in article 235, recalls the commitment of the parties to human rights. In this country, Amnesty International reports – it has been recalled at the moment – that, in the face of an oil workers strike, the solution was to shoot in the pile, leaving on the tile I don't know how many dead. Last year, 163 cases of systematic torture, as Mr Hutin has just pointed out, were reported in that country, but he has probably made progress in terms of democracy since then. In that country, 17 offences could be punished by the death penalty. These are the people with whom, it seems, we share values! We do not share anything except perhaps interests. But let's not tell the French Parliament that we share anything else with such characters! As for freedom, it was said earlier that the Internet has disappeared. But it's better: if by chance you have access to it, you have to install a national security certificate on your station. When, then, was the last progress of democracy in Kazakhstan made? Last January! Less than a year ago, the country decided that every Internet post would be controlled by a national certificate. That's Article 235. No, I don't share anything with this country, and I'm sure most of you would say like me if they had full freedom of expression. We do not share any of the methods used by this kind of character. Secondly, Articles 240 and 243 state that cooperation in the fight against money-laundering and corruption will be strengthened. Ah! But who do we sign this agreement with? With a country that has, with ours, a history of corruption and retrocommissions. Since 2012, judicial proceedings have been under way against that country. French justice investigates, seizing facts of "laundering in organized tape", "corruption of foreign public officials" and "arrangement and concealment". This case is still not closed but, by its detours, it ended up calling into question the President of the Belgian Senate. Belgium is a country of the European Union and the Belgians probably agree with us that all this is not in line with the idea of law. Kazakhstan is ranked 131st out of 176 in terms of corruption and rape of all international laws. That's what we're talking about. I will not vote for this agreement. Perhaps this will be of no use, perhaps we will be a minority, but we will not have done so, at least for the sake of honor. I hasten to say that I do not blame anyone here for missing them; I'm just giving my point of view. At this hour, I am on the side of those who are imprisoned and tortured because of Noursultan Nazarbayev, those to whom these pellets are glued to watch what they say and what they do. No, it is not acceptable: there is no partnership or enhanced cooperation possible under such conditions! Let us be clear: no matter what, the Kazakhs will sign contracts with us because we are their first uranium customer, because they have an interest in getting along with us, because we are a great power of the old continent! I can hear it, but this must not be done at the cost of an amnesty for such a tyrant, for such abominable crimes. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] No, ladies and gentlemen, there are no major signs of democratic progress in this country, on the contrary! No, this country does not intend to further respect democratic values! No, he doesn't practice French values! That is why my friends and I will not vote for this agreement. And I am convinced that others will follow us, in a gesture which they may measure the pointless, but which remains the only one that we can do in solidarity with the victims of such a regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u144	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u145	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u146	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the alternate rapporteur, since the renewal of our Assembly last June, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has begun an important task in order to catch up with the backlog in authorising the ratification of treaties and conventions. Indeed, for various reasons, which I will not return to, many of these ratifications have never received Parliament's approval. Today, we are considering eight texts, after allowing four more to be ratified last October. This work will continue in the coming months. Some of the conventions we examined were legally based on established practices between France and another country, when others provided a definitive solution to disputes. In the future, we will also be dealing with trade agreements with Canada or South America, on which we will all be particularly vigilant. The agreement we are now examining, signed between the European Union and Kazakhstan in December 2015, is not part of this normative logic. This is a front door – yes, Mr Mélenchon, you will see, I will bring you elements to show it. It is a new stone for the future of a common relationship still under construction, the thickening of an already existing trait of union, but which needs to be strengthened. Like other partnership and cooperation agreements, it focuses on the establishment of broad principles that will serve as milestones for our future relations, relating to the sharing of the values of democracy, human rights, the market economy and sustainable development. Of course, this agreement will not be binding; As some of you have pointed out, it could have been more ambitious. But it increases the level of the 1999 requirement, which was signed for a period of ten years and then renewed by tacit agreement. As my colleague Pierre Cabaré, chairman of the France-Kazakhstan Parliamentary Friendship Group, explained, whom I welcome, Mr Jean-Yves Le Drian considers this agreement to be a major step forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the concerns that you have expressed, particularly during the examination of the text in committee, but also in this House, that Kazakhstan is not a democratic country and that serious human rights issues are being raised – Mr Mélenchon has also said so, with the vigour that characterizes it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u147	With his energy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u148	We do not, of course, deny that this young republic, born at the beginning of the 1990s with the fall of the Soviet Union, still remains an important road to go in these areas. It shares this with other countries with which we have signed similar agreements. I myself raised a number of issues during the examination of the text in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I consider sensitive. We will stop there for a moment, so that you can see that, from the same point of view, we can draw different conclusions. Thus, the issue of migrant workers remains unresolved, as Kazakhstan, which has a large number of migrant workers from neighbouring countries, has not ratified the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. Internet monitoring, which you mentioned, is a real issue, on which progress will be needed in the future. Freedom of assembly is very severely regulated, since the organisation of a public meeting without prior authorization is punishable by seventy-five days in prison, no less – you imagine? Even the use of social media, which is spreading in Kazakhstan as elsewhere, to invite a meeting is a criminal offence. Imagine us all, activist in our constituencies using social media, with the same pain at the key! Several bloggers, Facebook users and journalists have thus been heavily condemned. Detention centres, prisons, are often places of ill-treatment, torture and rape, and complaints often do not give rise to sanctions against perpetrators. The Amnesty International website, however, reports rare complaints, evidence and convictions. Finally, it has been said that the death penalty is still enshrined in the Criminal Code, although, it should be recalled, the death sentences have been commuted, since the moratorium decided in 2003 by the President of the Republic, to life imprisonment. The death penalty was therefore retained in the Criminal Code but not applied. However, I repeat, this agreement is in the right direction. As far as gender equality is concerned, which I am concerned and which I am defending as part of a fact-finding mission to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Chapter XVI of Title IV, entitled 'Cooperation on employment, labour relations, social policy and equal opportunities', encourages cooperation and the exchange of good practices, with the objective of strengthening gender equality, by promoting women's participation in social and economic life, and by ensuring equality between women and men in employment, education, training, the economy, society and decision-making. France has, of course, a duty of vigilance, which is also valid for our transnational companies. In this connection, I would like to point out that a law passed by France during the last parliamentary term, led by our colleague Dominique Potier, requires companies to be vigilant about the respect of human and environmental rights throughout their value chain. This obligation seems to me to be particularly applicable in this country, and I would like us to remain vigilant in this regard. To say it in a more trivial way, if you'll allow me to say it: crap! Chiche, for our companies working with this country, to exercise their duty of vigilance in the field of human rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u149	[[Smile]] Pretty bakchich!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u150	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, I would like to stress that this agreement is an act that is part of the greatness of France's foreign policy: we are talking to everyone. This is currently the case in the Middle East, where the President of the Republic plays an important mediator role in resolving the various crises, whether Lebanon or the safeguard of the Iranian nuclear agreement. We obviously do not share the same political choices or about human rights, to which I have just recalled my attachment, but France does not neglect anyone: it exchanges, convinces, it believes that some of its values have a universalistic ambition and deserve to engage in a permanent and constructive dialogue. I deeply share this vision. The fight for human rights cannot be won by ignoring, turning back and ostracizing. Lack of dialogue is never a solution. That is why partnership and cooperation agreements are important to our diplomacy; We must, while being vigilant, accompany this movement. Moreover, as the rapporteur pointed out from the time of his hearing in committee, as well as my colleague Pierre Cabaré and some other speakers, the progress made since January 2017 towards a new division of power between the Presidency, the government and Parliament is a first step that we cannot neglect. The agreement also contains an economic component. As such, it should be stressed that this is an agreement where everyone wins. Indeed, it will strengthen the movement of rapprochement that has begun for several years between Europe and this country. The European Union has recently become Kazakhstan's largest trading partner and the largest foreign investor in Kazakhstan, accounting for more than half of Kazakhstan's foreign direct investment. Russia, of course, remains the country's main foreign policy partner, as demonstrated by the holding in its capital, Astana, of negotiations between Russia, Turkey and Iran on the Syrian conflict. This is due, as has been pointed out, to historical, economic and cultural reasons, with about a quarter of Kazakhstan's population of Russian origin. China is a second particularly important partner, which has also been mentioned. However, the authorities in Astana have a sincere desire to open up to Europe. The country participates actively in meetings of international organizations. Astana is thus a promoter of disarmament and non-proliferation. Its leaders renounced the nuclear arsenal inherited from the Soviet Union and acceded to the Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1994. In the Ukrainian crisis, Kazakhstan supports the Normandy format. For France, which has a relative influence in the region, this agreement is important. Kazakhstan is a country with which we have a trade deficit; This agreement is a first step towards restoring a more favourable balance. Finally, this country is a gateway to the region, far from the enclave that some may speak of. A Kazakh proverb says: "The horse and the dombra melody are the two wings of Kazakh. » For all the reasons I have just mentioned – openness, economic development and improvement of human rights – I invite you to authorize the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u151	The general discussion is closed. On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u152	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u153	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u154	I'm on the side of the political prisoners. I was part of the flotilla in Gaza to confront the Israeli army and demand that the city no longer be blockaded. I also went to support the Saharawi political prisoners imprisoned in Morocco, who committed only one crime: demanding the implementation of United Nations resolutions, including the organisation of a referendum. Ten days ago, I was in Turkey to support Members who were tried and sentenced to an aggravated life sentence – that is, with a visitation permit every two months – for daring to make a speech against President Erdogan; the ambassador told me that journalists and university professors, including a francophone university in Istanbul that signed a convention with France, were being tried, imprisoned and tortured. This happens all over the world. What I remember from my time in Turkey is what the activists of the Democratic People's Party told me: they ask us not to let them down, not to create sanctions, not to isolate Turkey, because it would be they who would pay the heaviest bill. They want diplomacy to do its job, so that the situation changes in a democratic way. This agreement lays down strong conditions for human rights and democracy; We dared to write things out forcefully. Either it will remain a text – literature, words – or it will become an element of commercial constraint. That is how I read it: as a binding element, in the interest of the Kazakh people. That is the meaning of the GDR Group's vote, and that is why I wanted to explain more precisely. We dare to say, and we must say, that in these dictatorships there are violations of human rights, freedom of expression and democracy, as well as torture, but let us not isolate these countries! By the voice of all – those of the president of the friendship group, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Government, and all those who will meet with the authorities of Kazakhstan – let us demand the application of what is written in this treaty. This is the best guarantee that we can offer to the prisoners and to all the victims of this dictatorship. That is why we will vote for the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u155	The next speaker is Mr Laurent Furst, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u156	Madam Chair, I will make two observations. First of all, the debate that we have had in this Chamber honours our democracy, because we are constantly drawn between, on the one hand, a pragmatism that wants us to talk, to trade, to trade with others, and to defend our interests as well – indeed, there is nothing illegitimous to defend the interests of France, which allow us to ensure more prosperity and to make our fellow citizens live better – and, on the other hand, the universal defence of human rights, which is dear to our hearts, to all and to all. There is no hierarchy in this area. So we're still a little drawn between these two elements. For decades, in this Assembly, we, like our predecessors, have had the same kind of debate and difficulty. Some might believe that by closing the door, by not reaching out to the two thirds of the nations of this planet, who are not fortunate enough to know our democratic life, our world would be better; I don't believe it. On the contrary, I believe, even if nothing should be forgotten, that it is by exchanging, discussing, agreeing, trading with all the peoples of the world that democracy is progressing and being built, step by step. I am among those who believe that this type of agreement has a usefulness and allows, beyond certain ills and pains, to advance collectively. That is why the Republicans will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u157	Mr Bruno Fuchs, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u158	We have all expressed, with different sensibilities and words, our doubts about democracy in the regime in Kazakhstan. Of course, we share some of the analyses and comments of Jean-Luc Mélenchon. But once this has been established, what decision should be taken? The situation in other countries shows that isolation allows a head of state to maintain his regime and to continue practices that we all reprove. By studying the history of peoples and relations between peoples, it seems obvious that we need to develop exchanges, deepen relations, maintain pressure and send Europeans more frequently to this country. Indeed, we have every reason to believe that this type of agreement, multiplying relations and exchanges, will allow – or should allow, because we have no certainty in this matter – to force the current President to change his governance. That is why we will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u159	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I pleaded to convince, not to overwhelm. I imagine that many of you will not follow my conclusion; However, I will not cease for a moment to believe that they share my views on the substance and the attachment to freedom and human rights. In return, I ask that I not be assigned a position that is not mine. I did not say that, when we face a tyrant, it means that wherever the regime does not suit us, we must no longer discuss it; I don't think so. But there are tyrants and tyrants – yes, there are differences, there are countries where things are going differently! In this case, we are dealing with someone who does not leave a metre of space and breath to his opponents, and there is no one to defend them. No one! For my part, I opposed the regime of Mr Putin, who had put my comrade Sergei Oudaltsov in prison. When he came out, he thanked those who had spoken of him, thus opening him a little space and allowing him not to be forgotten at the bottom of his cell. As far as Kazakhstan is concerned, I can't even tell you the name of an opponent with whom I could get along, because we can't even hear the voices coming out of the dungeons anymore! That's where we're at. We referred earlier to the trial in Turkey. My comrades Jean-Christophe Sellin and Corinne Morel Darleux, who were at this trial, were not seized of any such request as my comrade Lecoq heard. When they ask, "Don't let us down! This means: "Don't let the slab fall on us! » For the rest, yes, there are people against whom sanctions must be imposed. You know that because you have approved sanctions against a regime whose elections are not discussed by any international body – I am talking about Venezuela. As for Kazakhstan, no election can be regarded as free since the end of the Soviet Union; It is the OSCE – the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe – that says it, and know that this organization does not only understand French-style regimes! That's the situation! Therefore, it is not true that you will push for dialogue. I know that's what you want to do; I give you notice, I'm ready to recognize it. But you are wrong: you will give him the means to say, "There is no problem; the proof, we have signed with the Europeans! You saw it! » Indeed, and that will be my last word, this is not a usual bilateral convention, negotiated by France with Kazakhstan, as a result of which we would be bound, since we would have discussed and concluded. We are talking about a European protocol, which has not been negotiated by us and which will lead to in-depth cooperation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it would be good if our group were not alone in voting against it, which would give the impression that you are all in favour. We need to see what you feel in the votes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u161	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u162	The next speaker is Mr Philippe Gomès, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u163	No one in this assembly has a monopoly on the high heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u164	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u165	No one's pretending to do that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u166	No one can set himself up as a monopoly holder in an assembly of insensitive people who would only seek to defend economic interests and wipe their feet on a people. We hear from each other the voices that rise from the dungeons and prisons, under torture; we hear the voices of journalists, unable to carry out their work except at the risk of their lives; We hear the voices of workers, whose most basic rights are violated. We hear all these voices, and it is because we hear these voices that we sign this enhanced cooperation agreement. It is because these voices have risen that we decide to break the isolation in which this State has gradually locked itself up, in disregard of international rules, to the detriment of individual freedoms and public freedoms. Yes, it is necessary to reach out; Yes, it is necessary to break the iron curtain that has risen around this state, so that tomorrow, perhaps, democracy has the right to a city and people are respected! The IAU Group will therefore vote for this enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with Kazakhstan.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u167	The next speaker is Mr Pierre Cabaré, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u168	In this assembly, some believe that there is a tyrant and tyrant. For me, there's only one kind of tyrant, always the same. Mr Mélenchon, you have to be a little serious. I understand that your friendship is going to some...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u169	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u170	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, You have to be realistic. I would like to be trusted and trust the people of Kazakhstan. This country is moving towards peace...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u171	It's shameful, what you're saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u172	But yes, he's going to peace! We're not making peace with bombs! You know that? This afternoon, Ambassador Macron of Kazakhstan asked our President, Mr Macron, to look to the future, adding that his country was looking to the future. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we look to the future, that we trust and that together we vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u173	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u174	The next item is the discussion, following the initiation of the accelerated procedure, of the draft law authorizing the approval of the protocol annexed to the general convention between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on social security of 1 October 1980 relating to the programmed health care provided in France to Algerian citizens who are insured in society and are not insured in society residing in Algeria (No. 13, 414).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u175	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u176	Madam President, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, here we are gathered on this new healthcare protocol between France and Algeria. I wanted to pay tribute to the work carried out by the committee: a first debate in July, followed by a second in November, if my memory is good, with numerous hearings, allowing to shed full light on the national representation and to twist the neck to a number of rumours or fake news, as they say in good French. It was important to ensure that the actual content of this protocol was presented. This new framework fulfils two objectives: on the one hand, it preserves the privileged relations between France and Algeria in the field of social security; On the other hand, it modernises them by establishing a system of really close consultation between the Algerian State and French hospitals, in order to avoid the accumulation of claims and contentious situations, as was the case in the past. It is therefore a new beginning that is fully in line with the momentum that has been set in recent weeks with the visit to Algiers by the President of the Republic on 6 December and the holding of the high-level intergovernmental committee on 7 December in Paris. Let's go back to history, to the situation that has prevailed so far. Relations between France and Algeria were based on a bilateral Social Security Convention and a health care protocol, both concluded in 1980. This protocol has been used little since the middle of the year two thousand – about seventy people involved in 2014 – and has proved inadequate due to its very limited scope. Therefore, alongside this agreement, the Caisse nationale des assurances sociales des travailleurs salariés, the Algerian CNAS, has developed contractual relations with French hospitals for the transfer of Algerian patients residing in Algeria – about 700 patients per year. These de facto relationships were gradually replaced by the 1980 Protocol. Poorly supervised and unsecured, they have created many complications and generated large debts to French hospitals. That is why France conditioned the renegotiation of the protocol on the discharge of CNAS's debts towards French hospitals. A compromise was reached between the AP-HP – Public Assistance-Hospitals of Paris – and the CNAS, in March 2016, allowing the total clearance of justified claims. What is the framework for this new protocol? It provides all Algerian nationals covered by the Algerian Social Security with access to French care for therapeutic acts which cannot be carried out in Algeria, while securing the reimbursement of the care by the Algerian fund. It therefore introduces a single channel for the programmed care of Algerian social insurance workers in France transferred by the CNAS. It provides a good framework for the system because neither French hospitals nor CNAS have an interest in abuse. How does this work on a practical level? CNAS will issue a treatment authorization to the patient, based on a pre-established estimate by a French health institution, for a specific type and duration of care. This authorization will condition the patient's admission to the French hospital. The care will then be paid to the health institution by the Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie française des travailleurs salariés, the CNAMTS, on behalf of the Algerian CNAS, which will reimburse it all the costs incurred – moderator ticket, daily fee and medical allowances remaining at the expense of the patients, according to French legislation. These regulations will be made on a semi-annual basis, so that all this goes back very regularly. Important point: an advance will be paid each year by the Algerian side, on the basis of 35 per cent of the amount of the outstanding claims for the previous financial year. What is the scope of this protocol and its relevance to France? This is a unique arrangement: apart from the European coordination of social security, France does not have another bilateral convention opening up similar possibilities. This reflects, in a way, our privileged relationship with Algeria. This text will improve the exchange procedures between the administrations of the two countries and make financial flows more reliable. In total, we have here, I believe, a "solid mechanism", in the words of the rapporteur. I think we should welcome the fact that every year a Franco-Algeria social security commission will meet to take stock of its implementation. These are the main elements that I wanted to put on the table so that you would be fully enlightened about the subject of the debate. I once again congratulate the committee, which has been carrying out substantive work since July, so that we can take a calm look at the exact content of this protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u177	Mr Michel Fanget, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u178	Madam Chair, the Secretary of State, the Chair of the Commission, the agreement that I will present to you concerns access to health care. It therefore affects the human, the essential good of health. But it also touches on several themes that are the subject of passionate political debates: first, our relations with Algeria; Then, the balance that we have to find between public health and ethical considerations, and financial considerations, when we welcome in our foreign health system not regularly residing in France; Finally, the question of what is known as medical tourism, i.e. whether or not there is an opportunity to value our health system internationally for profit. It is therefore understandable that this agreement was the subject of numerous questions in committee, which led us to postpone our vote in order to hold further hearings. Some speakers will no doubt address the major themes that I have recalled. As rapporteur, however, I must refocus the debate on the agreement itself, its context and what is expected of it. As far as the context is concerned, we must say a few words about the problems of unpaid payments resulting from the care given in our hospitals to non-resident foreigners, since the agreement aims to improve matters in this field with Algeria. When you look at the numbers, you see several things. First, the stakes must not be exaggerated. In March 2017, the stock of debt to be recovered related to Algerian patients amounted to just under 39 million euros for the whole of France, compared to 90 billion euros of care delivered each year in French hospitals. It is therefore clear that their financial sustainability is not threatened. Secondly, the problem mainly concerns the establishments of the Paris Public Hospital Assistance, in which three quarters of this foreign debt is concentrated. Thirdly, Algeria is certainly the first country involved, but Algerian patients are only responsible for a quarter of this debt. Many other countries, European, North American, Middle Eastern or African, are also involved. Finally, when one observes the evolution of the debt related to patients outside the PA-HP, one makes a very interesting observation. This debt can be divided into two main categories: on the one hand, that owed by institutions, foreign social security funds, private medical insurance, foreign embassies, for example, which have officially sent patients to France; on the other hand, that due to private individuals taken over in France outside these institutional channels. And when we compare, for the AP-HP, the figures at the end of 2014 and the latest available ones, which date back to the end of summer 2017, we see a 43% decrease in the share of the so-called "institutional" foreign debt, but an 18% increase in the share of individuals. In fact, the removal of institutional debt seems relatively easier, as it is primarily a matter of political will – that of the current Director-General of the AP-HP – and of the adoption of new rules vis-à-vis the various caisses in question. For example, a policy of systematic payment of an advance on the cost of scheduled care for foreign patients has been put in place, with only a dozen foreign agencies still exempt from the advance, compared with 600 previously. In addition, vigorous action has been taken to recover the institutional debts of the past. With regard to Algeria, the National Social Insurance Fund, CNAS, paid EUR 10 million in arrears in 2016, which conditioned the signing of the agreement discussed tonight. Other countries have also made regulations, such as Saudi Arabia. For individual patients, off-circuit, things are more complex. We are well aware that foreign patients, whether Algerian or not, enter our hospitals outside of the planned care for which they would have agreed to pay in advance or would benefit from a foreign fund. On this point, those who would be tempted to introduce prohibitions of care would, of course, run into our medical ethics. There are countries where the wallet must be taken out before being admitted to the emergency room, but that is not our conception. If the patients we are talking about arrive at the hospital as a result of a truly unannounced health accident, their costs may eventually be covered by the medical insurance which must accompany the visas. But insurers are careful not to take care of cases where people, if you can say so, find themselves ill once in France. In this case, either the care will be covered by State medical aid, for persons whose three-month tourist visa has expired or for minors, or they will simply remain in charge of hospitals. Is this situation satisfactory? No, of course not! We have to fight the drifts, the chains that may exist. But we must know that there will always be, for obvious humanitarian reasons, because it is the spirit of our public hospital service, cases of people treated for serious and very costly pathologies without their costs being finally paid, either by them or by a foreign fund. This preamble leads me to a central observation: it is in our interest to include as many foreign patients as possible in the institutional circuits, even if we will never manage to do so for all. I support the agreement that we are examining because it has precisely this object in relation to Algerian patients. Until now, the reception of Algerian patients in France, even within the framework of scheduled care covered in principle by the Algerian Social Security, has not been satisfactorily organised. There was a bilateral agreement dating back to 1980, but the text had become largely inoperative since it concerned only a few dozen people a year. Moreover, the Algerian CNAS had entered into direct agreements with the AP-HP and other CHU – university hospital centres – but the application of these agreements has, over time, led to numerous financial disputes, relating to the calculation of the fees charged as well as to their subsequent settlement. The agreement signed in 2016, after no less than fifteen years of difficult negotiations, aims to prevent these disputes from happening again. Its first merit is to provide for a wide range of potential beneficiaries. It covers not only Algerian social insurance persons, but also their beneficiaries and so-called "uninsured" persons. This is an extension compared to previous agreements and is significant because the informal sector, which escapes social security membership, is highly developed in Algeria. The aim is of course to reduce the number of people coming from outside the official circuit. Second strong point of the agreement, it draws on the old disputes between the Algerian CNAS and the French hospitals to try to settle all the difficult issues in advance. It includes, for example, specific provisions on the issue of extended hospitalizations beyond scheduled time, with an urgent procedure to have them approved by the CNAS, as there have been many financial disputes in the past. It even deals with very expensive molecules and medical devices that cannot be taken into account in the day price. It also provides that the Algerian side will bear all the costs, without equivalent of the moderator ticket, in order to simplify the invoicing. Thirdly, the agreement establishes clear and solid financial channels which will guarantee not only the payment of the costs to our hospitals but also the payment as a last resort by the Algerian caisse. The financial interface between hospitals and the Algerian caisse will be managed by our Social Security, more specifically by the National Centre for Care Abroad, because this body already manages the financial flows due to the European coordination of Social Security and therefore knows perfectly how to operate this type of financial management rigorously. In addition, in order to limit or avoid cash lags, the Algerian CNAS will have to make advances for each financial year equal to 35 % of the amount of the outstanding claims for the previous financial year. Administrative management costs are also covered. In conclusion, this agreement will not prevent, of course, all financial disputes with Algeria, a fortiori with all other foreign countries, concerning the care of their nationals in our hospital system. But it is in the right direction, and I think it could serve as a model for similar arrangements with other countries. I would also like to point out that, beyond the human situation which makes us necessarily welcome foreign patients, there is also an economic interest in developing this reception reasonably. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has therefore adopted this bill and I invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u179	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u180	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this draft convention was the subject of a first exchange of views in our committee last July. At the end of our work, we considered that it was necessary to go further to the substance of the subject matter. That is why I wanted our committee to set up a working group dedicated to the issue of the hospital debt of third countries. Our rapporteur, Michel Fanget, whose work I welcome, chaired this group, including Mireille Clapot, Bérengère Poletti and Jacques Maire, whom I would like to thank for their involvement. Under the leadership of the rapporteur, various personalities were interviewed, including Martin Hirsch, Director-General of Public Assistance-Hospitals of Paris, Jean de Kervasdoué, former director of hospitals at the Ministry of Health, as well as the heads of the Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie and the Morbihan primary fund, in charge of the management of the Centre national des soins abroad. Let them all be thanked for this; Their expertise and expertise have provided useful insights into our work. The hearings carried out did enable us to move forward on the merits, first of all on the state of play. It is important to point out that unpaid payments in our hospital system do not only concern Algerian patients, far from it. At the Paris Public Hospital Assistance, the main hospital unit concerned, Algerian patients account for only 25% of foreign unpaid patients. Behind Algeria there are, in descending order, Morocco, the United States, Tunisia, Italy, the United Kingdom and Kuwait. We see that it is always very interesting to establish a precise state of affairs in order to form a well-founded opinion. It is clearly easier to control foreign unpaid payments when the debtor is an institution, such as a social security fund or an embassy. In this case, it is sufficient to demonstrate political will and to complete the procedures in order to obtain the payment of hospital fees. This is what the AP-HP does, by the way, with good results. On the other hand, as Michel Fanget has just said, when the debtor is a simple individual, it is much more complicated. Indeed, the possibilities of recovering hospital fees from individuals returned to their countries, most often modest or even very poor, are obviously much weaker. This is very important, because the agreement we are looking at is intended to include as many Algerians as possible in France in an institutional management circuit to limit the number of unpaid people. Finally, it is important to make it clear that this agreement with Algeria is seen by health professionals, by those who have to deal with this type of situation on the ground, as very positive. It is an agreement that takes into account the experience of past relations with Algerian social security, and the problems are finally anticipated. It also provides for a financial interface between our hospitals and Algeria, which will be provided by the National Centre for Care Abroad, attached to our health insurance. This agreement will not solve everything, but it is really moving in the right direction. It also has a strong human dimension, which is important to us because it is a question of health. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the remarkable work carried out by our rapporteur, I propose that you ratify this protocol so that it can enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u181	Mrs Isabelle Rauch spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u182	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Chairman of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by stressing the unique and historic nature of the protocol annexed to the Convention between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Algerian Republic on Social Security. This protocol on the programmed health care provided in France to Algerian citizens who are insured in society and to those who are not insured in society residing in Algeria is submitted to our Assembly at first reading after an in-depth examination by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is unique because, apart from the European Coordination of Social Security, France does not have a bilateral agreement with a third State providing for the possibility of scheduled care. It is obvious that this reflects the special relationship between France and Algeria, a privileged bilateral relationship that the first official visit of the President of the Republic, on 6 December last in Algiers, on friendly ground, revealed again. This protocol is historic because it follows long and painful work undertaken for better coordination between the social security institutions of our two countries. It was made possible by resolving contentious situations. Indeed, as the report by our colleague Michel Fanget details very well, apart from a first protocol on the care received by Algerian citizens in France, signed in 1980 and very little used – by only forty to sixty patients a year – the treatment of Algerian patients was mainly carried out under bilateral agreements between the Caisse nationale des assurances sociales des travailleurs salariés, CNAS, and hospitals. For example, every year 500 to 700 Algerian patients were referred directly to French hospitals by CNAS, generating an estimated financial flow of between 8 million and 15 million. After numerous debt disputes by the CNAS, several French institutions denounced these bilateral agreements, while the AP-HP continued along this path, while regretting difficulties in the collection of debts, the amount of which peaked in 2012 at 16 million euros, before returning to 11 million in 2015 and then to less than 4 million in 2017, due to several payments from the Algerian side. This protocol, which does not deal with debts arising from the past but, as my colleagues will develop after me, future relations, has been very long to negotiate because it relates to the balance of existing debts. Its negotiation began in 2002. It was interrupted from 2010 to 2014 due to the litigation on hospital debts and could not finally be resumed, and then ended, only after the Algerian side had paid several settlements to pay the arrears of the past. This Protocol was signed by Manuel Valls, then Prime Minister, at the third session of the High-level Intergovernmental Committee on 10 April 2016, among many other institutional and economic agreements. The purpose of this protocol, which is historical in its process and unique in its content, is therefore to establish a unified and reliable administrative framework for the organization and management of the care provided in France to Algerians, in so far as such care cannot be provided to them in Algeria. Its signature reflects a shared will between the French and Algerian authorities to resolve the disputed situations, in order to be able to intensify cooperation in many other areas. It is in perfect harmony with the desire expressed by the President of the Republic during his recent visit to Algiers to look to the future. An in-depth understanding of the issues it sets and the model it sets for the future has enabled our committee to adopt it. Together with the colleagues in my group who will speak after me to complete my remarks, we will propose that you do the same. If, in the assembly, some, ill-inspired, whom I fought during the election campaign in Moselle's ninth constituency, still doubt, if I have not managed to convince them of the reason for the bill and the merits of it, then I would refer you all to the site of a great evening daily, where an article dated December 14, 2017 will decode the "inox" on "Algerian patients treated at the expense of the Secu" and restore the meaning of this agreement,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u183	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u184	... agreement that we do not examine in catini but that we will vote in full consciousness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u186	Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u187	Madam President, Madam Chairman of the Committee, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, a few days after the President of the Republic has moved to Algeria, we are indeed meeting now to ratify the protocol annexed to the Convention with Algeria on Social Security relating to scheduled health care provided in France to Algerian citizens who are insured social and needy non-insured persons residing in Algeria. The links between our two countries, as we all know, are old and close, made up both of intense moments of communion and of tragedies which are still difficult to overcome on either side of the Mediterranean. Our rapporteur, whom I congratulate on the quality of his work, has described very well the technical elements of the protocol. So I won't come back on it. It is perfectly clear, when reading his report and the exchanges which took place in committee, that the treatment of Algerian patients had to be reviewed and that the agreements which had been binding on our two countries since the 1980s were no longer satisfactory, as they created administrative and financial difficulties. It should be recalled once again that the sea snake of unrecovered debts of the French health care system is far from affecting only Algerian patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u189	I would also like to point out that, while the examination of this protocol raised many questions last July, during its first examination in committee, on the same day, two conventions with Algeria – one on mutual legal assistance and the other on exchanges of young workers – were adopted without any difficulty. I would also like to thank the rapporteur once again for the substantive work he has done since last July, which confirms the usefulness of this protocol. Of particular interest are the report. If they confirm that Algeria is by far the country that accumulates the most debts with the AP-HP – about 25%, that has been said – there are also, it should be stressed, countries like the United States,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u191	...Italy, the United Kingdom or even Spain. Frankly, we have the right to be surprised by the debts owed to the AP-HP by the embassies in Paris in Kuwait or Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u192	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u193	Perhaps the rapporteur will have some explanations to give us about this... I would also like to remind our colleagues of the considerable weight of doctors in our health care system with a foreign European or non-European diploma. It must be said, without them, some of our hospital facilities could no longer work or accommodate patients. France has nearly 26,000 graduates, of whom 4,800 are in Algeria, an increase of more than 56% in ten years, which, of course, penalises the Algerian health care system above all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u194	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u195	In view of the multiplicity of issues, I think, Madam Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we could look at the question of what could be called "medical nomadism" in a globalised world. A number of French people are not left behind and unfortunately the Internet is full of cheaper dental care proposals, for example in Hungary. I hope that, in the coming years, our colleague rapporteur will be able to give us an update on the implementation of this protocol, which we are about to vote on and which the Republican Group will vote on, taking into account the remarks made this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u196	What a day!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u197	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u198	Madam President, the chairman of the committee, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to congratulate my colleague Michel Fanget on his report, which shows both his medical fibre and his social fibre. Of course, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support this ratification bill. As has been recalled, we had begun to study the protocol annexed to this convention and we could have speeded up the vote, but our committee preferred to extend its reflection in order to better understand this bill, its context, not to verify the need for it, which seemed obvious to us, but to remove certain questions that had arisen on our benches. Among the questions raised during our debates in committee, the main one was due to insufficient figures. The rapporteur, Michel Fanget, has provided some of them which should help to dispel a number of fantasies – I recall in particular the comparison between the tens of millions of euros we are talking about and the 94 billion euros represented by the activity of the hospital system in France. That being said, why do we need to ratify this convention? Several obvious reasons for this: three practical reasons; three deeper reasons. With regard to practical reasons, the system of foreign unpaid payments must first be better understood. As the chairman of the committee pointed out, the work we have done has made it possible to be more effective and to have more precise figures. Secondly, an extremely old dispute, dating back to the 1980s, had to be settled. It must be acknowledged that the resorption of the debt is on track: not only has the PA-HP's debt decreased by 43% in three years, but the protocol will allow for greater control since it will include a much larger number of Algerian citizens. So we are not going to add problems to those that already exist. It was also necessary to respond to an emergency situation created by the obsolescence of the original text and the consequent legal vacuum. The convention which entered into force in 1982 seemed promising but its scope of action quickly showed the limits of the text, which gradually found itself competing with a galaxy of bilateral agreements between the Algerian CNAS and French hospitals. Too limited, not effective enough protective, neglected, the convention has led to legal insecurity and allowed debt to settle and grow. Thirty-five years later, we wish to restore meaning to this agreement which the past governments have allowed to die and which the previous government has soberly pushed back to a legislature in which it will no longer have its hand. It is also necessary to take over from hospitals. PA-HP and other institutions must not deal alone with unpaid payments. On the contrary, national representation must assume its responsibilities and provide a sound and supportive environment for debt resolution and more coherent flow management. I come to the three deeper reasons. First of all – I am very proud that the rapporteur Michel Fanget has reminded us of this, because this is the spirit of our hospital system – whatever some say on these benches, we have a vocation to universality, we have a recognized and admired medical system, whose management of care, accessible to all, is unique. Extending the number of Algerian citizens who are beneficiaries is not only more effective in recovery, but above all, it is in keeping with our principle that care must be accessible to all. Where some medical systems need help, French know-how can intervene. It also shows the strength of our social protection system, which can open up and cooperate with others. This is a real example, despite the difficulties that the previous Convention has caused. It is also our capacity to take charge of the project, particularly in the creation of the system of authorisation and prior financial assessment. Seriousness and accountability are also at work on the other side of the Mediterranean, since the CNAS itself is committed to providing certificates of rights to comparative care, the issue of which will be the result of a joint dialogue between the CNAS and the French institution concerned. Our colleague has just clarified all the areas, up to the molecule, which will be incorporated into these conventions. It is also an opportunity to recall the solidarity that unites our two countries. This diplomatic dispute no longer has its place, after so many years. France and Algeria are eager to work hand in hand through this unique and even historical mechanism. In particular, it was this desire that gave rise to the high-level intergovernmental committee, which itself contributed to the signing of the protocol. As parliamentarians, it is essential that we honour the commitments made by France, which are in line with the spirit of a field of application which is now almost universal. Finally, one final reason lies in the need to engage in dialogue with other States. This type of agreement, singular in its existence, must precisely be the occasion to question us about the foreign debt in terms of care provided in France. The Algerian Republic is concerned about one third of the total debt, but we must also look at the rest of this debt – Morocco's share is 9%, the United States' share is 5%, and the rest is distributed among many states. This agreement will allow us to go further because it is in fact only a step in international law and a point in the settlement of our debts. Ethical responsibility and commitment drive our will to vote in favour of the ratification of this protocol, even if it was the victim of simplistic, distorted speeches, haunted by false rumours whose philosophy is not to really look at the numerical stakes it represents and its real usefulness. We will talk about fraud, about profitors, when it is actually a matter of programmed care but also a procedure associated with the consolidation of our finances, now and especially for the future. Those are all reasons, ladies and gentlemen, which determine our group to vote without hesitation for the ratification of this protocol. This ratification must not only be voted on, but it must enter into positive law quickly, as there is no longer a question of letting the debt run. Yes to the consolidation of our finances and the resolution of debts! Yes to an open and more accessible social system, recognized and more efficient! Yes to the legal certainty provided by the elected members of the nation to the institutions! Yes, access to care for all! Yes at the end of a worn-out diplomatic dispute! Yes to the Franco-Algerian friendship! Yes to the ratification!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u199	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-18-O1102.u200	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of an agreement between France and Algeria on social security; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law ratifying the Ordinance of 27 April 2017 on the adaptation of the legislative provisions relating to the functioning of health professions' orders; Discussion, in further reading, of the bill ratifying the Ordinance of 19 January 2017 on the profession of medical physicist and the Ordinance of 19 January 2017 on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of health. The meeting is adjourned.
