ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u1	Pursuant to articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution, I declare open the special session convened by decree of the President of the Republic on 7 September 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u2	I received a letter from Jacques Bompard, Member of Parliament for the fourth constituency of the Vaucluse, informing me that he was resigning his term as a Member of Parliament as of August 21, 2017. Act was taken from his resignation in the Official Journal of 25 August 2017. By a communication of the same day, made pursuant to articles L. 141-1, L. 151 and L. 176 of the Electoral Code, the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, informed me that Mr. Jacques Bompard was replaced until the renewal of the National Assembly by Mrs. Marie-France Lorho, elected at the same time as him for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u3	The next item is the debate, after the expedited procedure has begun, on the bill adopted by the Senate to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism (No. 104, 164, 161).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u4	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u5	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, the chairman of the Committee on National Defence and Armed Forces, the rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Defence, ladies and gentlemen, it is with some seriousness that I turn to you this afternoon to introduce the draft law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism. Even though Daesh has receded on the ground, even though this terrorist organisation has lost its ability to prepare targeted attacks against European countries and first of all against ours from the territories and resources it controlled in Iraq and Syria, the threat remains nonetheless high. Of course, the situation is different from that prevailing during the attacks on Charlie Hebdo, the Hyper Cacher, the Bataclan, the Stade de France and the cafes and terraces of the 10th and 11th arrondissements. The attacks were then sponsored, premeditated, prepared, organized and directly controlled by Daesh, through transnational networks. They led to mass massacres in Paris, which horrified all of us – 147 people lost their lives, hundreds of others were wounded. Today, Daesh has seen its territory reduced; a number of its executives are leaving the last cities still occupied in Iraq and Syria. The threat is no longer of the same nature, but it is still horrifying. At the time, even if the Merah affair should have been an alert, the attacks in Paris plunged us into astonishment. We suddenly discovered that we had become a target of terrorism and that the risk was everywhere. It was therefore necessary to act quickly, to launch searches, to assign to the home. Because we didn't know the danger, we had to take strong action. Hence the decision to decree, the very night of the attacks, the implementation of the state of emergency. In exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures had to be taken to respond. The state of emergency, your assembly has extended it several times and again, at the request of the Government, at the beginning of this legislature, for a sixth time, until 1 November next. But, at the same time, because "the state of emergency is by nature limited in space and time" – to use the formula of the Council of State – we announced that we would propose, in order to put an end to it, a law that would translate into our common law a number of measures designed to strengthen the protection of the French against terrorism. On 1 November, it will be twenty-three and a half months since the state of emergency came into force. Until then, its longest duration – eighteen months – had been from the time of General de Gaulle, a time when the situation was just as exceptional. If we were to maintain the state of emergency today and tomorrow events of exceptional gravity were to take place, what measures should we take? Go to the state of siege? It is because we are no longer in the same state of unpreparedness as at the time of the Bataclan, because the threat is no longer the same, because the numbers of our security services have been increased – for example, those of the DGSI, the Directorate-General for Internal Security, have increased from 3301 in 2014 to 4460 at the end of 2017 – because our investigative capabilities and our knowledge of the threat have improved, that we want to leave a state of emergency by nature deprived of a number of freedoms. Of course, we could not simply return to the situation before the state of emergency, even though, after the various attacks suffered by France, many measures were taken in the space of two years. Thus, the bill that I am presenting to you today aims to ensure the fullness of our individual and collective freedoms, but also proposes that all measures be taken to ensure the safety of the French. This text is a response adapted to the current state of the threat. Indeed, Daesh, even on the defensive, kept a propaganda capacity on the internet and the organization, alas! increased his grip on a number of minds, instilled his ideology in certain places of worship. We therefore need to adapt to a threat that has largely changed its nature. Yesterday it was very strongly exogenous; Today, the risk is endogenous, with people now born on our territory and having grown up on our soil – in France as in other European countries, moreover – who decide to act and commit actions just as deadly as in the past, the recent news shows us, alas! We saw him in Manchester, we saw him in London, we saw him in Barcelona, we saw him in our country. It was of course Nice and his eighty-six dead, including ten children and adolescents. Before Nice, it was Magnanville, with the attack that cost the life of a policeman and his companion, an administrative assistant to the police, murdered in front of his three-year-old son. It was the murder of the business manager of Saint-Quentin-Fallavier. It was Father Hamel's in Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray. It was Xavier Jourlé's on the Champs Elysées. The list of attacks that have failed or that our services have foiled is even longer: since the beginning of the year, out of twenty fomented attacks, four have ended, four have failed and twelve have been thwarted – eleven by our services, one by the artisan of Villejuif. If an indefinite extension of the state of emergency is excluded, we must also not disarm the threat I have just described. This is proposed in the text that we will consider in the coming days; It seems to me to correspond to the challenges we face. Don't take measures to protect our major sporting and cultural events: who can really defend this choice? To prohibit the possibility of closing a place of worship considered as a home of radicalisation, likely to lead people to act: who can really propose it? Depriving oneself of the opportunity to watch an individual whose everything suggests that he is about to act: who can really want to? Remove any option for our services to visit a home when the information suggests that it could be a TATP manufacturing site: who could say "I assume it"? The Government proposes a balanced text, which aims to protect but also takes care to guarantee and sometimes even strengthen all our freedoms, a text which, adapting our common law, provides a lasting response to a threat that has become lasting. Before going into a brief presentation of the main measures in the text, because I want to see no misunderstanding, I would like to make it clear once again that the provisions that we are proposing are aimed only at terrorism and are not taken, as in the state of emergency, on grounds of public order. For, as I said a moment ago, not only does this bill not reduce our freedoms, but it aims to preserve them. Article 1 is, from this point of view, perfectly emblematic. It allows the prefect to establish protection zones to allow the organization of events which, because of their nature and the extent of their attendance, could be exposed to the risk of terrorist acts. Who sees that the constitution of these perimeters of protection is the very condition for continuing to organize major events? Without these protection zones, next winter, the Christmas market in Strasbourg could not take place, nor could my successor organize the Fête des Lumières in Lyon, and the same applies to all the great festive events taking place in our territory. Although this is absolutely essential, we wanted to supervise it very strictly. The text thus provides that the private, professional and personal life of residents will be taken into account, that persons who do not wish to undergo the excavations may leave the event if they so wish, that the palpations will be carried out under the supervision of police officers or gendarmes. These areas of protection will therefore, for our citizens, be a means of continuing to live as in the past, thus preserving our lifestyles and freedoms: freedom to entertain, freedom to cultivate, freedom to go to sporting events. For it is our way of life that terrorists intend to attack: more music, more images; It is a long intellectual and cultural desert that they would like to impose everywhere. We have to resist. Section 2 of this bill authorizes, under certain conditions, the administrative closure of places of worship. We cannot deprive ourselves of such a provision because, in the process of radicalisation, the weapon of words, which can be used to incite the commission of terrorist acts, is very often decisive. It is therefore crucial to allow the closure of places where such ideas, such theories, are disseminated. Because religious freedom is for us, in the spirit of the 1905 law, a fundamental freedom, we have made this provision a very precautionary use: even in the state of emergency, only seventeen places of worship have been closed, nine of which remain so to this day. Here too, the new measure will be perfectly framed. Of course, those in charge of places of worship will be able to request an end to the measure by summons before the administrative courts. And we give ourselves six months to re-establish cultural associations, respecting the laws of the Republic in the practice of their worship. The Senate did not wish that the notions of dissemination of ideas and theories could be used to justify a closure decision. At the proposal of the Government, your Law Commission considered that the re-establishment of these criteria was indispensable. Indeed, there may be places of worship – some of you may know – where, in appearance, the discourse is very smooth, so that they do not fall within the definition of provocation to violence or the commission of acts of terrorism, but where there is still reference to ideas and theories that can trigger a process of radicalization in people. Similarly, managers are no longer at risk of disseminating writings falling under the law; practices are now much more insidious and provocation to violence or the commission of terrorist acts, more indirect. The new wording will therefore make it possible to prevent radicalisation more effectively while guaranteeing perfectly the freedom of all Muslims in France to exercise their religion. The third flagship measure of the project is the creation, by decision of the Minister of the Interior, of an individual monitoring regime. This is not, contrary to what some have said, the transcription in the ordinary law of the measures of house arrest of the state of emergency. Of course, the Senate had provided that it would only be mandatory to report to the police or gendarmerie three times a week. We have re-established the need to point out once a day because it has appeared to us that the Senate measure could cause us to lose sight of an individual who is likely to act. But, again, our services make this device a precautionary use. Only 39 people are currently subject to such a measure. In the text that we propose to you, individuals are exclusively concerned with "the conduct of which constitutes a threat of a particular gravity to public security and order and which is habitually connected with persons or organizations inciting or participating in terrorist acts, or with support[n]t or adheres to the theses inciting or apologies for the commission of terrorist acts". You will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that this state is far from characterizing the majority of the French. With regard to Article 3, I would like to point out that the Law Committee has also framed the provision. Thus, very restrictive measures, such as the requirement to point at the police station once a day, can only be taken for a period of three months, renewable once, the following renewals being conditional on the existence of new and complementary elements. The so-called "lightened" surveillance measures, such as the need to report travel outside a perimeter, and the so-called "complementary" surveillance measures, such as the obligation to declare its electronic identifiers, will be valid for six months, renewable once on the basis of new and complementary elements. Above all, monitoring will not, in total, exceed one year. Again, therefore, a proper balance has been found; I welcome the Chair of the Law Committee and the rapporteur, as well as all the law commissioners, who have been able to do so. The fourth emblematic point in the text concerns the regime of home visits and seizures. Comparing it to the state of emergency, the system corresponds to the administrative searches carried out to prevent disturbances to public order. These were very useful in the early stages of the implementation of the state of emergency: during its first phase, the 3,432 searches carried out resulted in the seizure of 578 weapons, including 42 weapons of war. Since the July extension, because our follow-up is more accurate, the pace of the searches has fallen sharply: there have been only thirty-six, or one every three days. On the other hand, their effectiveness has increased as most have resulted in the opening of judicial proceedings. It is therefore inconceivable to deprive oneself of such a tool. However, we all know that a visit to an individual's home, with the possibility of holding him for four hours, is a procedure that must be supervised. That is why this measure will again be extremely targeted. Only the homes of persons who pose a particular threat to public order and security and who are suspected of maintaining links with the terrorist movement may be visited. Moreover, this measure will be subject to a threefold review by the judge: that of the territorially competent prosecutor and that of the Paris prosecutor, who will be informed in advance of any visit, the second who, if he considers that the conditions are met, can immediately judiciate the intelligence; but also, it is a new provision, that of the judge of freedoms and detention of the court of great instance of Paris, which will have to "authorize the visit of a place as well as the seizure", then "control the exploitation" of the seized material. I would also like to highlight two points in this text. First of all, it improves our administrative investigation systems on persons carrying out sensitive functions. In concrete terms, it is now possible to investigate – that is, to consult intelligence files – when an individual is recruited, assigned or empowered to perform a sensitive function, such as integration into our internal or external security forces. On the other hand, the means of action are much more limited when there is a change in an individual's behaviour during the performance of his or her duties. The provisions of article 4 sexies tend to remedy this situation by allowing an administrative investigation to be carried out when an individual's behaviour raises doubts about his or her ability to fulfil his or her duties. With regard to public officials holding functions in connection with the sovereignty of the State, we propose that, if the results of the investigation confirm an incompatibility between the conduct and the performance of the tasks, a suspension – or even, in the most serious cases, after the implementation of an adversarial procedure, a removal of the officers – becomes possible. Again, this is a measure of common sense. How can we understand that a police officer, a gendarmerie or a public authority holder may remain in office when an administrative investigation reveals evidence of radicalisation? The second point, which has sometimes been misinterpreted and which has led the public debate, concerns controls in border areas. This provision already exists: in the law in force, it is now possible, for the prevention or the search for offences related to cross-border crime, to ask a person to present his or her identity documents and documents in an area including a band of twenty kilometres around our borders as well as in places open to international traffic – ports, stations, airports. Nevertheless, in parallel with the state of emergency, the need to strengthen controls at our borders has emerged. That is why we re-established controls at the internal borders of the Schengen area on 13 November 2015. This, for example, has allowed us, since 2014, in these areas, to multiply by four the number of identifications of persons in the police files, which has helped feed many ongoing investigations and consolidate our intelligence. The re-establishment of controls at internal borders, however, constitutes a derogation from the principle of free movement in the Schengen area. We must therefore give ourselves the means to put an end to it, except at the same time as the state of emergency, at least in the near future. This implies, as the European Commission recommends, strengthening our identity control system in border areas. That is what we do with Article 10. Firstly, we propose to increase the maximum period during which checks can be carried out from six to twelve hours. The security forces will then be given the opportunity to carry out checks in the vicinity of international stations. Finally, this article opens the possibility of carrying out such checks within a radius of twenty kilometres around certain ports and airports hosting international traffic, designated by decree because of the importance of their attendance and their vulnerability. These controls will not be systematic. We are therefore far from the massive generalisation of the controls that I have sometimes heard of. On the contrary, these provisions are in line with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and that of the Constitutional Council. I therefore welcome the fact that the Law Committee has left the original wording unchanged. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the introduction, our will is to reconcile the fight against terrorism with the absolute preservation of the freedoms that form the basis of our democracy. It is an important text, which answers this fundamental question: how can a great democracy like France protect itself without abandoning the values that underpin it? How can we save lives, avoid wounded people, without giving up part of ourselves? The answer to this question is the guiding principle of this text. This must allow, I think, to bring us all together. That is how we will show those who want to destroy us, to make us back, that France will continue to be the place for major democratic debates, but that, when the fundamental interest of the nation is at stake, it also knows how to come together. In doing so, we will be in the wake of the great figures of the Republic and this assembly. Jean Jaurès, in his speech to youth in 1903, said: "Instituting the Republic means proclaiming that millions of men will know how to reconcile freedom and the law, movement and order." Well, these are the demands that we once again intend to reconcile: freedom and the law; movement and order. Jaurès wanted the Republic to get back in motion. This is our whole aspiration: to give hope; tell all generations, especially those who come to the younger generations, that the Republic will never give in to the emergence of this new totalitarianism of terrorism, that it will always be there to protect our freedoms but also to promote a society in which everyone can have the same chance to succeed, regardless of their social condition, origin and political, philosophical or religious opinions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LC and NG groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to your individual responsibility and to our collective responsibility. Against an ideology that carries in it a new totalitarianism, can we together ensure that the Republic lives and that France lives!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u6	Mr Raphaël Gauvain, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u7	Mr President, Minister of State, Minister to the Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, our country remains a prime target of terrorism. The Minister of State has just recalled that no fewer than twelve plans for attacks have been foiled since the beginning of the year. Terrorist organizations, including Al-Qaeda, retain, despite their weakening on the ground, significant projection capabilities on national territory. Above all, we have been confronted for two years with a so-called "endogenous" threat, which is the result of individuals preparing for attacks in France, inspired by jihadist propaganda on social networks. The hammer attack at Notre-Dame de Paris and the discovery of an explosive manufacturing laboratory in Villejuif are the perfect illustration. On the other hand, the terrible attacks on Barcelona this summer remind us with vigour that our top priority must be the fight against terrorism. But then, what to do? Should we stay under the regime of a state of emergency? The state of emergency was declared on 13 November 2015, in the evening of the attacks on the Bataclan, the Parisian terraces and the stadium of France. Exceptional legislation resulting from the Algerian war, the state of emergency allows the implementation of measures which are very different from ordinary law. The administrative authorities have the possibility to take exceptional measures, including the divestiture of judicial authority from some of its prerogatives. The Minister may assign to residence persons representing a threat, while the Prefect may decide to search the home by day or by night. While, initially, the use of measures permitted by the state of emergency has been massive and particularly useful, it should be noted that the administration, in particular in recent months, has made much more sparing and targeted use of these measures, in particular administrative searches and house arrest. Two figures are worth mentioning in this regard: 39 persons are currently under house arrest; Since last January, 189 administrative searches have been ordered, out of a total of 4,500 for the past two years. Above all – this has been confirmed to us, during the hearings, by the intelligence services and by the Paris prosecutor – we have recently seen an increased use of judicial means in the fight against terrorism. As a result, even though the terrorist threat has not diminished – on the contrary, it is persistent and lasting – the administration is now using less of the instruments offered by the state of emergency regime. We must take this development into account and adapt our legislative arsenal. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of emergency is by nature temporary. It is by its essence exceptional. Durable threats must be addressed, within the framework of the rule of law, by permanent counter-terrorism instruments. It is therefore necessary to leave the state of emergency, adapting the measures it provides for and enclosing them with safeguards, without losing their operational usefulness. This is the purpose of this bill. Its four main measures – four tools inspired by the state of emergency and now available to our security services – are the perimeters of protection, the administrative closure of places of worship, individual measures and home visits. They will undoubtedly occupy most of our debates this week. Without going into the details of the measures – they have just been presented by the Minister of State – I would like to say that the numerous hearings that I have conducted since July, in the presence of some of you, have convinced me of the operational need for our security services to continue to have these tools to combat terrorism effectively. I am referring here to these situations, those shadow zones, in which there is no suspicion of criminal offences yet, but a serious threat to public order and security. I am thinking of these situations in which, very concretely, our services have information from a single reliable source or information provided by a foreign service, which cannot be disclosed to a judicial judge. It is then a question of being able to protect our compatriots effectively. However, protecting the French effectively also means preserving their individual freedoms and not sinking into safe escalation and overbidding. Contrary to what has been stated peremptoryly by some, we do not perpetuate the state of emergency in the common law, we do not proceed with a copy-paste. As I said, this project is based on four and only four of the measures allowed by the state of emergency. Moreover, the legal regimes are different, profoundly different. In addition, there are numerous guarantees, including – as the Minister of State has indicated – the mention of the sole purpose of combating terrorism, the presence of the judicial judge or the end of the house arrest. I would add that this bill is all the less the simple transposition of the state of emergency into ordinary law that it contains other provisions necessary for the prevention of terrorism. The text before you, which comes from the work of the Law Commission, proposes a new balance with the initial text of the Government and the text voted by the Senate, a new balance between the requirement to protect public order and the preservation of individual freedoms. It thus enhances the operational effectiveness of the measures and, at the same time, offers better guarantees to our citizens,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u8	That's questionable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u9	... in particular by limiting individual measures in time, guaranteeing the rights of the person chosen during a home visit or strengthening the experimental nature of individual measures and home visits until 2020. The question remains of the establishment of parliamentary scrutiny. We debated it in committee and new amendments were tabled today. I hope that in the course of the discussions we will be able to find a balance together. I hope that the discussion that is taking place will ease the concerns that may have arisen in the public debate on some of the provisions. As we all know, the rule of law is by its very nature fragile, and it is above all the business of men and women who make it live. This summer, like most of you, I met with the representatives of the State in my department: the Prefect of Saône-et-Loire, the Sub-prefect of Chalon-sur-Saône, the Director of the Prefect's Office, the Secretary General of the Prefecture, the Departmental Director of Public Security, the Head of the Department of Territorial Intelligence. I met with these women and men who were on the ground responsible for preventing radicalization and combating terrorism. I have met deeply Republican women and men, concerned about the mission entrusted to them, lucid about the risk and threat of terrorism, and at the same time aware of the need to preserve our national unity and to avoid, in the fight against terrorism, any stigmatization or escalation of humiliation, which would throw in the arms of extremes part of the population. The defence of the rule of law is everyone's business. No one, no one has any prerogative in this regard. Let us spare in the debates unnecessary divisions and caricatures in this matter: right against left, laxists against security, police against magistrates, prefects against magistrates or magistrates against lawyers. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LC group]] Like generations of parliamentarians before us, we must strike a balance, a delicate balance between the imperative of protecting public order and the preservation of individual freedoms. This is our mission for the forthcoming debate, with a single focus: to protect the French effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u10	I call Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u11	Mr President, Minister of State, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I speak, I would like to pay tribute to the women and men, whether they are military, police or gendarmes, who, on a daily basis and often at the risk of their lives, ensure our safety in France and in external operations. We owe them so much. Today, the terrorist threat remains serious in France, as the attacks on national territory and abroad have painfully demonstrated in recent months. It was in this context that the Government introduced, in June 2017, a bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism. This text is necessary because we need to get out of the state of emergency. It is courageous because we could simply extend this regime indefinitely, suggesting that it is the only bulwark against Islamist terrorism. It is responsible because it will allow us to strike the right balance between our public freedoms and security requirements. As time is short, I will not go back in detail to the articles before the Defence Committee for its opinion, that is to say, Articles 5 to 7 and 8 to 9 – we will discuss them during the discussion. I shall say a few words about the intelligence techniques involved. I will not present here what the text foresees; I want to say, on the other hand, what he is not. Contrary to some arguments, it does not demonstrate a desire for widespread surveillance. It will not allow the services to listen more than before. It will allow them to monitor as much but within a renewed legal framework, in accordance with the rights and freedoms guaranteed by our Constitution. It will be more protective of public freedoms, privacy and the secrecy of correspondence. It will be surrounded by unprecedented guarantees in the field of public radio, which is perfectly legitimate. With regard to the air API-PNR system – advance passenger information and passenger record data – the aim is to transpose a European directive. We are bound to do that. This mechanism has existed experimentally since our last law on military programming and has demonstrated its full effectiveness in preventing or detecting rare forms of crime, such as terrorist acts, trafficking in human beings and arms trafficking. Similarly, the sustainability of a maritime NRP system seems indispensable to me, as the threat does not stop at the docks of our ports and the maritime sector with vulnerabilities that need to be addressed. I recall here the importance of the flows in question: 32.5 million passengers per year for France. I would now like to place our debate in a more general context. Some strongly oppose the prevention tools that I have briefly mentioned. It is, of course, their strictest right, but here I want to be clear: no responsible policy or operational will ever claim that such devices will certainly prevent all plans for attacks, but no responsible policy or operational will give up using them. These tools are certainly not infallible, not sufficient as such, but they are indispensable because they give the services that work for the safety of our citizens the most complete range of levers of action possible. Some of you, ladies and gentlemen, will support amendments to delete these articles or to empty them from their substance, but without proposing an alternative. Let us not lose sight of a fact: the level of threat remains very high and it will remain so for several more years! Should we then act as if we were living a normal, soothing period? No, personally, I don't think so. Of course, in an ideal world, such devices should not exist, but in an ideal world, fanatical and blind violence should not exist either. Now she's here, there she is. It is our responsibility to recognize it and to make every effort, with due respect for our democratic values, to prevent and suppress the effects of this violence when necessary. In these areas, I believe that we should all, regardless of our political affiliations, show a great deal of humility and responsibility. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on some benches of the LC and NG groups]] It also goes, and I shall end with that, by realizing that the fight against Islamist terrorism is not just a matter of national security arrangements. The existence of failed states, violent, oppressive regimes, inequality and extreme poverty partly explain radicalization. These realities go beyond our strictly national competence, but we must keep them in mind. The causes of radicalization are multiple. They must be precisely determined, analysed and explained, in the scientific sense of the term. Explaining not being excused, let alone subscribing. Explaining how to understand, and understand how to prevent and fight, to protect who we are, our country and our values.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u12	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u13	Mr President, Minister of State, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since 2012, our country has been targeted by terrorist attacks inspired by radical Islamism. Every time, this blind violence struck us with fear. This context weighs on our choices, on our exchanges. It imposes a duty of unity on the national community: in committee, in your presence, Minister of State, Minister, the law commissioners have joined me in welcoming those who have suffered from the attacks on our country and in paying a sustained tribute to the law enforcement forces, who are engaged in a difficult and dangerous profession. It was this situation that led successive governments to take the measures they considered most appropriate to the circumstances. The state of emergency is one of them. Deceased in the hours following the attacks in Paris and Saint-Denis on 14 November 2015, it has been in force for almost two years. Very few questioned the fact that it was decreed; more questionable is its installation in the long term. We're going out of the state of emergency. We have that courage. The state of emergency cannot endure indefinitely. It is not a suitable response for a democracy facing a lasting threat. But let it be said here, in this place and in this rostrum, that the end of the state of emergency does not mean that the French will be less protected. No false trial! On the contrary, the bill before us provides the security forces of our country with useful and lasting means to deal with the terrorist threat, in a balanced legal framework. Thus, in the face of those whose conduct is likely to give rise to a threat of particular gravity to society, the draft law establishes in the common law the possibility of resorting to administrative measures: controls, surveillance, home visits and seizures. This logic of prevention is also the one that governs the definition of the perimeters of protection, whose regulations will make possible the holding of major cultural and sporting events, but also of all the festivities and events to which we are attached and which contribute to the animation of our territories. This logic of prevention will finally allow the prefects to order the closure of places of worship that serve as a ground for radical Islamism. However, the inclusion of these measures in ordinary law is accompanied by guarantees. First, the administrative measures provided for in the bill could only be taken to prevent the commission of terrorist acts: it was the major difference with the state of emergency, which made them possible in the event of a serious threat to public order. Next, home visits and seizures will be subject to the authorization of a judicial judge, who guarantees individual freedoms, and executed under his control. In addition, individual administrative control and supervision measures, under the control of the administrative judge, will be limited in time and the rights of the persons subject to them, considerably strengthened. These last guarantees were introduced during the consideration of the bill by the Law Commission. From this point of view, I would also like to emphasize the value of the measure introduced by the Senate, namely, to define a meeting clause, which we have reduced from 2021 to 2020. In conclusion, I welcome the conditions under which the bill was debated in our committee. I thank our rapporteur, Raphaël Gauvain, who has done a demanding job, and the implementing rapporteur, Eric Ciotti. I would also like to thank you, Minister of State, for the constructive dialogue that we have had with you. I am convinced of the balance we have found, halfway between those who accuse us of leaving France defenceless in the face of terrorism and those who denounce the decline of freedoms. The bill aims to protect the integrity and security of the French, while ensuring the protection of their individual and fundamental freedoms. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LC group]] Whatever our respective positions, I welcome the spirit of responsibility that has animated us during the thirteen hours of debate that this text gave rise to in committee. Our discussions have been up to the challenges. I have no doubt that this will be the same in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u14	The Chairman of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u15	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Minister, the rapporteur, the draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has decided to take up part of the text which we are discussing: the provisions on air and maritime PNR files and the radio exception. With regard to the air passenger file, this referral is partly due to a kind of right of continuation, since the testing of this file had been authorized under the Military Programming Act 2014-2019. The maritime NRP is primarily concerned with the maritime gendarmerie and indirectly with the armies, as they participate in securing maritime traffic as a whole. As for the Hertzian exception, this is a subject of direct interest to the armies; with the members of the committee that I chair, we wish to follow it closely. The solution proposed following the censorship by the Constitutional Council seems to us to be balanced: it increases the guarantees of public freedoms without placing undue constraints on operational activities. I will not go into detail on these eminently technical subjects, on which our draftsman has carried out serious work, of which I welcome the quality. I would also like to thank our colleagues in the Committee on Laws for having adopted two of its amendments. More broadly, during the examination of these articles in the Defence Committee, a very large majority voted in favour of their adoption. I hope, of course, that such an overstepping of divisions will also occur in the Chamber, as these are essential issues which are very directly related to the safety of all the French. Let us not be mistaken, we are facing an Islamist terrorist threat which, alas, is in place! In the long term. The progress of the coalition's military campaign against Daesh certainly offers hope that it will completely deprive it of its territorial control, but the threat will not disappear, as the death of one of our special forces non-commissioned officers shows. In the face of the magnitude and multiplicity of the forms of this threat, our armed forces have every place in this fight. On an exciting day of presentation of the army last Tuesday in Satory, the members of the Defence Committee were able to meet with gunners returning from Operation Chambal who fought for the takeover of Mosul and infantrymen assigned to Operation Sentinel – they are the same men. And we're back at the moment of the Saint-Dizier base, where we were able to meet the colonel who was heading until recently the projected H5 airbase in the Jordanian desert, from which our Rafale are taking off going to bomb Daesh. Of course, the intervention of the armed forces in the national territory complements that of the internal security forces, under your authority, Minister of State, and with the prefects. Nevertheless, our armies have contributed massively to the security of the French since 2015. The recent, necessary and pragmatic adaptation of Operation Sentinel must therefore not mask the fact that it is in the long term, with the desire to make the best possible use of the expertise and capabilities of the armed forces. Moreover, the recent intervention of the latter to rescue the hard-hit populations of Saint-Martin shows that this contest is not limited to terrorism alone but covers a very broad field – that, ultimately, of national security, of the security of all the French. I therefore believe that we will need to deepen the work already begun between defence and interior on the articulation of responses, on the preparation of crisis scenarios, on the organisation of reserves and more broadly on everything that can contribute, in good intelligence, to the resilience of our society. It is in this spirit of continuity between external and internal security, but also between defence and national security, that we wish to guide the work of the Defence Committee, in coordination, of course, with those of your committee, the Chair of the Committee on Laws – we are already working together in the parliamentary delegation to intelligence. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LC group]] The forthcoming presentation of the strategic review to the President of the Republic and the work on the new military programming law will, I am sure, provide us with further opportunities to deepen these discussions in a constructive and shared manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u16	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject it in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u17	Mr President, Minister of State, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the French chose to elect us to the National Assembly, they asked us to exercise the sovereignty of the nation on their behalf for five years. This delegation is our raison d'être. This is the core of our constitutional mission. It is up to us to assume it in complete freedom, without ever obeying any instruction other than that of our conscience and without any appointment other than that of universal suffrage. We are the deputies of the nation. We are not subordinate here to the statements of the President of the Republic, to the fluctuations of the parties, or to the injunctions of the censors who claim to hold the monopoly of correct thought. Because we are the representatives of the French people, we have as our first duty to safeguard the nation. It is in this spirit that I take the floor, on behalf of the Republicans, forming the first opposition parliamentary group. We present this motion to you against a bill that appears to us today, in essence, to be contrary to the national interest. I say this with a certain seriousness, in conscience: it is a disarmament law, which we cannot approve if we remain faithful to the demand for efficiency that must guide us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u18	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u19	I was elected MP in 2012, a few weeks after the outbreak of a new Islamist terrorism on French soil, with the murders of military personnel and the killing of the Ozar-Hatorah school in Toulouse, committed by Mohammed Merah. The following years have been scanned, alas! by ever more deadly attacks: 239 deaths, children, women, men torn from life; hundreds wounded, maimed forever in their flesh and soul. France has mourned tears of blood, and the tragedy obliges us, not only to the emotion, certainly legitimate and always present, but above all to a duty of action, thoughtful and resolved. For our generation had not experienced the times of great calamities, which were believed to be buried in the past or relegated to distant lands. We lived in the postmodern illusion of perpetual peace. We were still in childhood when the Berlin Wall collapsed. We had grown up thinking we'd live the end of the story. Democracy spread throughout Europe. The market opened up new opportunities. Globalization, we believed, was probably happy. We were there, present in the world, without knowing that we could no longer be there. But history has remembered us. The tragedy had not disappeared. She came up in our lives, with the face of our enemy. A century after Paul Valéry, "we now see that the abyss of history is big enough for everyone"; In turn, on the edge of the precipice, "we feel that a civilization has the same fragility as a life". For an enemy, yes, declared us a total war. This enemy, the highest authorities of the state, have been slow to name him and look at him for what he is: it is armed Islamism, jihadism, which wants to destroy, by means of terror, our democratic societies. The European continent is a target, and France is even more so, because we embody everything that the Islamist enemy wants to destroy: human and citizen rights, the freedom of thought and expression of people, equality between women and men, secularism and, in essence, an art of living, a certain idea of civilization. The French nation is a target, the French Republic is a target, because they are totally and definitively incompatible with the pan-Islamic project that claims to build a global Caliphate. Because we love France, we must not yield anything to those who want to submit us, through terror, to a new slavery. Because we want France to remain France, we must not give in to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the self-proclaimed killer of the caliph of the Islamic pseudo-state. Because we are French and want to remain French, we must not give in to Ayman al-Zawahiri, the leader of the al-Qaeda assassins. We must not yield anything to these individuals who, by thousands, on national soil, in all the territories of France, have lent allegiance to the enemy and collaborate with him. We must not give in to these new barbarians. If we really want France to remain France, we must succeed in the union of all the free French – the French coming from here, the French coming from elsewhere, the French who believe in heaven and those who do not believe in it, all the French federated, in their diversity, through the love of France and our freedoms. But this gathering cannot be limited to kind demonstrations, petitions of principle, compassionate tweets or polite generalities. No people ever won a war with candles. That is why we plead for the nation's rearmament, in all its dimensions. A cultural rearmament, first of all, which affirms the will to preserve the nation and to preserve our art of living, a precious capital which has been left to us and which it is up to us to transmit, being aware of both its strength and its fragility. We believe that there is a French culture. We are proud of this living treasure that we inherited, and we do not have to apologize for wanting to protect it and make it grow. The question of education is, in this respect, central, since it is in the young years that civic consciousness and the capacity to assume patriotic duties begin to form: we must put an end to the ideology of deconstruction, which, far from teaching the love of France, has sown the seeds of distrust, resentment and sometimes self-hate. Cultural rearmament will also require the definition of a policy of nationality, based on a beautiful idea, deeply republican: assimilation, which is not the oblivion of oneself and his own, but the desire to say "we, French", and to live in this way, as members of the national community. To this necessary cultural rearmament, of which it will be necessary for this House to really agree to debate one day, must be added a legal and operational rearmament, including this bill, alas! Minister of State, don't take the road. No people ever won a war by deciding to disarm at the heart of the battle. The President of the Republic and his Government are now proposing a disarmament law. By calling us out of the state of emergency, President Emmanuel Macron weakens France and diminishes the protection of the French. At a time when the jihadist threat is accelerating and increasing, the Government is taking up a bill that is lowering the overall level of national security. Because, in trying to get out of the state of emergency, you propose that we renounce legal instruments that are necessary for the security of the French. None of the six arguments put forward to justify leaving the state of emergency is convincing. I will refute them, one after the other, in order to identify the terms of our disagreement. I begin with the weakest argument, which you have put forward, Mr Minister of State, before the Committee on Laws, that we should leave the state of emergency in order to attract more tourists to France. It's not serious. Do you really think that the question of tourist attraction makes it possible to decide the legal debate on the state of emergency? I am pleased to see that the number of foreign tourists, in a state of emergency, has increased by 5% this year and is expected to reach 88 to 89 million in 2017. What the French and the foreigners who come to visit us expect is a high level of protection, regardless of the technical arrangements that ensure security. It is not the state of emergency that diminishes the attractiveness of France, it is the attacks, alas! The real question, then, is whether or not a state of emergency can help prevent attacks. Let me turn to the second argument: we are told that laws other than those of the state of emergency have already given the State structural instruments to combat terrorism. It is true, it is obvious, that we are not leaving anything. The services of the Ministry of the Interior and the Judiciary have a preventive and repressive anti-terrorist arsenal: the Pasqua Act of 1986, the Debré Act of 1996 and the Sarkozy Act of 2006 are the foundations of this. The main counter-terrorism provisions of the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Internal Security Code are derived from these three founding laws, which must be applied. I do not underestimate the technical contribution of recent laws. I honour myself, with President Christian Jacob, Éric Ciotti and our fellow Members of Parliament, the Republicans, for having been able to dialogue and sometimes find points of convergence, with Prime Minister Manuel Valls, whom I greet, with Bernard Cazeneuve, with Jean-Jacques Urvoas. I believe that we were right, particularly in 2015, to prepare together and pass legislation that diversifys intelligence techniques and subjects their use to the vigilant control of an independent authority, the CNCTR, the National Intelligence Technology Control Commission. I would add that, in the course of the legislative debates of the previous legislature, the Republican Group managed to convince the majority of the time of a number of ad hoc advances, in order to better combat the spread of jihadism on the Internet, to remove most of the punishment arrangements of convicted terrorists, to finally create the bases of a prison intelligence service or to improve the regime for the use of weapons by the police. In this connection, I would also point out to Members of the La République group on the move that we did not wait for the arrival, in 2017, of a so-called macronian "new world" to be able to find common ground on all the benches of this assembly, when the general interest commanded it. And today we will have no difficulty approving certain sections of your bill, Minister of State, as they are directly linked to the continuity of technical arrangements that we have voted for in recent years. That is why we obviously agree, as I said, with the technical provisions of Articles 5 to 7, which perpetuate, update and supplement API-PNR data processing systems, relating to air passengers and now maritime passengers. We can also approve the articles in Chapter II, which frame radio intelligence techniques. However, the existence of these tools on a timely basis does not justify in any way depriving your own services of the tools of the state of emergency. Some of us then oppose a third argument, used, in particular, earlier, by the rapporteur, arguing that, as a matter of principle, the state of emergency should not be permanent. But, Mr rapporteur, no one is contesting this statement. By definition, the state of emergency must not last ad vitam æternam; No one here wants it to be eternal, for centuries to come, but that is not the question that we have to decide. It is not a question of whether the state of emergency should be in permanent theory, which it is not and cannot be, but of whether it should be in prolonged practice here and now, in France of 2017. For my part, I am convinced that the situation of "imminent peril", which justifies the state of emergency under the 1955 law, is still, alas! at the moment when we are debating that of our country, given the acceleration and amplification of jihadist attacks in Europe in recent months and weeks. So some people are telling us, the fourth argument put forward in the public debate, that if we were not to leave the state of emergency now, we would leave the rule of law. This is an absolute contradiction, because the state of emergency is obviously not the abdication of the rule of law, but a legal regime which temporarily extends the police powers of the administrative authority, according to a preventive logic, under the full control of the administrative judge and, if necessary, under the eyes of the Constitutional Council, addressed through the priority question of constitutionality. Far from abolishing the rule of law, the state of emergency allows it to be safeguarded: it is a rule of law that allows the State to overcome exceptional circumstances and thus safeguard the nation. The state of emergency in no way threatens the freedoms of citizens, but it restricts those of our enemies. The rule of law must be strong because, if it is weak, it is no longer the State and there is no law. I come to the fifth argument, which is no longer theoretical but practical and even, if I may say so, volumetric. We are told that a state of emergency is no longer useful because it is being applied less today than two years ago. The figures show, I admit, that, as you said earlier, Minister of State, there have been more administrative searches during the first stages of the state of emergency than there are now: 3600 during the first three phases, the report tells us, but only 161 since last December, or less than one per day. The truth of the matter is that we have moved from a logic of kicking in the anthill, in the aftermath of the Bataclan bombing, to a more effective targeting of the use of administrative searches. But does that mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we should be deprived of it? I'm sorry to say that, but those who support this quantitative thesis reason like drums. If only one administrative search, one, avoids an attack, MPs would be irresponsible to deprive the State. Yet it is, and I am very serious about it, what you are about to do when you leave the state of emergency. Should I remind you, moreover, that you are not the first to make this mistake? The previous majority, in the spring of 2016, had eliminated the possibility of using administrative searches during the third phase of the state of emergency, which had led to a debate with the minister of the interior at the time. On 14 July 2016, a few hours before the Nice bombing, the President of the Republic, François Hollande, had unwisely announced that he wanted Parliament to put an end to the state of emergency, before having to change his mind during the night and to ask, after the attack, for its complete extension. Everyone, I say, should think in conscience about this terrible precedent. But you are now putting forward a sixth argument, which is part of the macronian doctrine of "at the same time": we are going to leave the state of emergency, you say in substance, but at the same time we are going to include in the law measures that will allow roughly modo to maintain its effects. Our thirteen hours of debate before the Law Committee have made this argument clear, because the measures that you remove when you leave the state of emergency would be replaced by half-measures, the operational nature of which, despite the legal inventiveness of the services of the Ministry of the Interior, is close to zero. First example: there are currently house arrest, which allows, under the state of emergency, to monitor particularly dangerous individuals, identified by the services, by forcing them to stay at their homes. You want to remove these house arrest orders but, at the same time, you are about to replace them tomorrow with a vague control measure. The individuals in question will be supposed to be monitored, but, at the same time, they will be "in a specific geographical area, which cannot be less than the commune", which means that they will be able to move freely throughout Paris, throughout Lyon, the Minister of State, or throughout Marseilles. There will be a possibility of an electronic bracelet but, at the same time, only if the individual agrees, and without the possibility of systematically geolocating it. What use would it be, if not for words? Second example: there will no longer be administrative searches decided by the prefects, but house visits at the initiative of the prefects and, at the same time, after authorization by a judicial judge. You thus invent a search that is no longer administrative without being completely judicial, while being a bit of it and not really. What will this legal hybrid be for? Nothing. Judicial searches already exist, fortunately, and no one is considering removing them. Administrative searches, on the other hand, will disappear and you will therefore deprive yourself of their indisputable effectiveness in removing a doubt or depriving yourself of harming a dangerous person in absolute emergency. Third example: you remove the protection zones, which allowed the prefects to secure, under the state of emergency, places particularly exposed to a terrorist threat, such as fan zones at the time of Euro 2016, but, at the same time, you will replace them with so-called "protection perimeters", where the police will not have the right to force an individual to open the trunk of his car or to show the contents of his luggage. At the same time, the prefects will no longer be able to take the initiative of identity checks. The fourth example: you create an article that is supposed to allow the closure of places of worship that house the preparation of terrorist acts, but you expressly write that the duration of the closure cannot exceed six months. In other words, Salafist mosques are supposed to be closed, but at the same time they are expected to be reopened automatically after six months. All of this makes absolutely no sense. The truth is that you must choose: you cannot leave the state of emergency and, at the same time, pretend to maintain its effects. This posture, I say, is an imposture that condemns you, alas! inefficiency. Our conviction, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is not reasonable today to deprive France of the level of protection permitted by the state of emergency. We keep in mind the warning of Marshal Foch, formulated in his Principles of War: we do not want France to fall back into what he had designated as "French weakness: inconstancy". We want to convince you to show consistency because the time has not come, in the middle of the battle, to lift the guard; The time has come, not only to extend the state of emergency for an additional year, by setting a rendezvous clause in November 2018, but to strengthen it to better protect the French. That is why the motion that I have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the Members of Parliament, The Republicans, is not only a motion of opposition to the exit of the state of emergency. It is a motion for a proposal for a real state of emergency, legal and operational, until France wins the war against Islamist terrorism. In this spirit, with Éric Ciotti, Olivier Marleix, Constance Le Grip and all the colleagues who have worked particularly on these issues, we propose amendments that constitute a counter-draft bill, in order to rearm France against Islamist terrorism. Our first concern must be to put out of order those individuals who pose a serious threat to national security and who have already been identified by the intelligence services. Today, 18,000 individuals are known to state agencies and registered in the reporting file for the prevention of terrorist radicalization, and more than 12,000 individuals are registered as State security breaches. We know that, among this mass of individuals, there are a great variety of situations. It is essential that systematic targeting be carried out in order to identify the most dangerous and to really put them out of order to harm before any change to act. That is why we plead not only for the maintenance of a real house arrest but also for the creation, during the period of the state of emergency, of an administrative detention regime, which allows preventive detention, at the initiative of the Minister of the Interior and with judicial review. Such a regime exists today, under certain conditions, for individuals whose psychiatric profile poses a danger to themselves and society; A similar detention regime could be created tomorrow for individuals representing a terrorist threat. This same preventive logic must lead us to rule out those who pose a threat, not only jobs directly responsible for security, as you seem to want to do, but also professions in relation to those who are particularly exposed to a terrorist threat, such as children, according to the logic of a true precautionary principle. We also propose measures of a judicial nature. We believe that it is necessary for police custody in the area of terrorism to last up to 30 days, drawing on the practice of British democracy in this regard. It seems essential to us, too, to increase further the specialization of the judicial authorities, of the prosecutor's office and of the headquarters, which are called upon to deal with terrorist cases, which, alas, are becoming more and more important! in their volume as in their technicality. To that end, we propose the establishment of a specialized national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, as well as a counter-terrorism security court, composed of professional magistrates, to deal with both terrorist crimes and crimes. The same logic of specialization must apply, downstream, to the treatment in prisons of individuals, accused or detained, under the Islamic mobility. A double isolation of these individuals – in comparison to other incarcerated individuals, but also in relation to each other – seems indispensable to us. We also call on you to establish a security detention regime for convicted terrorists who are at the end of their sentence and therefore supposed to be released from prison; an assessment of their danger is absolutely essential if society is not to be exposed to recidivism. This anti-terrorist rearmament law, which we propose to you, will have to be supplemented by an initiative allowing systematic checks at internal borders, during the period of the state of emergency. It is unlikely that the Schengen Borders Code will allow the re-establishment of controls at internal borders in the event of a terrorist threat for a maximum of two years. This absurd deadline, which was accepted by the French Government when the Schengen Code was amended in 2016, has absolutely no meaning, because it does not take account of the reality of the terrorist threat and it will force France, in a few weeks' time, in November, to lift its controls. We call on you to firmly assume a sovereign decision: as long as France is threatened by Islamist terrorism, systematic border controls must be able to be carried out sovereignly by the French authorities, where they decide and whenever they wish, 24 hours a day, if necessary. In this regard, the half-step you are proposing in clause 10 of your bill is in no way operational. I would add that legal rearmament will have to be accompanied, in the months and years to come, by a budgetary rearmament, which is indispensable to assume the sovereign tasks of the State. We will be debating this in a few weeks' time, during the review of the 2018 Finance Bill. Security expenditure – allocated to the army, the police, the gendarmerie and the judiciary – accounted for more than 6% of GDP in 1960 and still 4.5% in 1990, when François Mitterrand was President of the Republic; They now account for only 3% of domestic production. Our predecessors believed that they could benefit from the dividends of peace and did not see that a war had been declared to us; Our generation will have to take on a new war effort, which is indispensable in order to win peace. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in introducing this motion, on behalf of the opposition, I would first like to call on you to open your eyes to what this bill really is. In trying to get out of the state of emergency, President Emmanuel Macron committed a historical mistake. For what was falsely presented to us as a text "enhancing internal security" is, in truth, a law of legal disarmament that lowers the level of protection of the French. Our conviction is that, at a time when the jihadist threat is accelerating and increasing, the nation's rearmament is certainly the first duty of Members of Parliament. Everyone will therefore vote according to their conscience by assuming their responsibilities before the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u20	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u21	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, no, the law we are presenting to you is not a disarmament law. The state of emergency has corresponded to a certain state of threat, at some point in the history of our security, a moment when we did not think there could be a terrorist threat in our country. At the time of the Merah case, you might have been able, Mr. Larrivée, to make the same warnings as you are today; You didn't. And, at the time, there was no consequence of what was happening. Remember, we were talking about "wolves alone," before we realized that they were organized networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u22	There's both of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u23	At the time, in the face of an unforeseen and diffuse threat, the Government took the only necessary step: establishing a state of emergency. But this one, you know, can't last,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u24	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u25	...because the nature of the threat has changed: it is no longer only imminent; It's going to last in time, we know that. It is therefore a new combat that is engaged: a military combat, on the external fronts, led by our armies; an internal fight, which we conduct with our security forces. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You mentioned the budgetary effort, Mr Larrivée. As Minister of the Interior, I have examined the evolution of the security forces: let me tell you that they have experienced, including in intelligence, a cruel period, that of the RGPP, the general review of public policies: all of a sudden, the number of gendarmes, the number of police officers and the strength of our intelligence forces has decreased. Yeah, back then, we disarmed France, but it was your time, not ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u27	Shame on them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u28	For our part, on a continuous basis, from the Bataclan bombing, we rehired a number of policemen, gendarmes, we developed our intelligence forces again: we re-armed ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u29	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u30	Perhaps that is why today the action has become thinner, more focused: because we are more aware of the threat. This war must be waged in military terms, it must be waged in terms of internal security, but it must also be won in our neighbourhoods. When I look at the state of France, I think that in the space of twenty years, we have retreated a lot, that we are now experiencing more difficulties: a rising crime, a terrorism that strikes France. These difficulties arise on the soil of precariousness, of social misery. I was, in the past, mayor of a district with a neighborhood in great difficulty. As a member of the board of directors of an HLM office, I found that the level of income declined from year to year, that many were living only on social allowances. I thought there could be no balanced society under such conditions. We must ensure security but also, more broadly, restore a future for all, for each and every Frenchman, in order to prevent part of France from despairing, as in the last election campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u31	That's why you plan city politics credits!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Fighting mass unemployment, we no longer have 3.5 million unemployed, our cities no longer split in two, with rich and dynamic neighbourhoods, when so many others get poorer and ghettoized, it is also a way of ensuring our safety. That's what we all want to do together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u33	Stop blaming the poor! Let's talk about Lafarge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u34	And then a cultural fight must be waged. A new totalitarianism appears, which threatens to gradually reduce our freedoms; Our model could then no longer be able to oppose those who are now waging war not only on their territory but also on ours. Our greatness, France's strength, is to carry this culture of freedom, through which our country occupies a specific place in the world. It is through her that we will overcome. For my part, I believe in the strength of ideas, the strength of culture, the strength of civilization! [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LC group]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As I have already said, in ancient Greece there was, on the one hand, Sparta the warrior, and that is the model that you propose to us, gentlemen of the opposition; and on the other hand there was Athens, the city of culture, of civilization. What we will remember from history is Athens the glorious and not Sparta the warrior, because it is the first one that has given culture to the world, it is there that democracy and humanism were born, on which we rely today. It is this model that we want to retain. That is why we will reject the motion that you propose to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u35	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Viry, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u36	We are all aware and convinced in this Assembly of the importance of ensuring a high level of protection for France as long as the terrorist context persists; The key priority is to ensure the safety of the men and women living in our country. Everyone agrees, it seems to me, there is a danger; the previous speakers have reminded me of this. In this hostile environment in which a present terrorist threat persists, the state of emergency as defined in our law has its full meaning. Mr Minister of State, in your introductory statement you referred to the major democratic debates, you referred to the Republic. We agree with you. We must defend the Republic, magnify it, restore it in its values, in its principles, in its security. And there can be no republic without a solid state, there can be no republic without an inspired and serene nation. The temporary, temporary extension of the state of emergency will be justified precisely as long as the danger, which everyone recognizes, exists. Indeed, the state of emergency, in fine, preserves the Republic, defends the State and the nation. This legal regime is obviously more useful, more suited to the situation in our country than an uncertain and flawless text. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group will therefore vote in favour of the motion of rejection which our colleague Guillaume Larrivé has defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u37	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u38	How can we respond in two minutes to this motion of rejection by our colleague Guillaume Larrivé and to the reply of the Minister of State? It's almost all been said. I would just like to go back to Mr Larrivé's introductory statement, according to which our first duty, as elected representatives of the nation, is to safeguard this one. You're right, my dear colleague. However, you, who are also a prominent lawyer, cannot say that we could still extend the state of emergency, unless we remove their full meaning from words and lose their interest in exceptional legal mechanisms. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] On the other hand, we must adapt to the terrorist threat we face, within the framework of the rule of law, in accordance with the law. That, I believe, is precisely what the bill before us today is doing. A good balance has been found. In this regard, "at the same time" means taking into account several legitimate interests in order to achieve balance; Therefore, we must not deprive ourselves of it. By moving the cursor to meet the new security demands, the Government has struck the right balance between defending our freedoms and protecting our citizens. Therefore, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u40	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u41	In the face of the ever-higher, complex and lasting terrorist threat, it is imperative that we adapt our common legal arsenal. It is necessary to leave the state of emergency, an emergency regime which has largely lost its effectiveness after two years of application. Your project, Minister of State, is therefore timely, since it allows us to prepare for the exit from the state of emergency and to equip the public authorities with new permanent tools to combat terrorism. For Constructives, having a sense of responsibility is first of all supporting your project of action. However, we believe that some measures do not go far enough, and our group will have the opportunity to defend several amendments. In this sense, we will be able to propose. However, I note two contradictions in this motion for a preliminary rejection. First, there is an urgent need to get out of the state of emergency, because if we remain there, we will not be able to explain why we have not succeeded in eradicating the entire threat. The threat is there, it exists. It is therefore necessary to have the courage and the lucidity to include in the common law a number of tools essential to the security of all. In addition, in the Senate, a Republican majority voted a text in the general interest. Rejecting him contradicts what she has achieved with you, Minister of State. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Therefore, in the general interest and for our safety, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u42	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Dussopt, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u43	Our group will not vote on the motion to reject the Republicans for three reasons. Firstly, we have indicated in committee that we are ready to face this debate by making proposals, in particular on parliamentary scrutiny, which the rapporteur mentioned in his opening remarks. To vote on the motion for rejection would deprive us of this debate. Secondly, Mr Larrivé did not hide that his possible adoption would in fact open up the possibility for his group to present a proposal for a law with provisions which we believe are excessive and which would clearly lead to an excessive imbalance between freedom and security. We do not want to compromise the balance which has been preserved, I believe, in the course of the texts adopted. Finally, thirdly, the main angle of this motion for prior rejection is in one word: disarmament. However, we do not consider such a word to be correct in the light of this text, and we consider it even less so in the light of what has been achieved over the last five years. I associate myself with this, but do not take the habit too quickly, Minister of State, of paying tribute to the work you have done over the last five years to restructure the intelligence services, to equip them with new means and to restore their staff, and to the work that has led to the adoption of nine texts, not to mention the extension of the state of emergency – the last of 3 June 2016 – aimed at strengthening the legal arsenal available to our services and to better combat terrorism. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We will be extremely vigilant throughout the future debate and will make proposals to which we are particularly committed. But we want this debate to take place and will postpone the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u44	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u45	[[Murmures on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The La France insoumée group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, but for reasons contrary to those put forward by Mr Larrivé. Let me explain why, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Larrivé's argument is consistent because it goes to the end of the logic of the state of emergency. Incoherence is on the part of the majority and the Government, which want to institute procedures that so seriously undermine the rule of law. This is the opinion of all the organisations that the Law Commission has heard, in particular the CNCDH – the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights –, the Judicial Union and almost all the trade unions of lawyers and magistrates. Even today, Amnesty International and other associations held a press conference to explain, with supporting evidence, how this text so seriously undermines the rule of law, that we are all here ready to defend, while preventing the commission of terrorist acts. The urgency, in our view, with regard to the truly effective fight against terrorist acts lies in the flattening of the fifteen pieces of legislation passed since 1986, in the opening of a genuine debate on the reorganization of services and the increase of the means of justice, intelligence and the police; Instead, the Government is embarking on measures that further precipitate the security trend that the Minister of State himself has recognized is likely to lead to what a journalist has called "soft despotism". [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Combating terrorist acts effectively therefore requires more rule of law and not less. We must have the courage to say that there is no zero risk of terrorism and to give us the means to guarantee democratic rights and freedoms. That is why we will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, so that we can have this debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u46	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u47	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] For our part, with full responsibility, we want this parliamentary debate to be completed and we will not join in a motion for a prior rejection, which is, moreover, based on the agitation of fear. On the other hand, we will vote for the text to be referred back to committee because we believe that it should have a significantly greater density and thickness in order to strengthen the fight against terrorism, by strengthening national cohesion. We call for a comprehensive approach to the prevention and deterrence of terrorism. However, while this text alone shows the difficulties of intervention by the security services, it does not address the outbreak of terrorism and its first ideological manifestations, whatever they may be, or a fortiori their prevention. Thus, in our view, the legitimate concern of national representation to prevent terrorism requires that broad segments of civil society be sensitized and mobilized through bold public policies in the areas of prevention, security, mental health, education and popular education, promotion of women's rights and transparency in the exercise of places of worship. These are the deposits of observations that our security services themselves, within the framework of our rule of law, could make use of. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Unfortunately, this is not on the agenda, but the fight against terrorism will be a long one, as we all know. Unfortunately, your bill, Minister of State, lacks the social, cultural and educational policy measures that you have brilliantly mentioned and that we would like to make a point of referring the text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u48	Mrs Elise Fajgeles, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u49	I'm Charlie. Who could have imagined such a tragedy? Since January 7, 2015, we know. I am Suzon, too, this twenty-one-year-old girl, daughter of a friend who is dear to me, murdered in Bataclan on November 13, 2015. I am also thinking of the victims who fell that evening, in the heart of my constituency, on the terraces of Carillon and Petit Cambodge, as well as all the victims of terrorism, in France and around the world. After the attacks of 2015, there was an emergency; but, after the sideration, came the time for a lasting response. We must now take stock of this new reality: the threat is permanent. It is time to take on exceptional administrative measures and to leave the state of emergency. It is time to get out of the state of emergency and regain the rule of law. It is time to propose a balanced and appropriate response to the violence that threatens us. This balance is that of a security arsenal that responds effectively to terrorism while preserving our democratic principles of freedom. All the experts heard by the Law Committee during the hearings told us: what is effective now is no longer the state of emergency; What is effective are targeted measures, adapted to a perennial threat, specialized in Islamist terrorism that we have known since 2015. These are the measures we need within the framework of our rule of law. That is the purpose of the legislation before us today. [[Protests on several benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Why pour into the caricature and the overbid as you do with this motion of rejection before, with great blows of disproportionate measures? You're confusing emergency and security. On the contrary, let us have the courage to respond to the legitimate concern of the French with this balanced and responsible text, which reconciles security and freedom! In the face of those who threaten our national cohesion, our democratic model and our republican values, it is indeed this balance that our country needs. Therefore, we will not vote on your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u50	[[The question being put on the motion to reject it beforehand, it was not adopted.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u51	[[At 17.05 p.m., Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaced Mr. François de Rugy in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u52	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u53	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are discussing today is extremely important. It is essential because it affects the safety of our compatriots. It also affects their freedom. We believe that security and freedom are intimately associated and that this old debate, which has often fractured the Republic, does not have to be. Defending security is first of all defending our freedoms. This is the spirit in which the Republican Group will address this crucial and crucial debate. We will approach it with a spirit of responsibility, enshrined in the approach that has always guided us, since our country has been following this "long tragic path", according to the expression used by former DGSI boss Patrick Calvar, during his hearing by the commission of inquiry on the means used by the State to combat terrorism since 7 January 2015, which I had taken the chair a few days after the attack on Charlie Hebdo. We are still following this "long tragic path" and, alas, we cannot! to perceive the term. Since these tragic dates – January 7, 2015, November 13, 2015, July 14, 2016 in Nice – 239 of our compatriots have died and more than 800 have been injured. It's an indelible scar. It's a terrible stigma for our nation. We collectively have a duty to respond to this situation. A war has been declared to our nation. France is at war outside its borders. Our soldiers are delivering an exemplary and courageous fight, which calls for unlimited recognition and admiration on our part. They are waging this war in theatres of outside operations. But, as you have often pointed out, Minister of State, this war is also present in the national territory, where soldiers protect us and where networks are dismantled by our police and intelligence services, who do exemplary work every day. We know that, Minister of State, and we share this with you. We also know that you, like all of us, are driven collectively by this spirit of responsibility that encourages us to better protect our nation. Suffer, however, that we have differences about the solutions to do so! All of us here, members of the national representation, who embody the diversity of the political expression of our country, are individually and collectively driven by the desire to better protect our fellow citizens. Every day, the soul of France is put to the test by barbarians who want to destroy all that we are and all that we have been, all that France is: the country of the Enlightenment, the country of civilization, the country of freedom. Yes, these barbarians want to destroy our civilization because they hate our culture and our way of life, as you said earlier, Minister of State. Here, ladies and gentlemen, as we open this vital debate, we must express with seriousness and responsibility our gratitude to those who protect us: our military, our police, our gendarmes and our intelligence officers. Their competence is immense; Their courage is boundless. And that courage and skill, minister, they are not recent. Suffer, too, that we have a nuance with you. You seem to say that these services have acquired their competence for a short time, when it has been in place for a very long time. We are fortunate to have some of the best services in the world, including intelligence services, for many years. Nor should we ever forget the sacrifice of the victims, the mourning of the families, the suffering, the wounds, the tragedies. You recalled the martyrdom of these men and women. For my part, I will never forget the images of the night of horror that I lived on July 14, 2016, in Nice, in my city, in my constituency. I will never forget the pain, the screams, the images of terror. Names bear the martyrdom and sacrifice of these victims: Jessica Schneider, Jean-Baptiste Salvaing, Father Hamel, Xavier Jourlé and so many others, who form the long procession of those who have had to suffer Islamic barbarism in their flesh. France must face a formidable enemy. You have, Mr. Minister of State, on several occasions made the relevant and lucid statement of the seriousness of the situation. We know that France is a privileged target, because it is precisely the country of freedoms and Enlightenment. We also know – you said it, you repeated it, you struck it and you were right to do it – that the threat, more than ever, is maximum. On 13 January 2015, a few days after the Charlie Hebdo and Hyper Cacher attacks, then Prime Minister Manuel Valls delivered a great and beautiful speech from the top of this rostrum, calling for national unity. While this national unity is still in place, it must also be noted that, since that speech, many elements have deteriorated. The figures are yours, Minister of State: 18500 people are now on the alert file for the prevention of radicalization of a terrorist nature, compared to 14500 just a year ago. The progress, unfortunately, is strong, impressive, worrying, if not worrying. The Parliament of the Republic has passed thirteen anti-terrorism laws since 2012: we have all voted, Minister of State, with the desire to offer our fellow citizens an ever higher level of protection. So yes, we want national unity; We have always defended it and we will always defend it with the latest energy. But this national unity will always have a limit in us: the weakening of our protective devices. Now, as Guillaume L. has brilliantly demonstrated at the moment, your bill will, even if it is certainly not your will, bring down our protective device at a time when it is less relevant than ever to do so. As you told us, twelve attacks have been foiled on national soil since 1 January. Barcelona, London, not to mention in France a multitude of attacks targeting the Sentinel force: the dramatic count of the attacks echoes the double fault that you are about to commit – a mistake not only against national unity, but above all against the security of the French. Minister of State, your bill does not meet the security imperatives facing our country. We deeply regret it because, in the extremely serious moments that our country is going through, we must be able to face the evil. Péguy pointed out: "You always have to say what you see. Especially you always have to, which is more difficult, see what you see. Well, we have the feeling that you do not see, in all of its reality, the seriousness of the situation. Through this bill, the Government demonstrates that it has not taken into account the magnitude of the threat to France. Allow me to register totally falsely against the analysis you made this morning during an interview and which you have resumed at the moment. If we can share the diagnosis or the finding, this is not the case, Mr Minister of State, of your analysis of the causes of the terrorist situation in our country, for which you seem to blame mass unemployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u54	You're right, it's absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u55	We cannot accept this social explanation of terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u57	The President of the Republic had already used this explanation, on 21 November 2015, a few days after the Bataclan, at the University of Gracques. His remarks then provoked a reaction as sharp as legitimate on the part of the then Prime Minister, Mr Valls – I see him acquiescer – who was right to point out that there is no explanation for terrorism, because explaining terrorism is already justifying it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u58	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u59	If unemployment in France explained terrorism, how would you explain it in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Mali and in all countries where Islamist barbarism gangens freedoms and threatens human lives? The reality is that trying such an explanation is already a mistake, Minister of State. We wanted to tell you. This text is, in many respects – and this is the reason why its referral to committee is justified – a missed opportunity. It is based on an erroneous double assumption. The first is to consider that leaving the state of emergency is a first truth, an absolute evidence. We strongly challenge this assumption. No, it is neither necessary, nor mandatory, nor imperative – on the contrary – to leave the state of emergency today. The Chair of the Law Commission stated that leaving the state of emergency would be courageous. We strongly reject this approach. To leave the state of emergency, far from being an act of courage, would on the contrary be an act of weakness. The State of Emergency Act of 3 April 1955 provides relevant, albeit perfectable, tools for law enforcement and intelligence services. Thus, since the beginning of its implementation, more than 4,500 administrative searches have been carried out and – as you yourself pointed out – thirty judicial proceedings have been opened following such a search, which means that attacks have been thwarted thanks to the tools, the weapons provided by the state of emergency. It's a precious asset you're going to deprive us of. The other assumption, Mr. Minister of State, is such a strong concern, perhaps even stronger: you are about to put an end to border controls next November. On 13 November 2015, France temporarily reinstated controls at its borders, activating Article 2 of the Schengen Borders Code. If the decision to activate this provision had first been taken by the then President of the Republic to secure the Paris Climate 2015 conference – COP21 – his opportunity had naturally been strengthened after the attacks that had hit our capital on the night of 13 November. This measure did not constitute a closure of borders – the crossing is, fortunately, always allowed for persons proving their identity – or even a suspension of the Schengen border code agreements, since this exceptional measure is allowed by the same code. Rather, it was a very relevant suspension of free movement. As highlighted in the impact assessment, internal border controls have proven to be useful in preventing terrorism. In addition to being a deterrent, they have made it possible to monitor and investigate a large number of individuals reported in European and national databases. You yourself said earlier that, since 2014, the number of people detected and included in the police files at the border – the files of the wanted people of the Schengen Information System, said SIS – had quadrupled. This is the best argument you could use to justify maintaining this derogation period. This second assumption – that of the end of border control – is, after the first one concerning the exit from the state of emergency, a mistake and even a mistake. We do not understand that the President of the Republic, who has been elected for more than four months now, has not made the maintenance of border control one of his priorities for action with his European partners: he should have claimed this position of France loud and clear. Unfortunately, the provisions laid down in Article 10 of the text to remedy the abolition of border controls will be completely inadequate: they will in no way have an equivalent effect to the current provisions. In particular, checks may be carried out only for the purpose of preventing and investigating offences related to organised crime, and interventions may not consist of systematic checks on persons present or circulating in the areas concerned. As of November 11, we will suffer this aberration: the borders will again be completely open, without taking into account either the threat you describe or the serious migration crisis we are going through. However, as you are well aware, some attacks, particularly those at the airport and in the Brussels metro, have demonstrated the penetration into European territory of Islamist terrorists infiltrated into the channels fuelling migratory flows. You do not have the will to maintain this protection: we deplore it. Mr.Minister of State, the reason for this motion to refer to committee is that we believe that your bill is a clear step backwards from the state of emergency and that it has very important legal and political shortcomings. The main measures of the state of emergency have been emptied of their substance or removed – Guillaume Larrivé demonstrated it. You claim to transpose into ordinary law the provisions of the Act of 3 April 1955, which we amended when we extended the state of emergency. The reality, as you know, is quite different. In the case of perimeters of protection, unlike emergency protection zones, the provisions of the draft law relate only to places or events that are at risk of terrorist acts because of their nature or the extent of their use. The criteria are limiting. In addition, safety palpations, visual inspection, baggage searches and vehicle inspections will now be subject to the consent of the persons concerned, thereby rendering these devices meaningless. The same is true for administrative searches, renamed "home visits". The Union of Commissioners of the National Police, during its hearing before the Law Commission, described this new legal tool as "legal monstrosity", and considered that the mechanism had "become totally inoperative".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u60	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u61	This search, which will now be decided by the judge of freedoms and detention, will be assimilated to a judicial search. While judicial searches fortunately exist in our law, administrative searches pursued other objectives, including the removal of doubt in an urgent manner. In fact, this tool will disappear. With regard to house arrest, which has been renamed "individual surveillance measure", its scope cannot be lower than the municipality. Individuals with a serious terrorist threat will therefore be able to walk freely in Paris – throughout Paris, ladies and gentlemen, without any restrictions – if they reside in the capital. Worse: other measures have even disappeared. This is the possibility for the prefect to prohibit the stay of individuals whose behaviour poses a threat to public security and order. I am also thinking of the possibility for the prefects, introduced by an amendment tabled by our group in the previous parliamentary term, to order identity checks, visual inspection and baggage searches and vehicle visits. Minister of State, you will delete or alter provisions that have already been used 2000 times! Minister of State, we're telling you again: another way is possible. This bill is a missed opportunity. To combat terrorism, several levers must be used forcefully. At the operational and therefore budgetary level, the essential question is, of course, the question of means. You are smiling, Minister of State, and you are developing an argument that has already been used repeatedly by your socialist colleagues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u62	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u63	[[Rites and exclamations on FI banks]] ...because you are a socialist, Mr. Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u64	Don't exaggerate, Mr. Ciotti!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u65	You were a socialist parliamentarian; We don't forget it. So you accuse us of having reduced the means of law enforcement, but Guillaume Larrivé quoted figures that show that our responsibility is collective. In 1965, we spent 6.5 per cent of public spending on nation protection, the army, justice and the police. Today, this share has fallen to 3.16%. So we can turn our backs on responsibility, but you've been in power as much as we have. Everyone may have made mistakes in their analysis, but today we share the same observation: we all say that we are at war. As Guillaume Larrivé pointed out, our duty, our priority should be to rearm the State. However, this text does not provide for this. You could have proposed a great law of programming and orientation for the next ten years, or at least for the next five years. Together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, at the end of the previous legislature, we tabled a bill aimed at rearming the state, at having a comprehensive and comprehensive vision for our armies, our police, our gendarmerie and our justice. In the face of the threat, in the face of the urgency, we could all have found ourselves. Are we going to continue to turn our back on responsibility, to oppose those who have created police posts and those who have abolished them? I could remind you, Minister of State, that you supported Lionel Jospin's government, which, in 1997, abolished 12,000 police posts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u66	[[Smile]] We weren't born!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u67	... which we recreated afterwards but which were again deleted a little later. Similarly, the Court of Auditors pointed out that there were fewer police officers and gendarmes in 2015 than in 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u68	That's right! You have to say everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u69	This is the reality: in 2015, three years after the first attacks, there were 865 fewer police officers than in 2012. Let's rearm the state, assume our responsibilities, look at the future, look away, end up with the measurements, the communication and the justifications. General de Villiers said it with courage and put his function at stake: let's listen to him, on this subject as on others.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u70	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u71	Yes, Minister of State, there are very important gaps in your text. In particular, it is silent with regard to the preventive aspect. You are right to refer to prevention – which is of course important – but nothing is envisaged to prevent binational jihadists from returning to national territory, like the passport ban set up by our British friends. Nor are there any plans to control the personnel of transport companies, or of national education, who pose a threat in their sector of activity. The repressive side is just as absent. In the face of these shortcomings, we will present proposals and amendments which we want to see studied in committee. In particular, we propose to increase the term of imprisonment from 10 to 15 years for participation in an association of criminals in connection with a terrorist enterprise in a delictual setting – this is of course already the case when the offence was committed in a criminal setting. There are also no plans to remove foreigners who pose a threat to public order. We propose to facilitate expulsions and prohibitions of territory. Similarly, this bill does not provide for a new organization of our intelligence and investigative services. However, you know the solution, the path to be followed in this area. We had committed ourselves to this, and you don't mind, with the creation of the Central Directorate of Internal Intelligence, the DCRI, resulting from the merger of the Central Directorate of General Intelligence and the Directorate of Territorial Surveillance, the DST.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u72	It was a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u73	This path was continued with the creation of the Directorate General of Internal Security, DGSI, on which you did not return – you were right, because this is the only relevant path. Today we need a large foreign intelligence service – we have it with the Directorate General of External Security, DGSE – and, at the same time, a large internal intelligence service, with DGSI, which would include the Intelligence Directorate of the police prefecture and territorial intelligence. You're multiplying the coordinating bodies. There are now three coordination units responsible for coordinating coordination! There is therefore no unity of action or unity of command, but a dispersion. There are no plans to set up this new organization. Nor do you plan to increase the investigative powers of the law enforcement forces, now faced with a procedural maquis that prevents them from working. You are not planning anything to strengthen the powers of municipal police officers, nor to simplify and dematerialize criminal proceedings. You do not plan to go further in the use of technological tools such as automated license plate reading or facial recognition. There is also no provision for the prison component, whereas the prison is the privileged site of radicalization. We propose to introduce a regime of strict segregation of radicalized prisoners to avoid contamination and to assign the status of judicial police officer to prison directors. Finally, there is no provision for demanding secularism, a subject which I know is dear to you, Minister of State. I was even shocked to hear, a few days ago, the President of the Republic say that politics should not have a pre-eminence over religious. This approach is deeply shocking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u74	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Politics, the State, the Republic must always take precedence over religious. The law of the Republic must always prevail in the face of the laws of religions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u77	This approach of the President of the Republic is dangerous and based on an erroneous analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u78	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u79	We want to denounce her. Small delinquents become hate preachers and then human bombs. Imams gangrene our youth by pretending to offer him in the jihad a door to the sacred he lacks. And we, politicians, we hesitate, we have the hand that trembles – at least this is your case – while we should tackle the root of evil. We can no longer accept that men use faith to embolden heads and corrupt our society. It is not Islam and Islam to dictate its conduct to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LC groups]] It is up to France to impose a practice of Islam that respects the values of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u82	This applies to all religions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u83	Salafist mosques must be closed to guarantee the security of the French. There are also no plans, Minister of State, to apply an indispensable precautionary principle. Jean-Jacques Rousseau said: "Every free State where the great crises have not been foreseen is at every storm in danger of perishing. You are refusing administrative detention, which allows us to implement this precautionary principle – we will return to it during the debates. You also refuse security detention, which would, however, prevent the perpetrators of terrorist crimes from continuing to pose a threat upon their release from prison. Minister of State, we defend national unity but we do not want to align ourselves with a fatalism of circumstance by weeping our dead after every new attack. National unity must not exempt us from a requirement of lucidity. National unity is to define priorities to rearm the Regalian state, to protect the French, to give security actors the means to lead the war against jihadism, Islamism and barbarism on national soil. National unity is first and foremost to defend our people. Islamist terrorism wants us dead. We've lost too much time. The time has come to change methods to anticipate the inevitable trials to come by combining pragmatism and efficiency. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LC group]] Far from making the necessary improvements to our arsenal of fight against terrorism, this text will weaken it, to the detriment of the security of the French. The French do not want compassion: they demand that we act to protect them. In this war, this bill is a weapon without ammunition. That is why we wish to refer it back to committee. If you reject this referral and the amendments that we will be defending in order to improve this text, we will be forced to oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u84	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u85	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I recognize Mr. Ciotti's fervour. It cannot be blamed for not being a continuity, even if this continuity may have a somewhat monomanic character from time to time. Perhaps you could also intervene on other topics of society: it would give us a better view of your personal complexity. You have this global vision, but, stupid, you're trying to hide it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u86	These personal attacks are unworthy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u87	You're a good actor, but you're not responding to Mr. Ciotti's arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u88	In fact, you started your speech by nuanced the words you were going to make at the end. Indeed, you know that we have no hesitation on these security issues, but you also know that, in order to take a number of measures, we must, as you say, gather together widely. I have listened at length to a number of your friends in the Senate and, in response to each of your arguments, I could object to what you say to the National Assembly and what you said in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u89	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u90	Here we are in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You say we have to gather, but how do you want to achieve national unity if you don't start by agreeing with your own friends? As for us, we want to gather as widely as possible because it is essential to ensure our safety. As you know, this bill is a first piece of legislation to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u92	All right? Will there be more?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u93	But yes, there will be more!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u94	Why postpone what you can do now?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u95	For example, there will be a text on criminal procedure, which we are currently working on with Mrs Custody of Seals and which will digitize a number of procedures. Thus, the procedures followed by the courts, the police and the gendarmerie will take less time than today – you know that the police and gendarmes regret that an hour of investigation requires about six hours of administrative work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u96	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u97	We will therefore carry out a reform of the criminal procedure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u98	When?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u99	... just as we are going to carry out, in the coming times, security reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u100	Now we have to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u101	We will put in place this daily security police that will allow the police to be present again in our neighbourhoods, so to know what is happening there, to find intelligence there and to observe its evolution. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group and on a few benches in the MODEM group]] That's where we can fight radicalisation, because that's where it starts. If we no longer know the neighborhoods, we can no longer fight radicalisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u102	What sponcifs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u103	At the same time, I suggest that you listen to what some intellectuals say about the evolution of our society or read, for example, the report just published by the Institut Montaigne on these problems of terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u104	You're talking intellectuals! Poor Montaigne...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u105	Yes, the threat is great and it is important, but it is not only with enhanced security means, even if they are indispensable, that we will fight. As I said earlier, it is first and foremost cultural that we will win.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u106	Terrorism is therefore not due to unemployment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u107	[[Applause on several benches of the REM, MODEM and FI groups]] The attacks have certainly affected our countries, but in the world, it is in Muslim countries that the deaths by attacks have been the most numerous. We must therefore not confuse Islam and Islam, as we sometimes wish to do, because that is how we will lose. It must be brought together and said that some – no matter what their religion – carry a will for peace, while others want, as was once the case, to impose a regressive vision of society through violence and crime, and that it is exclusively against them that we fight. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and FI groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That is what we think, Mr. Ciotti; That is why we want to gather together, not discriminate by pointing at each other. I know – but you did not mention – that some of the victims of the Nice attacks were indeed Muslim.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u108	That goes without saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u109	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Terrorism condemns everyone and makes no distinction between them, depending on their political, philosophical or religious views. As for us, we are trying to bring society together. That is how we will defeat terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u110	Get to the point! It's bla-bla! That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u111	[[Same movements]] Mr Jacob, we have already spent 13 hours in committee examining all the amendments. In order to please Mr Ciotti, we will review them at the sitting and he will have the opportunity to state his views. We will affirm ours and the French will see who really protects them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u112	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u113	It's not Cazeneuve!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u114	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee. Mr Patrice Verchère, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u115	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister of State, your comments on Eric Ciotti in such an important discussion are, on the part of a minister, quite low. The bill that you are presenting to us, as Eric Ciotti pointed out, comes at a time when our country, like other European countries, is facing a very strong terrorist threat. It marks the exit of the state of emergency even though the threat is high, it represents a sharp decline from the state of emergency and has serious shortcomings. Indeed, the main measures of the state of emergency have been emptied of their substance or even abolished. The threat is, however, maximum, as you have pointed out – and we agree, of course, with that fact. However, paradoxically, you will, with this text, degrade our protection tools by bringing them to a lower level. We consider that the measures you are proposing to us are not commensurate with the protection afforded to our citizens by the state of emergency. These setbacks are worrying for the security of the French, as the exit from the state of emergency will deprive our security and intelligence services of some of the tools that enable them to limit the risk of a move to action. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time since 2012, we are going to step back and weaken our protective devices. The alternative measures that your text introduces, Minister of State, have nothing to do with the state of emergency. However, in the face of the acceleration and amplification of the Islamist terrorist threat, our duty is to give the security forces all the legal, operational and budgetary means they need to protect the French. The Group of the Republicans is convinced that the time has come, not to leave the state of emergency but, on the contrary, to extend it by means of a battery of administrative and judicial measures to better protect France and the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The lack of ambition of this text is the reason why the Republican Group calls on all Members to adopt this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u116	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u117	Two observations are common to us with our colleagues in the group. The Republicans: the threat is very high and we are all concerned to protect our fellow citizens. This will end there, despite the fact that we will agree to vote with them on certain measures. Moreover, I do not understand the difference in argument between the two motions put forward by the Republicans – in fact, I have heard almost twice the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u118	You're not listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u119	I shall therefore reply twice the same thing: the text proposed to us responds to the threat as it exists today, to which we adapt ourselves in accordance with the rule of law. We therefore leave the state of emergency and adapt to the new context by seeking – and finding – the new position where the cursor should be placed between the protection of freedoms and the need to ensure the safety of our citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, to which I belong, will not vote on this motion for referral to committee either.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u120	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u121	I mentioned earlier the reasons for rejecting Mr. Larrivé's motion. The same arguments remain valid. I will also use, without a spirit of provocation, the expression "at the same time": there is indeed a major contradiction to say that we must "at the same time" strengthen our security and remain in a state of emergency. The state of emergency must not be a permanent state. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] It is therefore time to move forward in the discussion and, in the general interest, to put in place clear, strong and useful mechanisms to combat terrorism and ensure our security. Senators from the right and center are doing it; Let's have the courage to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u122	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Dussopt, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u123	The Socialist Group could have tabled a motion to refer the matter of parliamentary scrutiny to committee. We didn't, for two reasons. The first is that the committee has already worked a long time and that a number of advances have been made – I am thinking in particular of the fact that we have removed the homes of journalists, protected professions, parliamentarians and lawyers from the list of so-called "visitable" places. We are also making a bet: the one that the debates that will bring us here for several days allow us to go further on the topics that we believe have not yet been sufficiently addressed. That is why we want to enter this debate and will therefore not vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u124	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u125	Although we are rather opposed to the vast majority of the proposals put forward by Mr Ciotti, we will vote on this motion to return to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u126	What a logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u127	We have heard, in particular, that we had gone around the matter during the committee work and that we had seen everything, everything, everything and everything. We have conducted hearings – many, it is true – but, for example, we have not heard any customs officers. However, customs officials do not seem to me to be a side to the fight against and the prevention of acts of terrorism. Nor have we heard from researchers or sociologists, yet we have research laboratories and renowned and high-quality personalities to study these issues. Returning to committee would make it possible to carry out these hearings next to which we have gone. Indeed, we want to put in place all the necessary measures to combat terrorist acts effectively. The text that we are going to examine still induces ratcheting effects. However, we rarely go back and you open with this text a boulevard to Mr Ciotti's outrages because, as you yourself say, it is only a first text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u128	Dear colleague, please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u129	It seems to me that the chronometer had not been reset... So it is either a first text, which means that there will be others and that we will go even further in questioning individual freedoms, or there is a lack of synchronization – why was this text not prepared jointly with the Ministry of Justice? This is a symptom of what is happening. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Referral to the committee will also raise the question of the means of justice and intelligence services, as well as the methods that one wishes to see implemented because, in reality, the text misses all of this – as if an umpteenth text were to address the issue of combating terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u130	That's concrete!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u131	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u132	We will vote for the referral back to committee, as I said earlier. Many subjects should indeed feed our thinking and we want to take date. I will take a few of them, starting with specialized prevention, which I mentioned earlier and which has never been so weakened in our country. It is, as several examples show, the first victim of the budget cuts of departments or metropolises – where jurisdiction has been taken by the latter. As a result, the contact of educators with an audience to be protected is now particularly compromised. At the same time, a real community police, combining its presence with citizens with a careful observation of social life, remains, despite some official declarations, a construction site that has not been opened. In the area of education and health, we will make some proposals which we would like to see discussed in committee. We therefore expect strong initiatives in such areas as effective child-psychiatric monitoring of children and adolescents. We are also proposing, in the strict sense of education, the introduction, as an indication, of the teaching of the history of religions in the college under the aegis of national education, which is a guarantee of both ethics and critical examination. Finally, the situation of places of worship would of course deserve a specific and thorough work, carried out in close cooperation with the religious authorities. In this regard, we regret the absence of a hearing of these officials by the committee. There would be scope for an in-depth and open dialogue on the financing and teaching of religion, both for the legal person as the place of worship and for those who are authorized to speak with the community of the faithful, with a view to transparency of investment and operating budgets, the training of speech holders, and the advancement of the vernacular language in religious exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u133	Mr. Wulfranc, please conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u134	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] That is why we are asking, Mr Minister of State – and this is a final proposal – that a parliamentary committee of inquiry be set up without delay to debate proposals on all public policies relating to the prevention of radicalisation and terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u135	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u136	The La République en marche group will not vote on this motion. On the substance, our position is clear: we wish to leave the state of emergency and to transpose into our common law, in an appropriate manner, the specific measures which have proved their worth and which I shall mention only the main ones: the scope of protection, the possibility of closing places of worship, individual measures of surveillance and home visits and seizures. Our will to combat terrorism is complete, but we believe that the path you are proposing, Mr Ciotti, will have an opposite effect to that sought. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] On the form, the text was tabled on the Bureau of the National Assembly on 19 July. The hearings began at the end of July and were held until September. Our committee has held 13 hours of debate and 300 amendments have been studied. The chairman of the committee also welcomed the way in which this work was carried out. In these circumstances, we will not vote for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u137	Mr Jean-Louis Masson spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u138	Mr. Minister of State, I was impressed by your fervour and determination. You were more measured in the Law Commission, during the approximately seventeen hours you spent with us, when you presented this text of which you are the initiator and which you defend on behalf of the Government. Your analysis is very clear: you indicate, on the one hand, that the terrorist threat is still at a high level, if not very high – the recent attacks in Barcelona, Finland and London give you reason – and, on the other hand, that the state of emergency has prevented as many as twelve attacks since 1 January – welcome on this occasion the professionalism of our police officers and gendarmes. Paradoxically, while the facts plead to maintain the maximum level of security, you propose to replace the state of emergency which, according to you, has proved its worth, a law which certainly resembles the state of emergency – having the taste of the state of emergency, would say some – but which is not the state of emergency. The second contradiction is that you have written, not without relevance, about the evolution of the threat. Until recently, it was inspired by the foreigner and, in particular, the Islamic State, which has suffered, as everyone knows, major military setbacks. Allow me, at this point in my speech, to pay tribute to the exemplary nature of our armed forces involved in the theatres of operations. In your opinion, this exogenous threat has therefore turned into an endogenous threat specific to each European country. How can we not mention organized crime, in the context of drug trafficking, which is rampant in our neighbourhoods, as well as the public crime associated with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u139	What about Lafarge? At home, what we find, they're not caïds, they're traitors to the homeland!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u140	They often serve as a home for the emergence of small caïds who gain their title of glory through their custody. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that these neighbourhoods have been transformed for years into areas of lawlessness, with the authority of the police and gendarmes being undermined and the judicial response complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u141	No, no: Lafarge is among the rich, not in the neighborhoods!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u142	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these places are conducive to the recruitment of Islamist-terrorists in the name of an ideology that wants to destroy our values – social misery or not. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the code of internal security does not respond to it or does not respond to it. This bill remains inoperative in this area, which should, however, be a priority objective. In your reply to Mr Ciotti, you acknowledged the complexity of our Code of Criminal Procedure. All the investigators you have met have explained this to you, and tell us this when we visit them: the formalism, the many substantial rules, the risks of nullity that result from it, contradict the effectiveness of the police and gendarmes. During police custody, they lose considerable investigative time in judicially unproductive administrative tasks. You have just announced, Mr. Minister of State, that a reform to make the Code of Criminal Procedure more balanced was under consideration by Mrs. Keeper of Seals and would be on the agenda as early as 2018. We take note of this, but in the meantime the problems remain. Issues remain unanswered, including prison overcrowding. This affects the supervision of prisoners whose educators are not only those of the prison administration, but also those who practice radicalization: the effects are often catastrophic. There is also no answer to the question of the reconstruction of services and intelligence, as well as to the question of justice left in set-aside, unworthy of the fifth world power.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u143	That's right, but it's kind of your record!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u144	In the end, Minister, I say to you with seriousness: this act, taken in isolation, is not adapted to the circumstances – and I think that deep down, you know that. We all have an immense responsibility in this House: to protect our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u145	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u146	In the Republican Group, we consider that it is not enough to give this title to a bill whose content, precisely, does not convince us. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, and you will understand, we cannot resolve to see the level of security in our country lowered, while the context does not lend itself to it. At the same time, we remain open to future debates, eagerly hoping that the majority will listen to and incorporate our amendments. In this regard, the majority proclaims its keen interest in participatory democracy. Well, participatory democracy, ladies and gentlemen, begins with national representation – now and in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u147	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u148	Madam President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, the state of emergency was declared by the Government on 14 November 2015 following the attack on Bataclan and the shootings of the same day which had killed 130 people in Paris; This memory remains painful for all of us. The state of emergency was extended six times – the last by the same assembly in July 2017, until November 1. The Government indicated that there would be no further extension. He called for the necessary legislation to ensure internal security and combat terrorism to be incorporated into a long-standing law: we can only subscribe to that approach. The state of emergency is, by definition, a system of exceptional law: it must not be trivialised. While the terrorist threat is now better fought than it was two years ago, thanks to the exceptional experience, courage and dedication of our security forces, it has not diminished. We must therefore adapt our legislation, give us the means to win inside – you have reminded, Minister of State, that the threat is now endogenous – this war against terrorism, which will not end with the imminent defeat of the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. Therefore, the measures set out in the Government Bill appeared to us, as a whole, both justified and proportionate to the stated objectives: to ensure in an effective manner the security of the French in this new context of terrorist threat. The amendments tabled by our group are therefore intended not to combat the bill or even to reorient it, but to improve it. It must be clear that the Government's text does not, in our view, pose any problems regarding France's level of response to terrorism. A first set of amendments dealt with article 2 of the draft, on the closure of places of worship. First of all, we welcome the fact that a first amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Laws. It consisted of increasing criminal penalties and providing for a prison sentence enabling the public prosecutor to demand immediate pretrial detention of those responsible for places of worship who refused to execute a closure order. Two other amendments were rejected in committee, although they were in the spirit of firmness. We're keeping them. The first is intended to make the closure of the place of worship decided by the Prefect immediately enforceable, without the appeal being suspensive. The second adds to the main penalties incurred by the offender the additional penalty of prohibition of the national territory, once the offence has been committed by an alien. To those who object that these provisions violate freedom of worship, I reply that freedom of worship should not under any circumstances be used as a screen or pretext for terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u150	Religions are exercised freely in France, but in accordance with the laws of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u151	This is not the opinion of the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u152	There can be no modesty or hesitation in this area: the only criterion to guide us must be the security of the French. With regard to the prohibition of territory, we were opposed to the fact that it was generally intended for very serious crimes or offences. My old life gives me the opportunity to affirm that the ban on French territory can be pronounced for a small dealer. We must therefore appreciate the behaviors involved: preaching jihad may also deserve this complementary punishment. Three other amendments relate to articles 1, 4 and 4 bis of the draft law. The first is aimed at strengthening the training of agents of private security companies. They will have more powers when they ensure the protection of security perimeters: it is legitimate, when more powers are available, to be better trained – and well trained. The second amendment seeks to ensure that the public prosecutor of the Republic of Paris can have judicial searches carried out, in the event of an offence, in the places covered by the orders of the judge of freedoms and detention, once the judge has originally been seized by the prefect. This already exists in our procedure, but it is better by writing it down and adopting this provision. The third amendment seeks, with a view to a possible renewal of the measures introduced by articles 3 and 4 of the draft law, to establish a monitoring committee, composed mainly of parliamentarians of the two assemblies, a representative of the Ministry of the Interior and a judge of the judiciary. This latter initiative seems to me to be doubly justified. It falls entirely within the scope of Parliament's powers: to monitor the action of the Government, to evaluate public policies. Its composition, bringing together and involving Parliament, the executive and the judiciary, is particularly justified in the fight against terrorism. Finally, the last amendment that our group will support concerns section 3 of the bill, on the surveillance of persons suspected of belonging to the terrorist movement. Its purpose is not to discuss the content of the measures proposed by the bill, as I have said on several occasions. These take place in the policy of preventing terrorist activities, supported by our party. They are proportionate, and we found the right cursor between security and freedom. Our reservations relate to the balance of our institutions: the provisions of the draft law on individual supervisory measures move, to the detriment of the judicial authority and to the benefit of the executive, the boundaries which, traditionally, mark in France the separation between the different powers of the Republic. The power to impose surveillance measures on suspected persons is entrusted to the Minister of the Interior and not to the judicial authority. These are binding provisions, which can go so far as to have to present themselves to the police once a day. They are undoubtedly restrictive of one of the most fundamental individual freedoms: that of going and coming. However, article 66 of our Constitution makes the judicial authority the guardian of individual freedom. In this regard, it complies with the requirements of the constitutional law of 3 June 1958, which brought the counterseing of the then President of the Council, Charles de Gaulle, and of the keeper of the seals, Michel Debré, which expressly states that the judicial authority shall ensure "respect for the essential freedoms as defined by the Declaration of Human Rights". The freedom to go and come is clearly part of it. Our group is therefore in favour of an amendment to reintroduce the judicial judge's intervention in the operative part of the bill. For the sake of greater efficiency and accountability, we wanted to retain the original decision to the Minister of the Interior, under the control of the administrative judge. But the judicial authority must then decide on its own renewal. I will not enter into a technical discussion on the scope of article 66 of the Constitution, by opposing the text of the Constitution itself to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. I simply observe the tendency of almost thirty years ago to restrict the intervention of the judicial authority in favour of the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u153	Of course, but in this case we must not defend this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u154	I have in mind the programme which the President of the Republic submitted to the French: "Assemble the place of the judicial authority in the institutions". We would like the Government not to derogate from that announcement. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] The judicial authority is, like all of us in this House, mobilized to respond to the security challenge posed by the terrorist threat. Our institutions must function together and in mutual trust. I stress this last point because it is essential. It is through national unity that we will emerge from the challenge we face today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u155	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u156	Madam President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, this week we are debating a fundamental bill, not only because it is now indispensable, although it can be enriched – I will have the opportunity to return to it in a few moments – but above all because, for the first time, measures which, a few years ago, would have been considered exceptional, will enter the common law. We have been living under a state of emergency for almost two years. In the aftermath of the attacks of 13 November 2015, it was absolutely necessary to allow the public authorities to take derogatory measures in order to be able to face the terrorist threat immediately. This need has unfortunately been reinforced by the Nice bombing, the 86 deaths and the 458 injuries which it caused, not to mention, of course, the trauma experienced by the victims' relatives and by all those who witnessed this barbarity and for whom I have a special thought. I also have a grateful thought for those heroes of everyday life who risk their lives every day for their fellow citizens. I am thinking of military personnel, gendarmes, national and municipal police officers, professional and volunteer firefighters and health care personnel. Let us not forget that these men and women are mobilized in the service of France, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to express our gratitude and pride to them. The state of emergency has demonstrated its effectiveness, particularly in the first few months, by allowing dozens of attacks to be foiled and by disrupting most terrorist networks. But once the surprise effect has passed, these networks have been able to adapt and its effectiveness has been declining since then. In the last six months, and in comparison with the first six months, there have been three to ten times less administrative searches, house arrest and residence bans, while the threat has never been so strong – sadly attests to the recent events that could not be avoided: on March 18 at Orly airport, on April 20 and June 19 on Champs-Élysées Avenue, on June 16 on the courtyard of Notre Dame Cathedral, or on August 9 against soldiers in Levallois-Perret. Of course, the measures provided for by the state of emergency still allow attacks to fail. As you said, minister: twelve have already been defeated since the beginning of the year thanks to all the forces that work daily for the safety of our fellow citizens, in an increasingly difficult context. Twenty-two months after his statement, and as his sixth extension comes to an end, the state of emergency is in contrast. We should not hope for more, since it is above all a regime of exception, of reaction, intended for short-term actions, while the terrorist threat is no longer only imminent: it has become permanent. In order to combat terrorism effectively and for the long term, our legislation therefore needs effective tools, which are regulated by ordinary law. It was then essential to prepare for the exit from the state of emergency by proposing a law to equip the State with new instruments to prevent and combat terrorism. Our group welcomes this initiative of the Government. We agree: this text is in the right direction. Nevertheless, the Constructive Group regrets the lack of measures to enable mayors to implement effective solutions against terrorism at the local level. We also regret the lack of proposals to give our law enforcement forces greater room for manoeuvre. This bill will not be unanimous in our ranks. It is not a question of being right or wrong, nor of arguing that one belongs to the majority or the opposition. As long as the safety of our fellow citizens is at stake, partisan divisions have no place in this House. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our responsibility is collective. Last July, our honourable senators were able to debate this bill calmly and have succeeded in enriching it. Whatever our political sensitivities, it is now up to us to follow the same path, to appeal to our openness and to hear each of the arguments that will be defended. As since the beginning of the legislature and even more so on the occasion of the consideration of this bill, the Constructive Group has only two key words: responsibility and proposal. However, we believe that this text does not go far enough. We shall therefore submit to your vote several amendments which, we hope, will receive your approval as they meet the expectations of those who are the first to be affected by terrorism: law enforcement, families of victims, religious leaders, associations or elected local officials. For example, the aim is to allow the use of facial recognition for the sole purpose of preventing terrorism. This technique, which has already been used in several countries, has largely proved its effectiveness. It would be unreasonable to do so, particularly within the scope of protection provided for in the text. It is also a matter of penalising an indecent practice, unfortunately increasingly frequent, namely the dissemination of images showing the victims of attacks and which, years after these tragedies, continue to haunt bereaved families. Other amendments will aim to enable mayors to obtain information on individuals residing in their communes who are registered for radicalisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u158	It seems to us common sense to provide the same possibility for employers in sensitive areas about those of their employees who would pose a threat to safety. It would also be welcome to have regular parliamentary scrutiny of the measures that will be taken under this bill, and I am sure that, on all sides of this House, this requirement that will only strengthen our rule of law is shared. This text, provided that it is enriched with ambitious proposals, in line with the expectations of our citizens and our law enforcement agencies, would enable our country to organize itself more effectively in the fight against terrorism. We will also need to rapidly deploy a comprehensive response, bringing together all actors in defence, foreign affairs and diplomacy, education, health and culture. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on some benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, if there is one subject that must bring us all together, whatever our values and our opinions, our competences or our areas of intervention, it is this one. Since the terrorist threat is common, our response must be common.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u159	Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u160	Madam President, Minister of State, rapporteur, this has already been recalled, our country has been hit by several terrorist acts in recent years, from the killings of Toulouse and Montauban in March 2012 to the stabbing attack against a soldier of Operation Sentinel at the Châtelet metro station on 15 September. The context we know today is therefore unprecedented: the terrorist threat is at a high level, but it is also lasting. In the face of this threat, the previous majority has assumed their responsibilities. On the one hand, several laws have strengthened the permanent legal means used by our services and the judiciary to detect and suppress terrorist threats. I am thinking, for example, of the law of 21 December 2012 on security and the fight against terrorism, the law of 24 July 2015 on terrorism, or the law of 3 June 2016. On the other hand, since the attacks of 13 November 2015, the state of emergency has been declared and extended six times, the last of which by our assembly in July. These decisions have led to the defeat of many terrorist projects on our soil. According to your comments, Minister, there have been at least twelve of these foiled projects since the beginning of the year. In his speech before the Congress on 3 July, the President of the Republic announced his willingness to see the end of the state of emergency at the end of the sixth phase of the state of emergency. Following the latter, the state of emergency will have had its longest period of application since its creation by the Act of 3 April 1955. This initiative is moving in the right direction. It must be recalled that the state of emergency is intended to be a temporary regime, activated only in exceptional circumstances in order to face an imminent danger and justify, for this reason and for a limited period of time, strengthening the powers entrusted to the administrative authority in order to guarantee public order and security, by limiting in a proportionate manner the exercise of certain public freedoms. As I said, the terrorist threat has taken on a lasting character. It is therefore becoming necessary to provide the State with new permanent instruments for preventing and combating terrorism, by reserving the tools of a state of emergency to these exceptional situations. This bill, which strengthens internal security and the fight against terrorism, is therefore intended to incorporate into our common law provisions inspired by the state of emergency for the sole purpose of preventing acts of terrorism. It also includes measures to better prevent acts of terrorism and serious organized crime. Our group is not opposed to this text, provided that certain safeguards are adopted, in line with those voted by the Senate or by the Law Committee of our Assembly. I am thinking, for example, of the integration of the homes of journalists and lawyers within the perimeter of the places prohibited from carrying out searches under Article 4. Despite this, we still have to remember that while the requirements for the protection of public order are a priority in the current context, they must nevertheless be reconciled with the preservation of individual freedoms. We must not give in to terrorists, but we must not give in to any of our freedoms, which are part of our way of life and are the targets of their attacks. I was talking about guarding a moment ago: Article 4 bis is one of them and it is important to us. Introduced by the Senate, it initially gave an experimental character, until 31 December 2021, to the measures provided for in Article 3, on individual administrative control and surveillance measures, and Article 4, on home visits and seizures. In the commission of laws, it was reported that this experiment would rather end on 31 December 2020, in order to prevent the debate on the possible sustainability of the two articles from parasitizing the beginning of the presidential campaign of 2022. Article 4 bis also provides that the Government shall submit to Parliament annually a detailed report on the implementation of these provisions. I make it clear that this parliamentary scrutiny is, in our view, largely inadequate. As we have pointed out in committee, the incorporation into our common law of provisions inspired by the state of emergency must be accompanied by the maintenance of parliamentary scrutiny in the context of the application of the same state of emergency. I would like to briefly recall the origin of this parliamentary scrutiny. At the time of the first extension of the state of emergency, the then parliamentary majority had inserted an article 4-1 into the 1955 law stating: "The National Assembly and the Senate shall be informed without delay of the measures taken by the Government during the state of emergency. They may require further information in the context of the monitoring and evaluation of these measures. This control was reinforced, again on the initiative of the then parliamentary majority, by the Act of 21 July 2016, which supplemented Article 4(1) by obliging the administrative authorities to transmit without delay to Parliament copies of the acts taken in the context of the state of emergency. We want this control to be maintained for sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the bill. I know that some believe that this control would ignore the principle of separation of powers. I think this argument is not working, for three reasons. Firstly, the obligation for the administrative authorities to transmit to Parliament copies of the acts taken under these articles is more a matter of cooperation of powers than a constraint. Secondly, there is no interference in the exercise of the power of judges in the act of judging, in the sense or content of decisions, since it is only a matter of maintaining an information system. Finally, and most importantly, this amendment is only intended to enable Parliament to carry out its constitutional mandate. Without this parliamentary oversight, we would not be able to vote on this bill. In addition, further safeguards must be provided to this text. In Article 1, for example, we would like to see the reasoned order of the Prefect for the establishment of a protective perimeter specifying "the particular circumstances which constitute a risk to the safety of persons and property" and that all officers involved in police checks should be subject to the obligations of the code of ethics of the national police and gendarmerie. We would like to see two amendments to Article 10 to make it easier to check identity in our border areas. First of all, we want the administrative authority to be able to justify the reasons why these controls are being put in place and to notify the prosecutor of the initiation of these measures. Furthermore, we hope that the debate will allow any form of doubt as to a possible legitimization of control in the face of this article to be removed. Indeed, a doubt has arisen about the drafting and objectives of this article; it is essential to lift it. In summary and in conclusion, our group is approaching this discussion in a vigilant but constructive state of mind. You know, Minister, the conditions under which a rally can take place around this text. I count on you to measure the importance of it, so that it is effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u161	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u162	Finally serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u163	Madam President, Mr Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to share with you a thought for the victims, their loved ones, but also for the police, the gendarmes, the magistrates who contribute day and night to our safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u165	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u166	The objective we all share is to find an effective response to prevent terrorist acts and the fear they spread. But your project does not respond to it. Moreover, the trade unions of magistrates, all human rights associations, legal specialists, the Defender of Rights himself – Jacques Toubon – are all hostile to this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u167	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u168	Why? Because this text is the result of a single point of view, that of a part of the police and intelligence services.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u169	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u170	You are proposing a new text without any record of the existing mechanisms, even though this legislative overbidding has not proved its effectiveness in the fight against terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u171	It's even the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u172	Before proceeding with my argument, I would like to remind you of a jupiterian sentence delivered on 3 July 2017 in Versailles: "The criminal code as it is, the powers of magistrates as they are, can, if the system is well ordered, well organized, allow us to destroy our opponents. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u173	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u174	In fact, we could have debated how to order properly, how to organize the system properly; We could have had a real debate on the question of means, on the question of methods,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u175	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u176	...on the issue of reorganisation of services, but also on the issue of prevention. None of this is included in the text. In reality, unfortunately, no law will prevent the commission of such acts. But the legitimate reaction must not be reduced to a piecemeal view of this problem. In the end, it is a change in the nature of our regime that you are proposing, Minister, by bringing us into an arbitrary and discriminatory "democraty".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u177	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u178	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u179	This word is not yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u180	This law is liberticide and counterproductive. Why? First of all, because the Code of Criminal Procedure – that is, the ordinary law – contains all that is necessary to prevent terrorist acts and also provides the minimum guarantees of a rule of law, namely the rights of defence and the principle of security – on the merits, which is contained in the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, i.e. the spirit of the Republic. However, this text presents the same philosophy as that of the state of emergency: it is a question of allowing the prefects, the police, therefore the minister of the interior, to assign to residence, to close places of worship and to search without independent control of the justice – except with the introduction of the judge of freedoms and detention, a true alibi judge in the text. What is the difference between the current common law and what is proposed in this project? We actually move from the era of proof to the era of suspicion because what are "serious reasons to think that" in relation to the current law, to the common law, which specifically enumerate the facts that constitute the preparation of a terrorist act – and they are already very broad? You are not attached to acts, but to fantasized dangerousness. Indeed, with the current Code of Criminal Procedure, common law, one can already act in the context of a preliminary judicial investigation...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u181	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u182	...and, in addition, with the supervision of an independent judge. But then, why this text? Are you afraid of the judge? Is it a text of distrust of justice? So what? You're going to search everyone who's got a beard too long, a djellaba, and not the right book in their bag? Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u183	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u184	Who will be subject to these provisions if they are not our Muslim compatriots? They'll be the suspects, and you know it as well as I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u185	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u186	It is like the closure of places of worship: it is already possible to act within the framework of the common law. So why add an additional measure, if not to promote amalgams? Recall that with the state of emergency, there were more than 4,300 administrative searches but only 23 investigations opened for terrorism, i.e. 0.5% "efficiency". I will not go back here to the house arrest of environmental activists during COP21.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u187	They're afraid of the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u188	With these methods, hatred has been nurtured; with these methods, resentments have been created; With these methods, some have been radicalised against the police institution and thus against the Republic. The fact that we are the country of Europe that has the most volunteers to go to jihad does not lead you to question yourself? What is being done in this area for prevention, which is largely absent from this text? And to top it all off, you offer us two legislative riders. (Laughter and exclamations on certain REM benches.)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u189	It's the hospital that doesn't care about charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u190	First of all, security perimeters. You present this measure to us as indispensable, especially for major events such as the Lille braderie, which has been mentioned on many occasions in our committee work. However, none of the provisions of the state of emergency was activated to set up security perimeters during the warehousing: everything was done with the provisions of the common law, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u191	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u192	So why this article, if not to insidiously introduce the privatisation of the police with private security agents who are granted public service prerogatives?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u193	Yes! That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u194	Second rider: hunting migrants, with article 10, where one takes advantage of it to extend the control perimeters.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u195	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u196	Recall that the vast majority of murderers were French nationals. These anti-migrant provisions have nothing to do with a counter-terrorism law. Watch out for Trump amalgams! So here we are in the "democraty", this silent shift from democracy to dictatorship.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u197	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u198	Yet we have proposals to prevent the commission of terrorist acts. Jupiter said in a big interview at the Point: "That is why our response to terrorism can only be multiple, in order to include all these dimensions. It must be safe, economic, cultural and educational at the same time. That's almost the point. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u199	That's what we did!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u200	Indeed, as far as security is concerned, we have seen the answer, but for economics, culture and education, we have mainly seen Mr. Darmanin's cynical budget cuts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u201	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u202	Reasonable and serious proposals exist. We must have the political courage to defend them: human resources must be strengthened within the framework of the existing common law – we must also strengthen the control of goods by hiring customs officers, but this implies getting out of the dogma of free trade. With regard to the human resources of intelligence, it was imperative to increase the number of judicial police officers to conduct investigations under the supervision of a magistrate. We must also increase the means of justice: everyone tells us! Twelve judges to fight terrorist acts in a country like France, is that enough?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u203	Of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u204	Twelve judges! There is a need to tackle terrorist financing channels,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u205	Lafarge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u206	...so tax havens. The geopolitical issue must also be addressed by drawing up a blacklist of countries that directly or indirectly finance terrorism and prohibiting them from taking ownership of companies or sports clubs in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u207	Paris Saint-Germain!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u208	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We must be ruthless with the companies that help terrorist organizations. It is intolerable to see Lafarge trucks used for the work of the Court of Honour of our National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u209	I have asked that its leaders be heard by the Committee on Economic Affairs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u210	Tax and economic cooperation with these countries and companies must cease immediately. We must be an independent peace force, under the mandate of the United Nations. We need to discuss with everyone to find solutions because, according to the Director General of External Security himself, the number of volunteers for jihad has decreased in proportion to the decline in Daesh's positions there.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u211	But then, in your opinion, what can we do? Nothing?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u212	If we need a state of emergency, ultimately, it's to strengthen all public services, to strengthen republican antibodies. With this project of "democrature",...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u213	Oh! The naughty word!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u214	... you will give right to our enemies, you will be France that abdicates. However, we must not give up an inch of ground to terrorists, who are precisely waiting for our democratic and republican regime to be renounced. We are France – France that resists, over and over again. Then, come and defend with us, without trembling, with firmness, the ideas of the Enlightenment and the principles of the French Revolution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u215	To Caracas too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u216	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ... which have made France an indivisible, secular, democratic and social republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u217	Bravo! At last, an understandable speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u218	[[Smile]] We must appoint this man to the Ministry of the Interior!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u219	His time will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u220	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u221	Madam President, Minister, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, our country has been living under a state of emergency since the terrible attacks of 13 November 2015 in Paris and Saint-Denis. At that time, it was a matter of taking the necessary measures with great speed to prevent any further terrorist act and to arrest the perpetrators of the attacks. We had voted for a state of emergency but we had been very clear: we refused any extension beyond three months, not by ideological or dogmatic posture, but because everyone, especially the professionals of security and justice, agreed that the effectiveness of a state of emergency regime was proven in the first few weeks of its establishment but that it no longer proved its worth beyond. That is why we have opposed successive extensions. For almost two years, we have been alerting us to the risk of this state of emergency being trivialized, of this "permanent state of emergency". As we know, the terrorist threat is high and lasting. It is precisely in troubled times that we must not give in to fear, undermine our democratic principles, affect the balance of power, or restrict our individual rights and freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u222	And we have to hit the traitors!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u223	Let us not give an inch of our rule of law and democracy to our enemies, even though that is precisely their purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u224	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u225	We say this with all the more conviction that Hubert Wulfranc, as mayor of Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray and myself, elected from Saint-Denis – both today spokeswoman of the GDR group for this law – were directly confronted with the attacks. We also had to deal with their consequences by constantly ensuring the unity of the local community when others struggled to divide it. We have worked and continue to do so, together with all the State services, to conjure up and prevent the risks of any further attack. We want to get out of the state of emergency and return strictly to ordinary law because these emergency measures are out of hand, as several parliamentary reports have shown perfectly. The President of the Republic himself, on 13 June, at the end of his meeting with the President of the European Court of Human Rights, stated: "The objective for France today is to leave the state of emergency, which does not allow for a sufficiently effective fight against terrorism. » On 3 July, in his speech to the Parliament meeting in Versailles, the President of the Republic made himself more precise, affirming that he would restore "the freedoms of the French by lifting the state of emergency in the autumn, because these freedoms are the condition for the existence of a strong democracy". And he continued, with these words that Ugo Bernalicis has already recalled: "The criminal code, as it is, the powers of the magistrates, as they are, can, if the system is well-ordered, allow us to destroy our opponents. We agree with that, but unfortunately the bill before us is not going in that direction and is at least ambiguous. The aim here is not to restore the regular functioning of the institutions, but to perpetuate preventive measures, ordered on the basis of mere suspicions, restricting freedoms, decided by the administrative authority and deprived, for the most part, of the supervision of the judicial judge. The "controlled" exit from the state of emergency is finally a trompe l'oeil exit, a false exit. This bill has been criticized or even denounced by almost all human rights associations, by many experts, by international organizations, by independent administrative authorities, and by most of the judiciary. Unfortunately, these opinions have again been ignored. We deeply regret the fact that the Law Commission has substantially re-established the Government's original bill, although the Senate had narrowed its scope and had better supervised it. As currently drafted, the text will now allow the prefects and the minister of the interior to order administrative searches, house arrest and closures of places of worship and to establish "security perimeters" at events – within which the rules of control will certainly be relaxed. The new tightening of the repressive and administrative arsenal comes at a time when our legislation on this subject is already substantial and no comprehensive and detailed assessment of the effectiveness of the many "anti-terrorist" laws adopted during the previous five-year period has been drawn up – this has already been said. So, do we have to go ever further in this repressive logic? We do not think so, especially since essential aspects of the fight against terrorism are absent from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u226	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u227	[["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Your bill does not say anything and does not include anything about prevention; It says nothing and does not foresee anything about the financing of terrorism and money laundering...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u228	How complacency with the culprits!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u229	...and the means granted to our police and our justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u231	It does not say anything or provide for anything, at last, about the establishment of effective solidarity with the victims of terrorism in our country. In terms of means – that's true in many areas, but even more so in terms of security – the equation of "doing more with less" is simply impossible. We live in a country where many police stations and courts are exsangued. We are paying and will continue to pay very dearly for the reform of the intelligence services initiated in 2008 by Nicolas Sarkozy, which led to the virtual disappearance of territorial intelligence. By focusing everything on technicality rather than on the human and the field, we have put ourselves in great difficulty. I have in mind, in my constituency of Seine-Saint-Denis, many specific, concrete and very eloquent examples that show how our intelligence services have seen their capacity for action diminish. In addition, the understaffing in the police stations and the suppression of the community police, which, although not an intelligence police, was a valuable sensor of the ground, including weak signals. I would now like to refer to the victims, to whom I would like to address a particular thought. The direct and indirect victims of the attacks now number thousands in our country. Each State has a duty to accompany the victims and to contribute to reparation for the harm they have suffered. But the victims of terrorism, their families and the associations that represent them, such as the association 13 November 2015 Fraternity and Truth, which I meet very regularly, have not received much more, so far, than words of support and compassion. Their care and compensation are now both very slow and incomplete. The Government has even abolished the State Secretariat for Victim Assistance and it took the protest of the victims' associations, which I myself relayed here, to finally appoint, in August, an inter-ministerial delegate for victim assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u232	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u233	Not only does this reform remain silent on all these essential issues, but it points the finger at some of our fellow citizens and thereby weakens the national cohesion which makes it possible to bind the country in the trials. I regret, while Article 2 introduces provisions on places of worship, that the representatives of the main cults have not had the opportunity to be heard by the Law Committee. No, the behaviour of a few cannot result in the punishment of an entire group, of an entire community, unless one thinks that one is collectively presumed guilty. And then, why specifically mention places of worship, when we know that they have only a marginal place in the census of places of embrigadement? Why not mention, in the same logic, cybercafés, sports clubs or even, why not, building halls? In the end, this bill, which is supposed to organize an exit from a controlled state of emergency, establishes, in the emergency, a state of emergency that is light, but permanent. We refuse this true false exit. The fight against terrorism must be effective, while preserving our rights and restoring the great sovereign services of the State and its means of action. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Jean Jaurès said, in the same speech you mentioned earlier, Minister of State: "The Republic is a great act of confidence" – an act of confidence in the strength of its principles. It is in the name of their confidence in our Republic that the Members of the GDR Group will refuse to give a centimeter of our rule of law, democracy and freedoms to the enemies of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u234	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u235	Madam President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, on 13 November 2015, when the Bataclan attacks have just occurred, the state of emergency is promulgated. That was twenty-three months ago. Since then, more attacks have taken place in Magnanville, Nice, Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray and the Champs-Élysées – to name but a few. The state of emergency, as we can see, is unfortunately not infallible. The French are, however, mostly attached to it and it would therefore be simple to surf this wave and to build in solution this provision, whose exceptional character makes the French think that the maximum is undertaken. It would be simple, but it wouldn't be responsible. It would not be responsible for making it appear that the state of emergency is infallible, even though we have 226 dead and more than 550 wounded; it would not be responsible for denying that its derogatory measures can cause an abusive deprivation of liberty; Finally, it would not be responsible for evacuating the consequences of the state of emergency on the social link and on the image of France in the world, with the repercussions it may have on foreign investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u236	Cartoons!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u237	The Islamic State is now suffering heavy losses as a result of military action. In these circumstances, we might think that the threat is decreasing and that there is no need for specific means to combat it. The reality is quite different. The purpose of the terrorists is clear: to adapt, mute and feed on our own flaws. This endogenous terrorism, which we were so much told about at the hearings, is not the result of chance; This is one of the most devious means used by the Islamic State. Without being able to win outside, he tries to take it from the inside, transforming some of our fellow citizens into terrorists in a few weeks and teaching them, through simple tutorials, to make TATP. The question before us today is simple to state, but difficult to solve: how can we win against terrorism? First, the French must be given high security, but not at the expense of their freedoms. Nothing is worse than States that want to protect us from ourselves. However, the demand for freedom must not blind us or bind our hands. And what about the use of coarse expressions, which rhyme with "posture", or even with "swelling" of the verb? We must act courageously and responsibly. That is the whole purpose of the bill that you are asking us, Minister of State, to debate today. The REM Group discussed this with a view to ensuring that the necessary balance between efficiency and guarantee of freedoms is respected. Not all of them are black or white, and some of those who denounce this balance do not realize that they caricature themselves. Within the scope of protection, the consent of persons or the presence of a judicial police officer are for us strong guarantees of freedoms. The same applies to the limitation to six months of the closure of places of worship or to one year of the more restrictive measures provided for in Article 3, or to our proposal to reduce by one year, i.e. to 2020, the period for the testing of Articles 3 and 4. In view of the operational nature of these measures, the majority group also wished to remove the concept of immediate approach within the scope of the protection perimeters. In the same spirit, we have added, with regard to the least restrictive measures in article 3, the possibility of prohibiting an individual from appearing in a particular place. Furthermore, in order to better protect our security forces, the majority group also wanted the police to be able to identify themselves by their registration number, rather than by their last name. Finally, we have removed the "public utility" of deradicalization associations, in order to avoid the risk of nullity. Madam President, the Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, the REM Group wanted to examine your text by being lucid in the face of the threat, without giving in to fear. We are convinced that we will not fight terrorism unless we are able to name it, look it coldly in our eyes and provide ourselves with the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u238	Words!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u239	But we are also convinced that we will not fight jihadism and extremism of all kinds if we are not able to model our democracy and our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u240	That's not what you're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u241	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] The security auction that would flatter instincts has never proved its worth in the face of terrorism and is in fact only the footstool of the Islamic State. Neither denial nor outrage, but on the contrary courage and responsibility, this is the path that the Republic on its way intends to take.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u242	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u243	Madam President, the Minister of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteur, the threat that Islamist terrorism poses to our country is high, very high, as we all know. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Is it necessary to recall the numbers? Between 2013 and 2016, France experienced no less than ten attacks, four attempts and twenty-eight plans of attacks. France is clearly the country most targeted by Islamist terrorism. You yourself, Minister of State, regularly note that France is a "privileged" target of jihadism, and you often recall that no fewer than twelve attacks have been foiled since the beginning of this year. Let our security forces be thanked for this; their professionalism and work are recognized by national representation. We assure them of our gratitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u245	At your hearing by the Law Committee on 12 September, you insisted, Minister of State, on the need to demonstrate our unity in the face of those who wish to destroy the cohesion of our country, and you therefore called for the fight against terrorism "together". This is indeed the spirit of the Members of the Republican Group: to do a useful work to combat Islamist terrorism, to protect the lives of our compatriots and to combine our forces to ensure the security and protection of the French. Since 14 November 2015, France has been living under the regime of a state of emergency. The Republican Group voted in favour of all the extensions, including the most recent one, that of July.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u246	That's not our case!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u247	We have also worked, amended and approved domestic security and intelligence legislation in the previous legislature. We have done so, because these laws seem to us to be moving in the right direction and helping to increase the level of protection of our country, while adapting its legislative arsenal to the evolution of the terrorist threat. This work to adapt the legislative arsenal was also carried out in a state of emergency. But it seems to us that, for the first time since 2015, our protection tools will be weakened by the project you are proposing. The balance between the security of the French on the one hand and the preservation of individual freedoms on the other – this balance must seem precarious and fragile to you, since you have rejected almost all the amendments defended by the Members of the Group of the European People's Party. The Republicans in the Law Committee – in fact, in our view, is a weakening of our legal arsenal of protection. A few examples: in the matter of house arrest, which will no longer be called so, the system of administrative control and supervision that you propose to us seems vague, far too vague. The question of the specific geographical scope, which should not be less than the municipality, is a problem. Similarly for administrative searches, which should now be called "visits and seizures": we all know that they have decreased in volume since the first phase of the state of emergency, as the effect "kick in the anthill" has, of course, faded; But if a single administrative search were to prevent a single mass terrorist attack, it would, in our view, be very useful. Finally, as far as the closure of places of worship is concerned, the six-month deadline seems inappropriate. I will not go back to the many proposals to strengthen our legal arsenal that we will make to you throughout the parliamentary debate that is beginning today. I would simply like to mention at this stage that the adaptation of our legal arsenal to the constant changes in the terrorist threat, first of all exogenous, and now, as we see it, much more endogenous, must of course be accompanied by an important budgetary effort on the part of the State in order to increase human and operational resources. We must also work towards a capacitar leap, particularly in the area of judicial police and data decryption. It should be noted that almost 80 per cent of the data on which it is possible to work are currently encrypted, making it very difficult to collect useful information. This bill seems to us to be clearly insufficient in this area. Considerable technological progress is, as we know, limited to the capacity of investigative techniques. There is also the question of the means of action of the public authorities, the State and the judiciary vis-à-vis the giants of the electronic communications sector. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In short, Minister of State, it is with the protection and strengthening of real security that you can bring to the French that we will ultimately judge this bill. We call for a responsible and respectful debate. We approach it with vigilance and determination. We have a common republican imperative: to protect the French nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u248	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u249	Madam President, the Minister of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to have a thought for the victims of the attacks and their relatives and to express our gratitude to the police, gendarmerie, intelligence and defence services, which contribute to our security by taking great risks. When a state is attacked, it defends itself. The state of emergency unanimously voted following the meeting of the Congress in Versailles, as well as its constitutionalization announced at the time by the President of the Republic, met a political and legal need. This state of emergency has been extended, as has been said, six times, until President Macron's commitment to lift it on November 1, 2017. We had argued as early as 2016, on the basis of excellent reports of the National Assembly prepared under parliamentary scrutiny, that the state of emergency had fulfilled its function and that it should be terminated. That is the main purpose of this bill. What brings us together today is our determination to combat terrorism effectively, by retaining the legal and material means of the police, gendarmerie and intelligence forces, while respecting, of course, the individual freedoms guaranteed by our rule of law. I will not mention the clauses in the bill: it is in the detailed examination of the amendments that we can work on. I will make three separate remarks about the law and its contours. Firstly, if the state of emergency is to be put an end to, it is essential to plan its constitutionalization. We have seen the possible risks of excess here in the debate for its adoption. The emergency regimes constituted by the full powers provided for in article 16 and the state of siege provided for in article 36 of the Constitution are both constitutionalized. It would be dangerous and incomprehensible to keep the state of emergency out of the basic law – which constitutes our social pact – while it was the only emergency regime usable and adapted to the situation in which we were in. This will allow us to include in it the strict control of the National Assembly, which must give its consent to the extension of the state of emergency not only upstream, but also downstream, having the capacity to withdraw from the executive power at any time the benefit of the state of emergency if circumstances no longer warrant it. This monitoring could also be usefully complemented by field analysis carried out by Members of Parliament with prosecutors and prefects. Some of us have done so in recent years. Secondly, I recall, as some have already done, President Macron's words at the Congress of July 3, 2017: "The criminal code as it is, the powers of magistrates as they are, can, if the system is well ordered, well organized, allow us to destroy our opponents. On the other hand, giving the administration unlimited powers over people's lives, without any discrimination, makes no sense, either in terms of principles or in terms of efficiency. » I share this analysis and allow myself to express here, in my personal capacity, a doubt about the relevance of Articles 3 and 4, which amplify, in the ordinary law, the power of the administrative police in matters of prevention and devote suspicion as a means of triggering heavy measures from the point of view of personal freedom without certainty as to the expected operational benefit. Parliamentary reports on the state of emergency and their detailed analysis of house arrest and renamed searches permit this observation. Like previous laws, this text is part of a movement that places the fight against terrorism outside the control of the judicial authority. The stakes are great. However, the citizens are asking us to do everything possible to prevent the risk of attacks. Therefore, to the benefit of the doubt and because your task is immense, Minister of State, we will not ask for the deletion of these articles. However, in return for the exorbitant nature of these provisions concerning the judicial organisation, we will ask for the continuation of parliamentary scrutiny of the same nature as that which we set up in 2015, and not the submission of an annual report, as I have read. This control is justified – we talked about it. Thirdly, to quote Jean-Jacques Urvoas, a few articles in this text belong to the category of "drawer bottoms". I am thinking in particular of Article 10, which is particularly talkative, which reflects the difficulty encountered in maintaining the controls as they are planned without incurring the censorship of the Constitutional Council. This article would, in my view, deserve to be rewritten. It combines, without any surprise, the law of foreigners, crime and the fight against terrorism, which will make the work of the judge very difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u251	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u252	Madam President, the Minister of State, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the bill that strengthens internal security and the fight against terrorism. It is a fundamental text for the French. That is why I really regret that part of the opposition is making criticisms that are part of postures or clichés and that it refuses to be part of a real substantive debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u253	Come on, come on...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u254	For my part, I want to explain to you why, rather than extending the state of emergency again or coming out of it without any net, The Republic on the move takes its responsibilities and chooses to legislate otherwise, with this text. Firstly, because there is no question of getting used to an exceptional regime which, as we know, is running out of steam. The framework of the state of emergency, namely the 1955 Act, is no longer in a position to respond effectively to the fight against terrorism, which, as we know, has changed in recent years, and even more so in recent months. To prevent a state of emergency from becoming permanent, so that it remains what it is, that is, an exception to the law, it is necessary to get out of it. This is the first purpose of this bill. But, because the situation in France is serious and the threat, which remains high, will persist for a long time, according to all experts, we must be able to respond to it with appropriate measures, that is, measures that do not make us powerless in the fight against terrorism and which, at the same time, do not weaken our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u255	That's not what lawyers say!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u256	This is the reality that we face, with courage and responsibility, as my colleague Marie Guévenoux reminded us. In fact, I heard some speak to our fellow citizens by saying that the bill would violate their freedoms without any form of nuance. This attitude is not up to the stakes. Have you wondered, at least, what the French want? They want to live free, of course, but not just: they want to live safe. Our role is to provide them with all the security they need so that they can live free. Combating terrorism is precisely our fight to perpetuate the freedom of our country. That is the objective that the majority is pursuing, and that is why we are not going to a hidden state of emergency or a degraded state of emergency. What I mean is that there is no choice between freedom and security, we must ensure both. Of course, it is complicated and it raises a number of legitimate questions: how can the exception not become the law? How to articulate the powers of the administrative judge and the judicial judge? How can we avoid the excesses of controls that are still reinforced? This is all the work we have done so far and will continue in the Chamber over the next few days. It has allowed us to achieve a satisfactory form of balance, including the four main measures introduced by this bill. The first of these is the perimeter of protection. It will in fact continue to organize festive, cultural and sporting events of all kinds, while ensuring the safety of those who go there; This is an example of successful conciliation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u257	With what means?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u258	The second is the closure of places of worship. First, its application will be limited in time. Secondly, it will only apply after the judge for interim measures, who has been brought before the President of the association concerned within a short period of 48 hours, has ruled. This is also a measure with protection. The following two provisions, home visits and individual surveillance measures, are more controversial because they will effectively limit individual freedom. They will occupy a large part of our debates. It is clear from all our hearings that these measures are necessary, indispensable...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u259	...in a judicial framework!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u260	They are so if they are likely to defeat plans for attacks, in cases where, because the intelligence at the origin of the alert is kept secret, although, of course, legal proceedings are not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u261	That's not true! They're possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u262	That is why we are keeping them in the device. The home visit, because it is intrusive, will be supervised and will require the authorization of the judge of freedoms and detention, which constitutes a major guarantee of the rights of the defence. The surveillance measure is a restrictive measure of freedom. As such, she will naturally report to the administrative judge. The judge of freedoms and detention has no place in this system: introducing it would lead to unnecessary tension between the two orders, administrative and judicial, while we are seeking precisely to coordinate them. However, as an effective guarantee, we propose that the application of this measure be limited to one year. In addition, we would like to introduce a ban on the appearance, much less binding, that can be implemented in place of the broader surveillance measure. Aware of the difficulties that might arise from certain measures, we will propose to reduce to 2020 the date on which we can take stock. Under the leadership of the rapporteur and inspired by the idea of the New Left Group, we will also propose a form of Parliament's control over the forthcoming arrangements. In conclusion, I agree with the frank words you made in committee, Minister of State: "I am not sure that with this text there will be no more terrorist attacks, but I am sure that, if it were not adopted, there would be some. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u263	Lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u264	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The usefulness of this text is clearly justified by this argument alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we finish hearing the speakers in the general debate, concluding at around 20.20 p.m. The Government will respond at the beginning of tonight's session. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u266	Madam President, Minister, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, ladies and gentlemen, France faces a violent danger: Islamism. An enemy, once external and circumscribed by borders, has insinuated itself in the heart of our metropolises and villages. This enemy is rooted in the heart of our homeland, pampered as electoral clientele, instrumentalized by the propagators of self-hate, left free to open Salafist mosques and madrasas in the land of Saint Louis. Currently, terrorist groups in Iraq, Syria, Mali or elsewhere are using this national loophole to reach our social bodies and symbols. Their unbearable actions could spread because of geopolitical mistakes made during the previous five-year period. We should not have destroyed Libya; We should not have fed the Islamist factions of the Syrian rebellion; We should not have locked our Eastern trade in the gulf trap. On all this, Christians in the East, like other minorities, have been alerting us for a long time. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] However, this geopolitical situation cannot summarize the cause of the increase in attacks on our soil. The first cause of this resurgence of attacks is the confrontation at the heart of our society of models of civilization that cannot coexist. The financial appetite of the major groups, which have sought to globalize the labour factor by imposing massive immigration on our people, has resulted in a gradual replacement of civilization in certain parts of the territory and in the spread of political Islamism in metropolis and overseas. However, your text does not say anything about this: a few mischievous things about Schengen, some adjustments in controls, but nothing about the monitoring of migrants, nothing about the closure of Salafist mosques, nothing about anti-Christian, anti-French, and anti-Jewish preaching in some cellars, and nothing about the Islamist struggle against French traditions. It is this rotten branch that the law should decide, before it leads to civil war by force of enveloping society. This is the fundamental weakness of your text: it does not agree to designate the enemy, and therefore to make every effort to destroy it. False modesty continues to inhabit you: radicalization, lone wolves, et cetera. Minister, under the formula, the equivocals only lead to paradoxes. Paradoxals are the surveillance procedures, which should be reported to terrorism alone and be extensively tightened. Our citizens would scream if we presented them in this form the numbers of balancers that you propose, between the judge and the suspected terrorist, in terms of agreements or notifications. It is sometimes felt that the reforms of the Internal Security Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are drafted to facilitate the identification of procedural errors and other defects by criminal lawyers. Equally paradoxical is this absurd measure imposed on surveillance perimeters. Let us imagine a member of the Islamist mobilities who could walk all over Paris, or a supporter of the Islamic State organization free to travel from Avignon to Carpentras to continue to maintain its networks. From two things one: either the principle that prevails is trust in the examination of the case by the judge, or one goes back to obligations and automatism. But then, why do it in the exclusive sense of the interests of the watchmen and the defendants? Many amendments have been tabled to this effect by my non-registered colleagues, either by Mrs Ménard or by the National Front. I hope that the debate will be constructive, because the work of the non-attached reflects the great concern of the French. Let us come to Article 4a, by which you seek to give a framework to the highly contested deradicalisation associations. Most specialists are concerned about this method of treatment, and it is delusional to note that the state has taken so long to frame its relations with such structures. Political Islamism is not a teenage emotion or a sudden exacerbation; It's a combat ideology supported by states and silversmiths. It is in blatant opposition to our civilization. It is not afraid of our absurd provisions, such as the non-introduction into the text of municipal police and private security services, the reduction of military budgets in the midst of an international crisis, or the laxity on the reopening of Salafist mosques. It is the trap of the current legal constructions, which go astray in artifices called rights without duty, hysterization of the public debate on Islamism, abandonment of the identities that are the spiritual engine of defense of our country. Minister, we do not make a religion of a state of emergency; the excellent Jean-Frédéric Poisson had well noted the limits in the previous legislature. We simply refuse to return to laxism, to unsaid, to political submission, to the ideologues of self-hate. Like Mr. Wauquiez, I am in favour of internment of the most dangerous S records, in a preventive manner. Like Mrs Le Pen, I believe that this law does not address the cause of the evil. As Jacques Bompard proposed under the previous legislature, the mechanisms for the deprivation of nationality should be extended to a large extent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u267	Just that?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u268	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u269	Minister, the effective fight against terrorism requires that you listen to your opposition. Political Islamism is a danger to our civilization: it must be driven out of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u271	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u272	Madam President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is essential if we are to judge by its purpose, which is to strengthen internal security and combat terrorism. But today we can only fear that it will be a missed opportunity, and this is all the more regrettable because the stakes are important. The threat is still there. Our fellow citizens expect us not to let go of the guard. Of course, we are not meant to remain indefinitely in a state of emergency. But we are not meant to get used to terrorist attacks either. We must wage this war against the Islamic State and win it. I have a very special thought for our soldier of the 13th regiment of paratrooper dragons who died two days ago on the Irako-Syrian border. Why, when the danger is still real, put an end to the state of emergency, which gives our forces the capacity of reactivity and efficiency necessary to avoid new attacks? Is there a need to put an end to it? The answer is no. You make the choice to get out of it, while introducing additional means in the common law. Will these new means be sufficient? I'm afraid not. We know that jihadists continue to indoctrinate fragile fellow citizens, train them in violent actions, and succeed in doing so. We know that many of our fellow citizens trained in combat zones are ready to return to our territory to commit the irreparable. We know that the action taken in Syria, as in Iraq and elsewhere, will have the effect of bringing our fellow citizens back there to sow terror wherever it is. This will increase the terrorist threat. In the face of these dangers, our law enforcement agencies themselves consider that our legislative and judicial arsenal is insufficient. We must be aware of that. Of course, this text contains positive elements, such as the creation of a maritime NRP, which we have been asking for for a long time, but they are insufficient. You are, of course, introducing measures such as protective perimeters or individual administrative control and surveillance measures, but you are accompanying them with so many precautions, brakes, procedures, authorisations, that you seriously reduce their scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u273	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u274	Your text is sinning because of its shortcomings. This bill ignores new risks for which we should adapt our legislation, in particular the "cyber" dimension, including drones, whose technological improvements represent both opportunities and threats. We should consider a comprehensive approach, because everything is connected. There are ways, but they are not always well used – Operation Sentinel is the example. Our forces of law and order flow under the procedures that eat their time, devour their energy and determination, and prevent them from devoting themselves to their true missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u275	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u276	We have been voting for years for laws – at least eight since 2012 – that are increasing their tasks, and all this without giving them the means to do so. I am thinking first of all of the means in time, affected by the standards, but also by the application of the European directives on working time, which annihilates the effect of new hires. The impact for the gendarmerie can be estimated at 6,000 units. I am also thinking of the financial means. Everyone was able to see it on social media, when agents published photos showing the state of disrepair of their premises and equipment. It is about their own protection, even if there has been progress. This law is not accompanied by any financial provisions. There is a lack of intelligence capacity. How can we combat people who are travelling freely in Europe, even though the sharing of information is insufficient? Border control should be strengthened. [["Very fair! » on the benches of the LR group]] In addition, how can we pass a law on strengthening security by completely omitting the criminal component? Our law enforcement officials complain about the effects of the reform led by Mrs. Taubira. Measures such as criminal coercion or the abolition of floor sentences have harmful effects. Criminal proceedings have been considerably increased. Minister, are you going to come back to these laws? More time would be devoted to the field, so to intelligence. That is the major issue, ladies and gentlemen. The tools exist, but our investigators do not appear to be able to use them fully, without encountering a tendency to supra-compliance. There are limits to technical intelligence. You can imagine that today, with WhatsApp or Viber, it is difficult to follow all the communications of radicalized people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u277	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u278	Minister, we need to get back to field intelligence. To do this, we must urgently and genuinely simplify the daily lives of our law enforcement agencies. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Throughout this debate, we will make proposals to you, because our duty is to ensure the protection of the French. Let us really ensure more security for our fellow citizens by strengthening the provisions of this text, because human life is priceless. It is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u279	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u280	Madam President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of defending before you a courageous, responsible and balanced text. It perfectly reconciles the protection of the French and public freedoms. We all have at least in common this wound left in each of us by the terror and the immense distress felt at the evenings of January 7 and November 13, 2015, as again on the evening of July 14, 2016. And unfortunately I could have had ten more dates, those of the terrible terrorist projects fortunately and brilliantly foiled since the beginning of the year, thanks to the effective and courageous action of our intelligence and security services.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u281	And thanks to the European Union!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u282	The State protects us – it protects our lives, but also our values. It does so today in the context of a state of emergency. The challenge is to give it the means to continue to do so by leaving this state of emergency, which must remain so. After the reconquest of Mosul and Raqqa – which is under way – and Tal Afar, in which our forces participated, Daesh lost several of its centres of gravity. But the Islamic State is reorganizing, and is still trying to strike, here, with ever more force. At the same time, Al Qaeda, which has maintained its networks, is on the rise. The threat is no longer only exogenous; It's also endogenous. It is more difficult to prevent and detect. It is therefore necessary to be more responsive, more coordinated, particularly in the area of intelligence, and to have the best tools to anticipate terrorist projects further. That is what this bill is about. The National Defence and Armed Forces Commission (NDF) has reviewed, for its opinion, the provisions relating to the so-called "Hertzian exception" and the PNR, the Passenger Name Record. For us, it is not a question of creating NRPs: it is already done. The air NRP, made up of 19 data, was introduced in France by the military programming law 2014-2019. It's operational. The Maritime NRP, consisting of nine data, was created by the Blue Economy Act. The challenge is, on the one hand, to sustain them, as they enable terrorist movements to be detected, networks to be dismantled and protective devices to be adapted, and, on the other hand, with regard to the air NRP, to fulfil an obligation to transpose in the current context of Directive 2016/681 on the NRP. What we should be interested in is not whether to do so, but what will then have to be done to reap all the operational benefits of the fight against terrorism, because the system will only achieve its full effectiveness once each Member State has implemented its own national treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u283	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u284	Let us quickly adjust our arrangements to the text of the directive, so that we can set an example for our neighbours and bring to Brussels a proposal to deepen the exchange of information between Member States, as provided for in Article 9 of the directive. With regard to measures to monitor radio communications, follow the conclusions of the Constitutional Council. While it is necessary to monitor the radio domain, used by Daesh and so many others, this text proposes to provide guarantees for the protection of fundamental freedoms, which have been absent until now. In order to monitor these communications, we will impose rules of procedure on our services and establish control of the National Intelligence Technology Control Commission. Indeed, monitoring of radio communications without operator and private operators will be subject to the common law of intelligence techniques, which requires obtaining an opinion from the CNCTR and then an authorization from the Prime Minister. There will remain a simplified regime for monitoring microwave communications without operator and public. I stress that, as these three criteria are cumulative, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi or 3G communications do not fall within the scope of this residual exception: their monitoring is and will remain within the scope of common law. In addition, we propose to specify the duration of storage of the data before destruction. I say loud and clear, this bill is not just the one that will allow our services to continue to protect us. It is also an important legal step forward in the protection of fundamental freedoms. Of course, this text alone will not solve the endemic problem of terrorism on our soil, but it is part of it. To get to know terrorists better, we must go back to the geopolitical origins of terrorism, to know what it feeds from, in order to better consider eradicating it. We must also persevere in the direction taken since the beginning of the quinquennium to reshape living together. To serve this noble purpose, we have vision, courage and ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u285	But not determination!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u286	In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to two things. Let us have the courage to fight within the framework of common law. It would be possible to extend the state of emergency over and over again, but the strength of our values would be diminished and the terrorists would have already won one of their battles. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, let us be pragmatic: when we leave the state of emergency, we must know what is necessary for us to continue to live in safety despite the threat. As Pericles said: "It is not happiness without freedom, nor freedom without courage. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u287	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u288	Madam President, the Minister of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the previous speakers, we must note that we are faced with a delicate exercise: to leave the state of emergency by democratic requirement while guaranteeing a rule of law adapted to the new conditions imposed by the changing nature of the terrorist threat. That being said, allow the anglophile I am to evoke the memory of Edith Cavell, British heroine of the First World War. Just before being shot by the enemy, in 1915, she had this famous phrase: "Patrioticism is not enough, I must have neither hatred nor bitterness towards anyone. Of course, these were other troubled times, other circumstances, but I note that we must look at the text that brings us together today without hatred or fear, leaving aside our feelings and ideologies to give our country the means to prevent the commission of other terrorist acts against ours. It is therefore, I hope, serenely, with measure and determination,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u289	With lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u290	... that our group and all of us will review this text in order to make every effort to give the Government and the law enforcement forces the necessary means to defend ourselves against our enemies while preserving our fundamental freedoms. It is the honour of this government to propose to Parliament that it leave the state of emergency. This temporary condition, which must remain so, will have lasted for more than twenty-two months. It is now time to return to a rule of law more in line with the expectations of our democracy and the Republic. The dialogue with the Government, like that between the deputies, has enabled in committee and will enable the House to find this balance that we want in order to reconcile the demands of the freedom of everyone and the needs of the protection of all. The deputies of the Republic on the move consider that the proposed measures are fully proportionate to the threat; It is in the interest of this text to prevent the terrorist threat while guaranteeing the exercise of their fundamental freedoms to our fellow citizens. Basically, we will strengthen the protection and security of French and French people. Basically, we will restore freedoms for French and French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u291	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u292	We should not be mistaken: it is not this text that would permanently undermine the exercise of our fundamental freedoms. What is permanent is the terrorist threat, which violates the freedom of everyone to go home alive after a concert or a game, or even a political meeting. To those of our colleagues who would find that this text does not go far enough,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u293	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u294	... our group replies that we must not give in to terror or the temptation of arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u295	Let's not be naive either!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u296	To those of our colleagues who would find that this text goes too far, we would argue that we have chosen not to lose ourselves in angelism or in the methodical application of a particular ideology. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] To all, I say that it is up to us, since no one has done so before, to adapt our right to the circumstances of the world in which we live. We have to take things as they are, because we do not do politics other than on realities. This text gives our democracy the means to defend itself against our worst enemies. It is certainly perfect and the discussions in committee have shown that amendments can be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u297	Two amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u298	That's it already! But, above all, we are going to discuss ways to better protect our fellow citizens from terrorism, of course, but above all by preserving their fundamental freedoms. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is the balance between security and freedom that we will seek, within the framework of a redefined rule of law, to respect the values of the French Republic. That is how we will all remain, together, free, equal and fraternal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u299	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-25-E2001.u300	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours forty-five: Further discussion of the bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism. The meeting is adjourned.
