ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Arnaud Viala and others to restore the competitiveness of French agriculture and its central place in regional planning by reducing undue administrative and fiscal burdens and fair conditions of competition (No 150).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u2	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Arnaud Viala, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u3	We're not many, but we're making noise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u4	Mr President, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, ladies and gentlemen, this moment which is beginning is both important and a potential source – but I want to believe that nothing has yet been done – of great disappointment. The moment is important, because it completes a long and difficult work begun in October 2015, immediately after my arrival at the Palais Bourbon; French agriculture was already in the midst of a crisis and called for national political responses to its expectations. The first submission of this text was in March 2017. Together with many colleagues who want to propose solutions to our farmers and to our rural world, I have never given up the hope that our House will consider these proposals, which are now enriched and completed. The decision of the Republicans Group to put the first item on the agenda of this first parliamentary niche simply demonstrates the crucial importance we attach to the future of our agriculture, as we measure the urgency of the situation, the weight of expectations, the place our agriculture holds in our economy and in the future of our rural world and the development of our country. Sharing these convictions has been a challenge in recent weeks. First of all, I would like to thank all those who contributed to it: the many colleagues with whom we worked, the structures and bodies heard, who shared the majority of the suggested axes, the administrators of the National Assembly, under the auspices of Jean-Pierre Camby, the local representatives and actors of my department of Aveyron. I also welcome all colleagues from all sides of the political spectrum who showed interest in this text last week in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Finally, I thank you, Minister, for the listening you have been able to give me in our discussions on this subject. The moment is also potentially disappointing, because, despite all these efforts, the progress of the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs last week has been particularly revealing of the discomfort in which you place this crazy demand for the political approach, which you have described, to take precedence over the constructive dimension which you have praised.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u6	How far can you hold this line? The future will tell us, but I very much fear that you will regret it bitterly in the very near future. This morning, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have the opportunity to do something about it by opening up a window of hope for our farmers on the immediate consideration of their interests and expectations, beyond any other form of consideration. I'm counting on you, they're counting on you. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This moment will be potentially disappointing, above all, if you had to go to the end of your intentions by rejecting the bill without even discussing the articles, not for me or for you, but for agricultural France, for all our peasants who are waiting and who, like me, heard last night the stoned speech of the Head of State. It announced, by the end of the first half of 2018, a law aimed at putting in place a renewed contract and raising the threshold of resale at a loss. I very much hope that this undertaking will come to an end, and will support it with all my strength, if it is in line with the vision of an agriculture which is not only an activity for the maintenance of space, and whose foster vocation does not occult the indispensable economic vocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u7	That's opening!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u8	I will support it if it puts at the heart of the expected overhaul of the price formation process the concept of producers' income, which is not exactly the same as that of production costs. I will support it wholeheartedly if it has the courage to say that in agriculture and in the agri-food sector, as in other sectors, quality has a price and that this price must first be used to reward the first step of the chain. Finally, I will support it all the more as soon as it arrives, because our farmers have waited too long, and I fear it will, and I know it, for the vast majority of them, have a lot of difficulty waiting for another two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u9	We have to go fast!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u10	Because that's what this is about: if nothing is proposed in 2017 and early 2018, producers will only be able to benefit from the possible effects of future legislation in 2019 at best.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u11	We have to act now!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u12	It's late, very late, too late. In this respect, the bill which I have the honour to be the rapporteur may still have a fate other than that which the majority has made him suffer in committee. This text can become a useful legislative vehicle for quickly adopting certain measures that make consensus and enrich the current work of the General Food States – EGA – with certain aspects that will eventually escape the meshes of their nets. I am thinking in particular of the aspect on the transmission of agricultural holdings, which is a real challenge for many farms and for our countryside as a whole. I am also thinking of all the articles on taxation, which are not echoed in the 2018 Finance Bill currently under consideration here and will not be subject to any changes at the end of the EGAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u13	Yes! That's sad!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u14	I am fully aware that the EGAs must produce results and neither I nor anyone here wishes to amputate them with this purpose nor prejudge their conclusions. We simply propose that the National Assembly take the lead today, midway through this work, without delay adopting common-sense measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u15	We're ready!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u16	What's this about? Reducing standards for farmers is a vital necessity, apart from health standards, of course. The over-transposition of European directives, the weight of controls and their modalities, the reporting obligations impose a very unfavourable framework for the development of agriculture. On this point, Article 1 of the proposal, as I have planned to amend it, is intended only to implement, in agricultural matters, the Prime Minister's circular of 26 July, which calls for the abolition or simplification of two equivalent standards for a set standard. You cannot tell French farmers this morning that you do not want this circular to be implemented. To facilitate the constructions necessary for the storage of equipment, for seasonal housing or for agrotourism, to request that product withdrawals be accompanied by an approach to the search for substitutes, to supervise the controls – apart from health checks, I repeat – to indicate that the precautionary principle must lead to proportionate and scientifically assessable measures: this is what is at stake. By refusing to discuss Article 5, which deals with the introduction into meals served by the structures for the collective restoration of quotas of fresh products of quality, organic and if possible from short circuits, you would register against provisions adopted in the previous legislature, on several occasions, by parliamentarians of all political trends, but which have always failed. You would also register against the search for the quality of meals served in school canteens or hospitals and against producers who have been incited to produce "organic" for years, as well as against what the President of the Republic announced last night. If, on the pretext of the general states of agriculture, the provisions on the formation of upward prices, on the sharing of value, on unfairly low prices, on the role of processors were rejected, you would still keep agriculture in the deficit economic spiral which weakens it so much. In 2016, the number of our farms fell by about 10%, and farm income fell by 22%. Can we reasonably set 2019 as a point of view for measures to correct these trends? Thinking about the future by encouraging the transmission of shares of agricultural land grouping between members of the same family and the succession of generations on farms, with of course off-farmers, is today the sine qua non for the sustainability of our agricultural model. These are the proposed measures, which most of you share; You told us, and I thank you for that. That is why I ask you to adopt these proposals, or at least to debate them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u17	That'd be the least I can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u18	That's why we're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u19	Let's do it for the farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u20	I do not attribute to myself paternity, initiative, or originality: if the law is useful, it has no author other than the general interest. I am quite prepared to remove any trace of my name...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u21	That would be a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u22	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] ... or the sponsorship of the Republicans group which welcomes this text this morning in the parliamentary niche reserved for it, since these are, in truth, the only elements of blockage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u23	We would even agree to add Emmanuel Macron's!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] While the 2008 revision planned to extend the niche principle for the parliamentary initiative, it is not to provide a forum for the opposition, but for everyone to help build the legislation. If we could achieve a coherent, pragmatic and useful piece of legislation, without it being considered to be rejected because it comes from an opposition member, we would take into account the economic and human distress of a sector for which this spiral cannot be fatal, and which, if that were to be the case, would lead to our entire rural world. We would then have done, simply and collectively, our work as legislators.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u26	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u27	First of all, let me thank you, Mr rapporteur, for the opportunity you are offering me to come before you today, in this House, which I particularly like, to discuss ways and means of restoring the competitiveness of our agriculture. Your bill, honourable Member, is the result, I know, of a long work, both on the benches of the National Assembly and on the ground, in your constituency of Aveyron, which I visited very recently. Mr rapporteur, I agree with you. Yes, we must strive to regain the competitiveness of our agriculture, of the farm France, but not at any price. This must be done for French agricultural and food excellence. I have the optimism of the will, and I want it to spin. They're not just words; It is also a state of mind, that of the general states of food. I'll come back to it in a second time. I'll start with the observation. We all know the situation. The unbridled race to low prices is destructive of jobs, destructive of value, destructive of our environment. It prevents our sectors from adapting to the changes needed to meet consumers' expectations and remain in global competition. The right price is the right price, the responsible price; It's not mechanically the lowest price. We are going through a deep crisis of installations and we will have to face a huge challenge in the next ten years, namely, the renewal of generations. Fortunately, there are still many vocations, and all the trips I made, especially last month to Jim's Lands in the Oise, attest to this. I have seen many young people who want to embrace these beautiful careers offered by agriculture and its sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u28	We have to help them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u29	The image of our agriculture must be restored, not only to help strengthen the attractiveness of the sector, but also to maintain, and sometimes restore, the special link that makes the French attached to their agriculture and to their farmers. Citizens expect much from agriculture, but too often they ignore all the services it provides. Capital needs have exploded, as setting up, or simply modernizing, production and processing tools requires increasingly heavy investment. The markets, in many productions, are erratic and the livestock sector pays a heavy toll to this instability which becomes the rule. Finally, climatic, environmental, economic and health hazards are more frequent. I didn't find out about the situation four months ago when I got to the ministry. Elected from a rural and agricultural territory, the Department of the English Channel, I knew her perfectly. In the face of these findings, we must build together. Farmers want to live on the fruits of their work and not always depend on public aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u30	It's indispensable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u31	Because, like you, I do not want the relations between the state, Europe, the communities and the professionals to be limited to questions of cursors in the allocation of these aids, I want to talk to you about the method and the timetable in which we want to put our action. The method is that of the General Food States. To the question in the introduction of your report – will French agriculture be left for public policy? –, I answer clearly no.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u32	We must therefore vote on this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u33	Since my appointment, I've been at work. The mission entrusted to me by the President of the Republic in July has four specific objectives: to relaunch the creation of value in the agricultural and food field and to ensure its fair distribution among all actors; enable farmers to live in dignity from their work by paying fair prices; to provide the consumer with a healthy, safe, sustainable and accessible diet; continue to transform agricultural and agri-food systems so that they are highly economically, socially, environmentally and health-efficient. This work is under way within the framework of the General Food States, which you all know and in which you are obviously associated – many of you are involved. After the return yesterday to Rungis, before the President of the Republic, of the proposals of the first construction site, I want to salute the spirit of these general states. This is a historic step: never did producers, processors, distributors and consumer associations sit around the table to move forward together on concrete proposals, in order to transform our agriculture and work for the quality of our food. This collective challenge, this new philosophy in the relations between agriculture, industry and large distribution are an opportunity for agriculture! I commit myself, under the authority of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, to ensure that this state of mind continues to exist and to animate, with you parliamentarians, this productive dialogue of the future. Yesterday marked a milestone between the first site, dedicated to the creation and distribution of value in the food chain, and the second, dedicated to the food of the French, a healthier, safer, more sustainable and accessible diet. It is this moment that the President of the Republic has chosen to set clear objectives and to recall the shared responsibility of the actors. This new responsibility imposes a paradigm shift, which the state will lead and support. What are our objectives? We must put an end to the ever-lower price war, revive value creation and ensure its fair distribution among all actors, continue the transformation of agricultural systems, and provide the consumer with a healthy, safe and accessible diet. We can use as levers the balance of trade relations between the players, for a fair price, and investment in quality, for multi-performance chains. What will be our action in the coming months?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u34	We have to go fast, very fast!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u35	In order to achieve the transformation of our agricultural systems, the President of the Republic has set out the main lines of our policy. First of all, we must propose a renewed contract, with a contract not from buyers, but from farmers, to reverse the setting of prices, which will now be based on production costs. This contract will have to be multi-annual, over three to five years, to finally give visibility to producers. At the same time, I will take the initiative of a great deal of work in renovating our sectors and encouraging the regrouping of producers' organisations. This work on the professionalisation of producer organisations will be carried out with all stakeholders, in order to define the right indicators before mid-December, in conjunction with the Observatory for the Formation of Prices and Margins. Typical cross-industry contracts will then be put in place. We cannot wait any longer: the spirit of the General States must inspire the trade negotiations that are under way at the end of the year. Everything we have done so far would have been useless if we had gone back on the same basis as last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u37	We want to move forward and promote a fairer income for farmers. We are convinced that we have reached the end of a cycle: if the negotiating conditions were to remain the same, we would never achieve the goal we set ourselves. The spirit of the General States must therefore be seen from the beginning of November. This is a strong signal, which you call of your wishes. Yes, we want to go fast, and act effectively! In order to combat unfairly low prices and interrupt this race, we will work on raising the threshold of resale at a loss and framing promotions. I hope that these measures will be implemented quickly to ensure a fair return by price to producers and a higher quality of products to consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u38	There is already a text, ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u39	The President of the Republic committed himself to this yesterday, these provisions will be implemented during the presentation of action plans by sectors, before the end of December. That is how we will be confident that the benefits will be shared, that farmers will see their work better paid and that consumers will have a visibility on the objectives of increasing the range of products.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u40	With CETA?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u41	As you can see, the rapporteur, the Government is committed to the competitiveness of our agriculture. Some of the articles in your bill are in the right direction – we've talked about it. However, in order to carry out the transformation of our agriculture, for a better distribution of value and for a healthy, safe and sustainable diet, we need to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u42	We have to vote on our text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u43	The President of the Republic has indicated that if it is necessary, in order to move faster, to go through the ordinances, the Government is ready to do so. That is what I will propose in a bill, during – and not at the end of – the first half of 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u44	As early as January!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u45	We will go quickly, because we will have to be ready at the beginning of the year to start the reforms. This bill will incorporate the necessary levers: the renewed contract-making, the revision of the threshold of resale at a loss and the supervision of promotions. We will then be able to incorporate some of the articles contained in your bill, rapporteur. I'll be very attentive to it. I have sat on these benches for five years and I know that it is in co-construction and respect for the separation of powers that we will find the way through which agricultural systems can be renovated. Ladies and gentlemen, I have kept repeating this since I joined the department: we must not oppose agricultural systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u47	We must not impose uniformity in agricultural systems. But agriculture is now at the heart of a major change, that of the ecological and sustainable transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u48	What about the bio aids?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u49	This change imposes changes, sometimes even revolutions, in our production systems. It is no longer time to ask us how to free ourselves from this context. On the contrary, we must collectively build a new field of possibilities, creating new values for our agriculture and food. Farmers work hard. They get up early in the morning and earn little. We must reverse this paradigm that has existed for too long. We must ensure that the French are proud of their farmers, who export and contribute to the image of our country internationally, that the farmers are proud of their work and of themselves, because they have recovered the means to live dignifiedly, to invest, to innovate, to anticipate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u50	Then vote our text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] This is how our agriculture will return to the path of progress, the place that must be its own in Europe, its image: that of the most beautiful agriculture in the world, the most innovative and the most value-producing. This is my course, I sincerely commit to it. Together, we will find these solutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u52	In the general debate, Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u53	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, at a conference organised by a major national daily, I was invited to debate with a colleague from the majority and another from the opposition on the subject: "Renewal in politics, for what? " A question, which might seem silly, was then asked us by the assistance, a question at the centre of our role as elected: "Adage" whenever you want, you can" is it true for the deputies? » My answer was simple: whenever you want, you can't always – for lack of tools, means, time; But when a congressman can, he has to. When we can do something, it is our responsibility to act. Today – not in six months – we can act for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u55	The French know what they owe to our agriculture, and all have a deep respect for those who make it live. They guarantee the preservation of our natural spaces, the quality of our products; They are the ones who guarantee our food independence. They carry out these missions with talent, passion, but above all with self-denial. Because being a farmer means choosing a difficult job. It has always been so, but in recent years it has become a euphemism: increasing burdens and frying banks to finance investments; climate hazards more difficult to manage; regulatory instability and overtransposition of standards that undermine competitiveness in the face of competition from other less-impeded European countries; delays in the payment of CAP aid...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u57	These are unacceptable situations in our country. The political responses, both from our national leaders and from the European Union, have not always met the emergencies that threaten this beautiful profession every day. This week, the Mutuality Sociale Agricole estimated that in 2016, 30% of French farmers received less than 350 euros per month, and 20% did not even pay a salary. In my department of Aisne, 57% of them earn less than 390 euros a month.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u58	It's not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u59	How can we hope to have a sustainable agriculture under such conditions? It's not even about the attractiveness of the profession, it's about the survival of its professionals! In an economic world that accelerates frantically and increases the variation in the prices of cereals, meat, potatoes, milk, in a commercial landscape where the paths of the distribution of the value of the product lead to impasses, in an overly lush legislative forest where the operator loses all its benchmarks, this bill is timely. We'll never repeat it enough, there's an emergency. As we have already said in committee, Minister, this text is complementary to the general food states. You have to take the time to think about lasting solutions, that's right. But we must seize the opportunity that the bill offers us today. We can take first steps now, because French farmers no longer have time to waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u60	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u61	We can already revive value creation and ensure its fair distribution among the actors in the agri-food sector, allow farmers to live with dignity from their work, better meet the expectations and needs of consumers. The measures in this bill are pragmatic. They respond to the difficulties expressed by farmers in our constituencies, everywhere in France, and can be the subject of political consensus. Regulatory pressure and overtransposition of standards hinder the competitiveness of our farms and create distortions of competition. This set of controls and obligations affects the activities and initiatives of our French farmers. Chapters I and II make it possible to lighten the millsheet of standards. Promoting the consumption of local products that are part of sustainable food, ensuring quality products for consumers, is what is provided for in the second part of the General Food States, but this is precisely what Chapter III of the text which we are now debating is intended to include in the law. Better pay for the work of the players in the sector and allow producers to finally live from their work is the object of Chapter IV, which aims to rebalance the power relations between the links in the distribution chain in order to offer the fairest price to consumers. Putting agriculture at the heart of spatial planning is a reminder that its place is at the centre of the French economy and of rural life. This aspect of agriculture, too often forgotten by the legislator, is still hidden in the framework of the general states of food, but it is specifically dealt with in Chapter V of our bill. Finally, Chapter VI contributes to the sustainability of our agriculture by facilitating the transmission of farms, which is required by all professionals. These are concrete and lasting answers for our agriculture to improve its competitiveness and for farmers to earn a living! I once again welcome the constructive approach taken by Arnaud Viala, who has heard from many actors from all sectors involved in this bill, which has enabled every Member to bring his stone to the building. He himself tabled amendments to this text in order to improve it, to feed it with our remarks throughout the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u62	A colossal job!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u63	All our colleagues are not doing this. Not all of them are so cooperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u64	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u65	And that's too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u66	That's especially true for the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u67	The philosophy of this proposal, however, leaves little room for controversy, since it is based on listening and discussion. It aims only to help those who live in rural areas and feed all the French. This is the approach taken by Members of the Republican Group. [["Excellent! » on the benches of the FI group]] Transformation, disruption, efficiency: to hear you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you will revolutionize everything. But when you are given the opportunity, when you are presented with a text to act quickly, you miss the check. Excuse this bad pun, but you're missing the walk. This proposal for a law does not compete with the general states of food, it sets the stage for it. As I have already said in committee, it is the first step in helping French farmers. In these circumstances, when some of our colleagues in the majority play binary and free opposition, I wonder!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u68	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u69	It seemed to me that in the New World, we accepted all good wills and all good ideas! The majority On the move today acts exactly like yesterday's socialist majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u70	It's the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u71	It rejects block texts, while some measures are consensus, in a few months' time, to adopt identical measures, proposed this time by the Government. What a waste of time! The only losers of this political opposition are the French farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u72	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u73	These farmers who were waiting for us yesterday, Place de la République in Paris, where they had set up a village of local products to raise public awareness of the price of their production. We went to meet them, with Arnaud Viala and several of our colleagues The Republicans. From the bottom of the farms of our constituencies or on the cobblestones of Paris, all expect a strong commitment from the national representation. Last night in Rungis, Emmanuel Macron announced that he wanted to legislate on this subject, by ordinances, to go faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u74	That's a lot of prescriptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u75	It'll be 2018! If you really want to go fast, ladies and gentlemen, vote today on Arnaud Viala's bill, especially since we could join you later on the arrangements to be put in place for agriculture and continue to contribute to the general states of food. Reversing the logic of prices by building them from producers, we could vote for it! To raise the threshold of resale at a loss practised by the distributors, we could obviously vote for it! Renovating the model of contracting, which the right had created in 2010 in the law of agricultural modernization, we could vote for it! Instead, in committee, the majority rejected all the articles, all the amendments, even editorial ones: in the name of what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u76	They didn't read well! They'll change their mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u77	The Members of the European On the move, the Government has voted against limiting and regulating administrative controls on farms, even though the Government has promised to create a climate of trust between entrepreneurs and the administration. MPs En Marche voted against simplifying administrative standards, even though this article is in line with the Prime Minister's circular of 26 July 2017, which provides that any new regulatory standard will be accompanied by the deletion or simplification of two existing standards. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic calls on the actors in agriculture and agri-food to make efforts and to work hand in hand. What a picture we have of this Parliament by failing to achieve it ourselves. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I appeal to your reason, to your common sense. If you want to help French agriculture quickly, you will debate and vote for this text. In a few weeks, a few months, we will continue the work together on the basis of the conclusions of the General States. The New World, the Old World: whatever, as long as we serve our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, I let you meditate on this old peasant proverb: "The more ploughs, the more grains are tasty".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u78	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u79	Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is with interest that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has taken note of the proposal for a law on agriculture tabled by our colleagues, the Republicans. Of course, we understand that they are taking advantage of their group's parliamentary niche to advance such an important subject and that we, too, care about. Of course, many of us here, on all the benches of this House, are concerned about the situation of the agricultural world and its state of despair. As a farmer, I am very sensitive to it myself, and it is with great pleasure that I have noted, particularly in the Committee on Economic Affairs, that agriculture is an issue that is of great importance to all Members, regardless of their political orientations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u80	He's passionate about us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u81	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] But it seems to us that this proposal is coming too soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u82	It's never too early for agriculture!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u83	You are aware that the President of the Republic, together with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Agriculture and Food, have taken the initiative of a wide-ranging campaign of debates and exchanges on agriculture and food through the General Food States. Launched on 20 July, they take the form of numerous thematic workshops to address all the issues and bring out the most relevant solutions. Still under way, they will help to find solutions for the agricultural world and for the whole sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u84	You've been deceived: you're taking back the minister's speech. The General States are drawing their strength from their ability to bring out concrete ideas, co-built between farmers, distributors, processors and consumer associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u85	This consultation should lead to new, debated and concerted solutions. And it is clear to what extent the first elements of this work seem to attest to the usefulness of this approach both in terms of the distribution of margins and in terms of a new form of equilibrium between operators. Similarly, the regional decline of the general states, which the regional prefects have begun to organize, tends to bring out the specific regional themes, to fuel further reflection and to have a more territorialised overview of the concerns of our agricultural and agri-food sectors. For the time being, therefore, it seems to us more useful to allow the workshops to continue to work calmly without giving the impression that the legislator anticipates the role which will be his at the end of the general states or that he is thereby putting any kind of pressure on himself. For, Mr rapporteur, it is a whole sector that has mobilized, from agricultural unions to processors, from distributors to the Government, consumer associations or environmental associations. The President of the Republic spoke yesterday to present the conclusions of the first series of workshops of the General Food States. We welcome the forthcoming drafting of a major law on agriculture in the first half of 2018. The announcements of the President of the Republic are important.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u86	It's not the ads that grow the wheat!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u87	The implementation of a renewed multi-year contract with a contract proposed by farmers and no longer by buyers, or the establishment of genuine producer organisations, are some of them. The actual application of the sanctions provided for in the Sapin 2 Act is also more than welcome: it is not acceptable for some companies not to comply with the law by not publishing their accounts and thus distorting the reality of the discussion in a sector. We are very sensitive to the method, described yesterday by Emmanuel Macron, aimed at bringing together the various actors in the agricultural sector every year to evaluate the work carried out. It is important that everyone invest in the transformation of our current agriculture into a "new French agriculture", in the words of the President of the Republic. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] In this context, I would not like the Republicans' initiative to be guided by political considerations rather than by the search for a favourable outcome to the negotiations that would guarantee the general interest. We cannot believe this, especially since many of the subjects covered by this text are dealt with by the said workshops, and that – as Mr Dive pointed out – we could even find points of convergence. In this context, the Committee on Economic Affairs has accompanied the general states by the hearing of the various actors in the sector in an attempt to bring out common positions on the issues that concern us, first and foremost the remuneration of farmers, the reform of the law on the modernisation of the economy or the introduction of the Sapin 2 law. And you yourself, Mr rapporteur, have told us in committee that this agricultural world, which you know well, feels abandoned. Our farmers often feel misunderstood about the rest of society that asks them at the same time – should I say, "at the same time"? – to produce high-quality and cheap food, and to practise environmentally friendly agriculture while bearing the competition of practices which elsewhere in the world are much less conscientious. Our farmers are living this incomprehension poorly and I myself measure the space for expression provided by the general states of food. Farmers have things to say to the French: let us allow the time for this dialogue and exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u88	It's mitterrandian!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u89	The more we wait, the fewer farmers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u90	The more the final position will be shared, the stronger it will be. We must respond to the concerns of the agricultural world in a concrete way, but we will only be able to do so fully once the dialogue between the parties has been concluded. The very effectiveness of the approach requires compliance with the conditions that have been accepted by all and which must ultimately lead to the drafting of the law. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] The recognition of the economic dimension of the act of agricultural production, the search for better remuneration for products or the transmission of agricultural holdings are extremely serious subjects, which demand better than a simple response of circumstance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u91	We've done a lot of work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u92	You accuse us of political politics, but it is you who are about to vote against a text with which you agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u93	It is therefore for a question of temporality that we cannot endorse your bill. Following the conclusion of the General Food States, texts on agriculture will be submitted to you. Let us allow time to draft an agricultural law that responds to the immensity of the issues. There are difficulties in the very short term, as you rightly pointed out, particularly with regard to cash flow and outstanding CAP premiums, but President Emmanuel Macron made announcements yesterday on this subject. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM and REM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] By the end of this year, the bill on administrative simplification, which is a matter of great interest to you, which should enshrine the right to error, particularly for the benefit of farmers, will be considered by this House. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote in favour of the bill presented by the Republican Group, so as to give full scope to the consultations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u94	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u95	Minister, I am pleased to see you on these benches, me as a Member of Parliament, you as a Minister. I want to convey to you the will of the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents to work with the Minister of Agriculture in a calm and confident state of mind in order to be useful to our country, especially to farmers. For ten years, I have had the pleasure and honour of working with Michel Barnier, Bruno Le Maire and Stéphane Le Foll, who have been good ministers of agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u96	It looks like a funeral prayer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u97	We wish, Mr.Minister, at the beginning of this Parliament, to work with you as constructively as we do with your predecessors. I would like to send you a first message: French agricultural policy must be led by the Minister for Agriculture from the Ministry of Agriculture. The first signals that were sent raised concerns about the tension between the Minister of Agriculture and Food and that of the ecological and solidarity transition. I say everything from go, I support you so that it is you who lead the agricultural policy. That's an important point. My second message is addressed to Arnaud Viala, who has carried out a real parliamentary work, a work of substance. This high-quality work leads to a good proposal for a law, of which the group The Builders are ready to debate today to advance the agricultural cause, even though I understand the Government's strategy. French agriculture and French farmers are the best in the world. I am convinced of this and I have been saying it for years, but we are not saying it enough. Our agriculture and farmers are all too often stigmatized and attacked.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u98	They need to be respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u99	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] No one imagines, let alone those who ignore agriculture and farmers, the immeasurable efforts that have been made over the past 30 years in terms of quality of production, health and food security, sustainable development and animal welfare. The first subject, identified by Arnaud Viala, is the sovereignty of our farmers. I hope that in this Parliament we can work to restore the sovereignty of farmers, that is to say, their ability to be entrepreneurs, free and independent, and to decide on their future. The immediate concern must be for me the agricultural income, which goes through prices. To set prices, we need to adapt trade relations: we don't trade in 2017 as we did in 1950, 1980 or 2000. Today, we are in globalization, whether it pleases or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u100	I confirm that we do not like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u101	Globalization is a must for us; It's a reality. Globalization concerns the movement of people, goods and goods, as well as trade. That is how we must adapt. For the last ten years, we have been talking about the famous contract. In this House, at the beginning of the legislature, we debated the moralisation of political life. It seems to me that we need to look at the moralisation of commercial relations and practices, seeking to rebalance the situation of dependence, I would even say of submission, on our producers vis-à-vis certain actors, purchasing centres, but also some distributors and industrialists. To do this, we must help farmers to create producer organisations and associations of producer organisations. Public authorities – the state, on the one hand, and elected representatives, on the other – must support farmers in this process and make producer organisations more efficient from a legal, regulatory or even financial point of view. It's a necessity. The establishment of a standards observatory, proposed by the rapporteur, should be discussed. Could we not instead redefine the role of the Committee for the renovation of standards in agriculture in order to incorporate the concerns expressed by Arnaud Viala? The bill also addresses the issue of control. On behalf of the Constructive Group, I have tabled an amendment to ban the word 'control' and replace it with 'evaluation'. Our farmers are serious, competent and honest professionals. Given the strategic, health and environmental issues involved and the support it receives, agriculture should be subject to assessments. But these assessments must be accompanied by a period of caution, as Arnaud Viala wishes and as envisaged by a bill that I had tabled in the previous legislature. A check, it's getting ready. Where a control of sports and cultural facilities or establishments receiving from the public is provided for in a municipality, the mayor shall be informed; prepare the administrative documents and bring these equipment into conformity. So I wish we could talk about evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u102	Otherwise, it's coping!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u103	The climate of suspicion puts pressure on farmers in addition to price and income uncertainties, as well as climate, environmental and political hazards. We must create a society of trust and not suspicion. That is why I hope that agricultural policy will be carried out by you and your ministry. For several years, farmers have always been suspected of practices harmful to the environment or animal welfare, often out of ignorance. The pressure exerted by this suspicion imposes on the political power to act. Evaluation, coordination and simplification are part of the assumption of trust, which must replace the assumption of suspicion. Yesterday, more than announcements, the President of the Republic presented his vision of agriculture and his expectations for farmers. But at this stage of the debate, Minister, since there is an urgent need, let us apply the law. The reference to production costs and market prices is contained in the Sapin 2 Act. Minister, you were a Socialist Member of Parliament a few months ago, like Dominique Potier: we voted on this provision; She's in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u104	I voted for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u105	Let us also apply the law when a powerful industrialist refuses to publish his accounts. Let's apply the law, you fool! I also wish that we could break the oligopoly – not to say the cartel – of a few purchasing centres which are thus placed in a position of domination in commercial relations: 150,000 breeders, 140 slaughterhouses and 4 purchasing centres; These figures betray an imbalance. That is why, Minister, I am counting heavily on you, at the beginning of this Parliament, to bring strong and urgent messages on farmers' incomes. That's the determining factor. It must be explained to consumers: an agricultural product, which becomes a foodstuff, respectful of health safety, the environment and animal welfare, has a price. Regardless of appearances – law or ordinance – only the result counts. This is why the group The Constructives are ready to discuss this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u106	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u107	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to welcome the work of Arnaud Viala. I am convinced, for having met him in recent years, of the sincerity of his approach and of the authenticity of his intentions and of the benefit that we can derive from this debate in committee and in the Chamber on a common passion: the future of our agriculture, which is part of the future of our country. I thank Mr. Viala for this bill, which illustrates the best of the rights of the opposition, and which demonstrates our ability to debate by extracting itself from the unique thought and to argue in mutual benevolence and listening. If we are meeting today, it is because we are in an emergency situation. We must welcome the absence of pathos between us. In defending my convictions and in my commitment, on behalf of the New Left Group, I am always careful to look for what can unite us. We certainly have differences, they must be expressed, it is democracy. But the French are able to come together on a subject and overcome their divisions – I do not believe in the negation of the right and the left, it may be my difference with our colleagues and friends of the Republic on the move, but I believe in our ability to overcome this opposition, and I will illustrate it in my remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u108	That's what modernity is all about!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u109	I am pleased that agriculture is a common passion and that it brings us together. Today, modernity is to realize that the oldest history of humanity, that of our civilization, has to do with the peace of the world. Given the challenges of food sovereignty, justice and the fight against climate change, talking about agriculture is about the future of the planet and a certain rural civilization that we have together in the heart. If I advocate today not for a rejection, but for a postponement of the discussion, that is for two reasons. The first is the anachronism of the bill; The second is linked to substantive nuances that will feed into a healthy and democratic debate at a later stage. I do not insist on the anachronism of this text – as has been said many times – when an initiative has been launched. I am one of those who, during the last legislature, repeatedly drew attention to the interest in our country, because of its long gastronomic tradition, to gather around the theme of food. We set ourselves still around a table to eat; We don't just feed on food and nutrients...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u110	We also eat glyphosate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u111	...we have a culture of conviviality, of exchange. In the French tradition, food occupies a singular place: it is not only functional. I'm sure there's a story to write about this food. Perhaps it is the primary purpose of the Food States to do so. I can testify that this work has been started. It has been fertile, with regard to the first stage. Having the honour, at the request of the Minister of Agriculture, to host the eleven workshop on the ecological and solidarity transition of our agricultural production tool, I can testify to the fruitful exchanges, including between personalities from a wide variety of backgrounds. Sitting at the discussion table – like sharing a meal – to talk about the future of our agriculture, our food, our health and our planet is an extraordinary opportunity. And, not without a slight frustration that I did not do so during the previous mandate, I am delighted to be able to live this moment today, in coherence and continuity. The President of the Republic and the Minister of Agriculture announced yesterday in Rungis a text which will take place not in the distant future, but almost immediately. In the first half of the year, we will be meeting – with the landing scheduled for June at the latest – for a bill that could call for orders. This will remind some people of bad memories, but in this case the procedure is perfectly justified. It's about putting an end to messes that were set up years ago. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] The second anachronism I regret is the implementation of the Sapin 2 Act. In this regard, he is pleased that I am coming after Thierry Benoit. Do our friends and colleagues in the Republican Group remember the work done with Mrs Vautrin, who represented them in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and with many of their colleagues, very experienced on these issues – since agriculture is a Republican passion, but this group does not have a monopoly?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u112	We're ready to share everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u113	You're right, revolution is sharing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u114	Go on, go on! No monopoly, exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u115	At the invitation of Republican colleagues who had in their time tabled a bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u116	Very different from Sapin 2!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u117	... the Minister of Agriculture has opened a section in Sapin 2 to deal with artisanal and agricultural issues. As rapporteur for the economic aspect of the text, I can testify that after hours of hearings and work, with all the trade unions, agricultural forces and all the parliamentary groups, we have found a consensus on the agricultural issue, in order to mark a stage, to restore order in the mismatch and to rebalance the leonin relations which govern the establishment of values in this sector. Sapin 2 law has not been implemented for obvious reasons of timing. Traditionally, in our country, the negotiating period extends from November 1 to February or March of the following year. We are therefore at the beginning of the cycle initiated by this law. How do we evaluate a text that we have not implemented? We must first live with him, even if the President of the Republic said yesterday that he wants to exceed the glass ceiling established by the Autorité de la concurrence and certain European rules, and revisit the rules which, under the previous mandate, caused us to tremble, preventing us from taking certain steps. Let us already explore with the best will the possibilities offered by the law in terms of negotiation. Yesterday, an impetus was given in this direction. Missing Sapin 2 law, let us draw conclusions to build a new text that could be called Sapin 2.5 or 3! In any case, let us keep this continuity in mind. I listened carefully to the speech of the President of the Republic. Like all the trade union forces and many of you, we are available, in the New Left Group, to build this new deal for agriculture, this "New Agricultural France". It seems to me that we will do so while formulating a political nuance. Allow me to recall the sometimes misunderstood legacy of the last term. Minister Stéphane Le Foll has boldly begun the agro-ecological transition, which is now irreversible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u118	He didn't fund it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u119	Needless to recall the Ecophyto II and Ecoantibio plans, or the creation of ecological and environmental interest groups. All of this is in the long term. The minister led the fight. We must pay tribute to him. The Sapin 2 law, as well as the European battles to recover budgets and regulatory instruments, are the work of the last mandate, as well as the law against food waste and many other projects. These are beautiful achievements, which will be staged, recorded in a narrative and, I hope, amplified. On behalf of my family, the left, let me recall that, during the last term, we had laid all the foundations of the transition for a return to regulation, thanks to agroecology. I hope that those who will continue this fight will remember more. You don't dishonor yourself when you accept an inheritance and admit a common story. I would now like to make some minor substantive differences with Arnaud Viala's proposal, although I think we can come together. I talked to Christian Jacob about it a little ago. Consistency of the policy of the President of the Republic, which will be the subject of a new law, requires two efforts. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The first concerns the international, because it is impossible to dismantle in international treaties what we are trying to build patiently on the scale of the French farm. It is unacceptable that CETA agreements weaken the health security of the most vulnerable consumers. No labelling of made in Canada can reassure us. If I want quality food for all, first and foremost, I hope that we legitimately defend our producers. I don't like this globalization of Shadok, which is trading milk for beef around the Atlantic. We have better things to do on our planet than sign these absurd agreements. We need treaties of a new generation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u120	All right! Let's work together!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u121	The second effort concerns the French farm. I'll only point out a few leads that are of interest to us. To build the future, we will have to work on group agriculture. I will mention just one figure: today, the costs of mechanization account for 15% to 30% of production. If they were reduced to 20 per cent, there would be extraordinary productivity gains. This implies, dear Jean-Baptiste Moreau, a reform of taxation, which you are going to tackle. We have experienced slippages that must be controlled in order to regain the spirit of group farming. It will also be necessary to work on producer organizations and to put an end to leonin relations, as provided for in the Sapin 2 Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u122	Thank you, Mr. Potier...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u123	Agroecology is not a problem, but a solution. In vivo work on laboratory pilot farms has shown that we can earn income, improve productivity and save plant protection products.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u124	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u125	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and REM groups]] The last subject will be the regulation of land. So many democratic dates!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u126	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u127	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is proposing a law on French agriculture. Everyone agrees that we need to act quickly, but we need to be clear: for us, the solutions to be implemented are radically opposed to the ones proposed by the authors of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u128	We wouldn't have known!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u129	There's nothing to hope for!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u130	Much of the women and men living in French agriculture suffer. This is a reality that no one can deny. Their low incomes do not allow them to live with dignity from the fruits of their work. Many farmers earn lower incomes than SMIC, followed by unworthy pensions. In this sector, at national level, the average income before tax is EUR 19500 per asset per year, but the annual income of 30% of holdings remains below EUR 10000. Farmers are under significant stress, particularly because of the amount of their investments and the loans they have often been forced to contract in order to be competitive, and which strangle them. [["Very fair! » on the benches of the LR group]] I will quickly pass on the paperwork they need to fill in to join the CAP. On the other hand, I cannot silence the problem of predation, which subjects herders and shepherds to intense stress. In my region, it is particularly – but not exclusively – about sheep rearing. The main predations in my department are bears. By strengthening their population without ensuring the means to coexist with them, successive governments have put the weight of their decisions on the breeders alone. There is an urgent need to act before a tragedy occurs. In 2016, the number of suicides among farmers increased threefold. One farmer committed suicide every two days, a suicide rate 20 per cent higher than that of the rest of the population. Our agricultural model is out of breath. Pascal Canfin, managing director of WWF France, said last night on France info: this model is bankrupt. Bankruptcy is economic, health and environmental. His first victims were farmers, who died slowly. The largest social plan of all sectors of activity is validated or even organised by its main representatives, namely the National Federation of Farmers' Unions – the FNSEA.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u131	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u132	We can't hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u133	The model organizes a race for competitiveness. Farmers are called upon to grow or disappear, as well as to produce ever more and less expensive so that they can compete with countries with lower social and environmental standards than ours. They are encouraged to become exporters and feed the world regardless of the economies of developing countries or the environment. This model, which is claimed to be based on market regulation or governed by an invisible hand adjusting supply to demand, actually crushes our farmers and favours large owners. In addition, it destroys employment: 40,000 farms disappeared between 2010 and 2013, while agricultural employment decreased by 22%. This productivist model is not sustainable: highly carbonised, polluting, since it uses pesticides such as glyphosate, it destroys soil fertility and considers environmental protection only as an economic cost, while – we see it every day – it is not negotiable. That is why we are in favour of the inclusion in the Constitution of the green rule, according to which respect for nature prevails over economic interest. In this model, public intervention is failing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u134	Better a good old kolkhoze?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u135	Price support has been banned and replaced by aid which goes mainly to larger farms. This gives producers the power of industry and large-scale distribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u136	We can't hear that! Mr. President, do something!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u137	Our farmers will be victims of free trade agreements such as CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – allowing Canadian beef to enter our territory that will compete directly with French beef production. Mr. Macron said he wanted to increase farmers' income. "At the same time," it promotes free competition. An 11-year-old would understand that this is impossible. If our agricultural model does not change, we go into the wall. That is why the State must intervene to define a new pact between farmers and society.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u138	Based on functionalization?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u139	The holding of the General Food States provided an opportunity to put things back on track and to reflect on a new model reconciling farmers' dignity, food sovereignty, health security and environmental protection. Unfortunately, that is not the direction we have taken. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] To return to the bill...,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u140	We were far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u141	... the first part aims to encourage economic performance by lowering standards, even if it destroys the environment. The text proposes to align itself with the so-called European, to question the precautionary principle or to frame the change in practice. In short, it proposes to combat environmental dumping from the bottom, instead of proposing solutions from the top, such as ecological taxation or import restrictions. A second part confirms the continued concentration of farms, which favours the race to expand and the appearance of a model of agricultural firm in the image of the farm of the thousand cows, in the Hauts-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u142	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u143	This does not provide a sufficient response to the problem of setting up young farmers. Some arrangements, such as taking collective restoration as a local outlet, go in the right direction, but they lack ambition, due to lack of sufficient objectives. Can consider cheeses or yogurt made with milk produced thousands of kilometres away as "local"? On the other hand, while local production is an important criterion, this production must also come from organic farming. Some provisions aim to strengthen farmers' bargaining power in order to obtain better prices, which is positive. Our project for agriculture is clear. We defend an economic, ecological and peasant model, a guarantee of quality food, a peasant agriculture, in the sense we hear it, with farms of human size, where farmers are masters of their production tool and respectful of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u144	They already are!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u145	Prices must be guaranteed that take into account the cost of production and the reality of the territory. As Alain Rivière, a meren and limousine breeder, says, one hectare in Ariège does not correspond to one hectare in the Lauragais plain, and even less in the Beauce. It is necessary to provide for substantial compensation when natural handicaps are proven, especially in mountain areas. Every peasant must receive a decent income, first and foremost from the sale of his product. We intend to encourage the relocation of production and organic farming. This would involve using the lever of collective restoration, as I said earlier, and improving aid, particularly in mountain areas. In mountain departments, pastoralism is essential and needs to be valued, as it plays an important role in heritage conservation. Pasture is the only way to maintain natural spaces, keep them open and accessible, and contribute to the prevention of natural hazards such as fires or avalanches. Moreover, from a social point of view, pastoral activity is generally the last bulwark to the abandonment of territories and contributes to the maintenance of an economic, tourist and human fabric in disadvantaged areas. It is necessary to take this question in arms-to-body. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In short, the solutions are there; All that is missing is political will. The model developed since the post-war period and reinforced in the bill of the Republican Group makes the race for production and competitiveness a priority. It is this logic that we are fighting. Agriculture must be a source of life, for consumers, for farmers, for the environment and for our territory. It is this life that we must defend. We reject the general logic of this text, but urgently call for the development of new legislation for a living, peasant and ecological agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u146	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u147	[["Very good! »on the benches of the LR and LC groups]] Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the initiative of our colleague, Mr Viala, because I think we are never talking enough about agriculture and food in this House. Let us therefore go now until the end of the debate, without first rejecting the articles. Having said that, I really regret the angle of attack which is, from its title, taken by the text. By making the myth of the competitiveness of French agriculture the alpha and the omega of the country's agricultural recovery, you are wrong not only in words but above all in ills. In fact, in order to understand things well, in my view, it is necessary to start by naming evils well. For the profound income crisis experienced by our farmers, both European and French, is not, in my view, simply cyclical, linked to successive hazards or to administrative and fiscal constraints alone, or even environmental constraints. This crisis is structurally contained in the political choices to abandon the tools of regulation and intervention on the purchase prices of production: I am thinking in particular of controlling volumes and storage. These policy choices are linked to the opening up of trade and the power left to industrial operators and to large-scale distribution, to the detriment of the value added retained by producers. It is not a lack of competitiveness to which our farmers suffer, but a lack of income from the sale price of their production. It's not the same thing. This structural crisis has taken root in the application of neoliberal doctrine to the agricultural sector for more than thirty years. Always go to the lowest price: what a mirror to the alouettes! Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we will not fundamentally change the living, working and production conditions of our farmers without tackling the root causes of agricultural problems. Effective action requires strong measures, not just palliatives. We see it today. After agitating the red rag of the food states for a few weeks, the President of the Republic and the Government finally announced to us a form of Copernician revolution, which would cover the distribution of added value. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether you have noticed this, but yesterday's speech by the President of the Republic is reminiscent of that delivered by President Sarkozy on 27 October 2009 in Poligny.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u148	Not so good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u149	I invite you to read it again: you will see that there is a bit of copy-paste in the words of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u151	But we know what follow-up was given to Poligny's speech, and for reason: after the words, when it comes to making a real, concrete assessment of liberalism, to recognize its failures, everything becomes more complicated! Everything becomes more complicated when you continue to want to lock yourself in the trap of contracting that is supposed to solve imbalances. We therefore expect to know, Mr.Minister, what the announced intervention of the public authorities will be about. Indeed, after the bells and drum bearings, we will have to intervene on the substance of the problem, i.e. act directly in the balance of forces between economic actors with totally unbalanced capacities for action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u152	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u153	We are well aware that the contractual clauses that are due, including so-called margin moderation agreements, will in fact only intervene in a negligible way in the solution to this persistent difficulty. The problem concerns the major economic players in the distribution sector, in the agri-food industry, who are taking full advantage of the political choices of deregulation and liberalisation of agricultural markets, not only at national level, but also, as everyone knows here, at European level. If agriculture does not come out of European competition law, we will not be able to impose the minimum price necessary for income guarantees. Everything else – I say everything else – is powder in the eyes! To return to your proposal for a law, Mr rapporteur, if I agree with certain articles of this text – we have been working together for a few years on agricultural issues – it must be noted that its main provisions always go in the same direction: the accompaniment of liberalism. [[Smile]] In analysing precisely his chapter V, I remember the exchanges that we had already, in 2010, during the examination of the bill for the modernization of agriculture and fisheries, carried, at the time, by your party partner, Minister Bruno Le Maire. He was already in the midst of a liberal march, which he continues today beyond partisan affiliations. I do not resist the desire to give you my appreciation at the time, while the minister was holding the green carpet of contract-making as the only political response able to respond to the farmers' income crisis. I said to him: "Your project remains [...] to shake the only scare of voluntary contracting and private insurance, in order to repel the threats associated with the total liberalization of agricultural trade: contracting, private insurance, the loop is thus closed. There is no room for public policies in the market sphere, no room for coherent measures of intervention, supply management and price orientation. I could say the same to you today, Minister, as I could say to the President of the Republic. We will see how public policies will be placed in the marketplace. We will see how coherent measures of intervention will be put in place. We will see how we can manage supply and price orientation. We will see if you will have the political courage to call into question the common agricultural policy, which always draws prices down. We will judge acts – we will have the opportunity to discuss them again. But already, at the time, among the trade union organizations that we had heard, there were few that showed enthusiasm for contracting, as it was presented. In general, agricultural trade union organisations already saw this as a lure rather than a solution. They stressed the need for a market regulation policy and intervention tools on price definition. This is directly linked to the common agricultural policy. [[Smile. – "What a shame! »on the benches of the LR group]] I am going to shorten my remarks, for lack of time, which, I think, will not leave you without regrets. I have the painful feeling that we continue, with this text, as with the general states of food, to revolve around the real solutions that are necessary, but without ever wanting to succeed. And for the sake of this: this would involve, among other things, questioning the precepts that guide all European and national policies today. Many of you, by the way, have had the opportunity to debate bills that I defended in the previous Parliament. I have tabled amendments to this text, which I hope will come into discussion – it is indeed important that it be completed. I believe that strong measures must be included in the law to guarantee farmers' income.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u155	On the central issue of the distribution of added value, I do not hope that we will come together with points of agreement. I want to go back to a big hole in the racket of your bill, which is also included in the speech of the President of the Republic, who has cleared the problem a little too easily: I want to talk about the consequences of the implementation and the continuation of the free trade agreements. On this subject, last Tuesday's hearing by Mr Phil Hogan, European Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, confirmed, if still needed, all our fears about the positioning of the Commission, but also of the French Government, with regard to CETA and the negotiations between the European Union and the Mercosur countries – the Common Market of the South. We are moving in public, in front of the agricultural leaders, we are inflating the muscles, to appear voluntary, we are announcing the price revolution, but we are leaning on the accelerator alongside Mr Juncker, in the European Council of Ministers: this is the reality! Ladies and gentlemen, not only is there no guarantee on the agricultural aspect of CETA as regards compliance with European standards or the quality of production, but this agreement is intended to be used as a basis for negotiations on future agreements. Naturally, Mr Hogan, like President Macron, is not in a position to justify the interest of these agreements in our agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u156	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u157	On the contrary, these will nullify all the efforts that can be made...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u159	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI and LC groups]] ... in the same way that, if we do not upset the common agricultural policy, we can make every possible effort, you can start a Copernician revolution, it will remain limited to words, and, ultimately, will remain the evils for the peasants of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u160	Mr Frédéric Descrozaille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u161	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen since the beginning of our debate, agriculture is an exciting subject, which often allows us to overcome divisions. I have recognized myself in the words, marked by an accent of sincerity, which we have heard. Personally, at the beginning of my career, I forged my political consciousness in contact with agricultural unionism. The peasant world votes more than the others. There are young entrepreneurs who know better than others, and much earlier, what are the prerogatives defined by our institutions. The concept of commitment is extremely present in the agricultural sector. So I am confident in our ability to agree. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would add that I came from the author's original department and rapporteur of the bill; I have a part of myself and I find myself in a lot of provisions proposed by our colleague Viala.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u162	It's a good start!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u163	However, I believe that this bill poses two problems: one relates to chronology and the other to method. First of all, I would like to say a word about the previous interventions. Mr André Chassaigne, the trial you are pursuing in our political environment and in liberalism refers – as is often the case with speeches on this side of the House – to notions that do not fall within the prerogatives of the House. Indeed, we cannot rewrite here the statutes of the International Monetary Fund. What you denounce dates back to a time – 1980 – when Rouen was the first European exporter of wheat. Since then – precisely in 1994 – the Marrakesh Agreements have been signed. We are engaged in international relations, we export one in two tons of wheat. It is therefore not here, by a law that would apply only to France, that we could convince all our neighbours to change their model.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u164	That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u165	Otherwise, what's the point? That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u166	We are obliged to take into account our commitments. I also dispute the unfortunate reference made to the FNSEA; In fact, from the strict point of view of the regularity of the election, the State has few more representative socio-professional interlocutors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u168	You may regret it, but that's the reality. On the method, the President of the Republic announced yesterday that he was giving the hand to agriculture, asking it to define sector strategies on the basis of which he would pass a law accompanying these sector plans. The law will form the basis for France's position for the next CAP budget. This timetable is innovative and unprecedented, as the law we will be voting will empower the Government to proceed by order, thus saving time and, above all, developing a direct link between the Government and the relevant social actors. This is one of the merits of the order method. Therefore, I do not prefer to discuss a bill, as relevant as it may be. Let the professionals define their strategies and, on this basis, we will entrust the Government with writing with them the tools they need to be accompanied. Finally, the urgency that would justify the passage of this bill, I do not interpret it as you do. I remember a professional agricultural manager from the South of France, running a project with a little impatient collaborators, who said: "Don't be too fast, we don't have to waste time! " [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Slowly indeed, because we are in a hurry. Let's not confuse speed with precipitation! By mid-2018, we will have a mechanism to prepare and project our agriculture in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u169	Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u170	Mr President, Minister, I would have welcomed the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, but he is not here. That is a pity, it is the first text of the committee that goes to the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u171	What a contempt for agriculture!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u172	He's on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u173	Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating an excellent proposal for a law to restore the competitiveness of French agriculture. Competitiveness does not mean liberalism, especially in the face of purchasing power plants, my dear Andre. Hundreds of reports and articles explained, explained, explained that agriculture and farmers, etc. That it would have been, that it would have been, that it would have to, etc. All these reports have invariably dealt with the issue of whether conditions are in place to produce and are then followed by proposals that are too often conventional and not sufficiently daring, failing to be innovative! And during this time of the political debate, our farmers continue to lack air or to vegetate, which is not the least paradox, and which is especially not funny when we live every two days this tragedy of seeing a farmer put an end to his life. It is unbearable, so there is an urgent need to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u175	Our group's bill today deals with the reduction of standards, administrative burdens and undue tax burdens, as well as the fairness of the conditions of competition. Subjects and proposals which appear to be incorrect in the light of the debates that we have had in committee, but not incorrect at all if we listen to the recent remarks of the President of the Republic, are we not, Mr Minister? Agriculture is a fully-fledged economic sector of our country that is fully part of our history and culture. French agriculture cannot ignore the increase in competitiveness, the search for export markets and the creation of jobs. Farmers need to be supported, like all entrepreneurs in France, who can no longer bear the administrative burdens associated with their trades, which have sometimes become impossible to carry out. The lack of prospects for producers hinders young farmers' commitment. They are afraid to settle on their own and not be able to live and sustain their families from their work. Those already settled are also afraid. Fear of losing their exploitation, fear of losing money while working. Working to make it possible for our farmers to live from their work is essential for them to be able to calmly consider the future. Ladies and gentlemen, you are pretending to be the new world! You want to do politics differently, so much the better, but then abandon ideological postures in this area where we know that a consensus would certainly move the lines to facilitate the daily lives of our farmers! I recalled in committee the words of Laurence Cormier, farmer in Mayenne, president of the association "Les Elles de la Terre": "To be a farmer today is in the long run to accept to die three times: morally, economically and physically. And, as farmers, we can only witness what is like a real genocide. " So taking refuge behind the argument that the general states of food are standing, it's too easy! Perhaps the calendar is shaking, but do you not think that the most constructive position would have been, at the same time, to enrich the text rather than to disassemble it point by point to avoid any debate? Yesterday, on the occasion of a step-by-step review of the General Food States, the President of the Republic called for "a spirit of collective responsibility for the mobilization of all." It therefore seems that the bill that we are debating today is part of this spirit and of the challenges that the Head of State wants to face! With this in mind, I would like to share with you my experience of parliamentary debates and discussions in this House. Last year, as a result of my work in the parliamentary fact-finding mission on short circuits and the relocation of the agricultural and food sectors, I was a speaker of the Republicans Group in the discussion of the text of an environmental colleague to promote the territorial anchoring of food, which was discussed at one of their niches, as it is today. You know that there are differences of objectives and methods between Europe Ecology - Greens and Republicans. I did not share all the views of my colleague, but I had this text voted unanimously by the Republican Group, because we have always voted for texts of general interest which, even if imperfect, are in the right direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u176	Bravo, Jean-Charles!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u177	That's what co-construction really is! And quite between us, Minister, the vote on this bill by Brigitte Allain makes the President's promises on organic matter already in force, you have to tell him! This decision, beyond each other's political affiliations, we had taken it for our farmers, for the population, for rural life and for the promotion of proximity circuits. Today, the subject of the end of partisan borders flourishes among the majority, but you have not been able to have a spirit of co-construction for this text in committee. Today, you have the historic opportunity to demonstrate to the French that the parliamentary majority knows how to go beyond the voting instructions and how to take into account the expectations of the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u178	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u179	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the debate! Don't vote on the motion to reject! At least discover the items you share! Be bold for our farmers! Let's get out of the way! Let us go beyond the divides and demonstrate your constructive spirit by adopting this bill that we can enrich the promises of the President of the Republic next spring.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u180	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u181	Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a decade our agriculture has been in crisis, an economic crisis, but also an identity crisis: everything that was true and certain a few years ago is no longer necessarily true today. Our reflection on all the policies to be pursued in the field of food and agriculture must now be integrated into a deeply reshaped three-tiered context. A first level relating to globalization and progress in science. A second on consumer purchasing methods and their new food modes, which must be taken into account in conjunction with citizens' aspirations. Finally, a final level for the concerns that have become major concerns of climate change and global demography. The President of the Republic yesterday invited us to collectively rethink a new agricultural France. As we know, and the figures illustrate, French agriculture is going wrong. This needs to be addressed at European level, and the focus is on the Common Agricultural Policy and the 2020 deadline, which is expected to be sensitive to the European Union's budgetary outlook. We are also working in this direction in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and at the beginning of the week we heard from the European Commissioner for Agriculture. Our country must also provide responses at the national and local levels. If they are essential, we need a time for reflection and consultation in advance, in order to understand these developments and expectations. I believe that this is the meaning of the initiative initiated by the President of the Republic and by you, Minister. I would like to pay tribute here to your work, Mr rapporteur, in trying to find solutions to our farmers and your expertise on these issues, but, as we have already said, we differ on the form: I think it would be a mistake to legislate before we have the elements of understanding these developments. How could we, in fact, legislate without giving us the opportunity to describe these new forms of agricultural practice and to assess its advantages and weaknesses, if we wish to propose public adaptations to take them into account and help them develop? How can we not listen to and wait for the conclusions of the fourteen national workshops and their local variations – unheard of – before deciding to change our law? The General Food States are an effective means of understanding these developments. I can also testify to this for having declined these general states of food at the departmental level with my colleagues from Isère, as many other colleagues in other departments have done. They highlight key issues that we need to address, such as adapting to environmental standards, allocating margins, but also, and this is an essential point, how to make consumers aware of their degree of responsibility in buying for food. This raises the question of consumer education, which begins at school: today's children are the consumers of tomorrow. Initiatives such as Taste Week, which begins this week, are essential, such as local initiatives, of which "Let's put Isère on our plates" is an example. These exchanges will continue, must accelerate throughout our territories, and they will end at the end of November. As the Government has done on previous texts, the method is clear: first consultation, then negotiation with stakeholders and, finally, parliamentary debate. At the crossroads of the many problems that we will have to answer, one subject is of particular interest to me, that is the one, and you have spoken of it, of collective restoration. Through this theme, we see how much it is necessary to accompany developments at different levels. It is a matter of changing the current obligations: indeed, the presence of five mandatory components of meals served in the community is no longer relevant, because it is no longer in line with today's diets and is causing waste. It is also a question of taking into account the need to have a majority of organic products, without seeking to move too quickly towards the "all organic", to take account of local production constraints and thus no longer find themselves trapped in the paradox of aberrations in terms of carbon footprint. I will conclude by stressing that the expectations of our farmers are commensurate with the legitimate aspirations of our consumers to find quality products in their diet, which some pay the right price and others are paid according to the quality and quantity of their work. We do not claim here that the right solutions would be on either side of this House, but that it would be a mistake to legislate before having the elements of understanding these developments...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u182	We've had them for a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u183	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ...as they will reach us in the processes initiated by the General Food States. That is why I will vote in favour of rejecting the bill before us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u184	It's a masquerade!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u185	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u186	If the word "revolution" has a meaning, it is in the wine-growing Midi. At home, in Languedoc, in a few decades, our villages, our landscapes and the rhythm of our lives have changed. Everything's been shook up. The same wine is no longer produced or produced in the same way. The cathedrals of the vineyard, which are our big cooperatives, have been able to restructure, adapt to consumers and conquer new markets. The winegrowers in particular cellars have made lie to those who gave us the most devalued epithetes. No one is surprised to find the wines of our slopes offered on the maps of the best tables. Yes, it was a true Copernician revolution that the wine-growing world on our shores of the Mediterranean proceeded. With courage, will and determination that I want to greet here. I greet them all the more because wine-growing, the cultivation of the vine, is more than just agricultural production. It's a geography. It's a story. It is a civilization inscribed in our heritage and in our landscapes. Wine is the blood of our Languedoc land. He irrigates our memories. He is what we are and we are what he is. Today, here in this gallery, I come not only to defend the incomes of our winemakers and the profit margins of our cooperatives, I come to plead for a part of ourselves, for this magical alliance between a land and its people. I do not want to pay for words, but a danger, yes, a great danger threatens my Midi. Our winemakers and wine growers suffer: while they have never spared their efforts to convince skeptics and to end prejudices, they are subjected to unprecedented climatic hazards – drought, frost, hail – and to a market that has become crazy, limitless and devastating. At this very moment, our wine growers are suffering from unfair competition, disguised competition, a kind of counterfeiting: impossible or almost impossible to distinguish between a BIB – a bag in box – of Spanish wine and a BIB of Languedoc wine in the shelves of certain supermarkets; The packaging is the same, or almost the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u187	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u188	It is not up to the name, up to the marks that deceive their world, as if it were to blend everything, to confuse everything. Yet – should we remind him? – both are not subject to the same constraints or obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u189	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u190	On both sides of the Pyrenees, wages, wage costs and usable plant protection products are not the same. In short, the game is distorted. It's a real cup game! You understand, it's more than a price war, it's a destabilization that prevents ours from fighting with equal weapons. Some of our winemakers are desperate; Some are willing to give up everything – even worse. That is why it is imperative to protect our production. We can be a market fan, but we can't be naive. In the context of the aggressive globalization that is our daily life, our region and our wine producers must be able to defend themselves. Our terroirs have a future; We need to be the guarantors of this, not only in terms of competition – I have just mentioned it – but also in other areas, which I shall mention: equality in irrigation, the fight against the salinity of land, or the thresholds at which insurance comes into play in the event of a natural disaster. This year, in the Hérault, we will have the smallest harvest since the Second World War. That is to say, for some, and even for many, it will be difficult to make ends meet! With chronic weather disruptions, droughts need to be addressed more than recurrent. Irrigation is today the real, the only answer to the anguishes that befell our winegrowers. It is necessary to set precise rules of the game, which are essential. Our winegrowers don't ask for alms. They just want fairness. We owe it to them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Some speakers believe that this text is too early. For our farmers who are suffering, and for all those who have committed suicide, it is unfortunately too late. For them and for their families, let us act now! That is why I will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u191	That was great!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u192	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u193	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party today gives us the opportunity to raise an issue which is at the heart of the competitiveness of our country and the planning of our territory: French agriculture. The future of the farm France is an integral part of the transformation that we have undertaken. Even yesterday, the President of the Republic and the Minister of Agriculture demonstrated this by announcing what might be a revolution:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u194	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u195	...the reversal of price construction, which would give back the hand to the producers in trade negotiations. I am convinced, Mr Viala, that we have common ambitions for French agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u196	Then it's perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u197	The aim is to enable operators to live in dignity from their work, to accompany the transformation of production models and to reduce the weight of standards. We share these objectives, but we differ on the method; Indeed, if I may say so, you put the plow before the ox!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u198	It's just a pretext!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u199	There is just a vote on this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u200	[[Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] Your bill was tabled on 30 August, one month after the official announcement of the General Food States and two days after the launch of this major national consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u201	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u202	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u203	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] I know that your party wants to listen to the territories, it has sufficiently repeated it in the Senate elections. So I want to believe that this date is just an unfortunate coincidence in the calendar. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group and on the benches of the FI group]] These General Food States, which give the floor to citizens and actors on the ground, are already a historic success.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u204	Galactic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u205	In my constituency of Bouches-du-Rhône, in my dear village of Cornillon-Confoux, near Salon-de-Provence, a restaurantr in love with his terroir, a passionate beekeeper, an organic market gardener, the manager of a wine and olive sector, a locavore and a simple consumer met around a table to debate and make proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u206	History! It's never been seen in history!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u207	[[Smile]] Have they at least eaten well?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u208	These General States are a wealth! What other initiative is capable of bringing together such a diversity of paths? Exchanges bring new solutions for French food. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr. Viala, let's build them together; Join us! In your home, in Aveyron, two workshops have already taken place and a third is planned in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u209	Today is the day to join us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u210	Rest assured: reflection does not exclude action. With a turnover of 75 billion euros and more than one million employees, the French farm is still the first in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u211	350,000 jobs lost in ten years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u212	Nevertheless, we must face reality: many of our farmers are suffering. We hear this cry rising from our campaigns; We will not leave it unanswered.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u213	Then vote the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u214	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We believe that it is the ideas that germinate today in the territory that will make the beautiful harvests tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u215	It was the communication of the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u216	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u217	And then we close!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u218	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the European Parliament and ladies and gentlemen, Mr Viala, I am of a generation that has only experienced crises: the milk crisis in the territory that I love and which I represent, the Avesnois, in the North; pig crisis in this beautiful Côtes-d'Armor department that welcomed me for a few years. I am, it is unbearable for us to see farmers crushed by a senseless, excessive, unreasonable price war. I think it is unbearable for us to note that farmers have a suicide rate that is 20 per cent higher than the overall population. As the President of the Republic said yesterday, there are productive models in which there is no future. It was these models that brought some prosperity to the agricultural world in the post-war years. Today, we must assume that changes are necessary if we are to give a future to the agricultural profession in France and to ensure that this profession becomes attractive again and that it is a source of prosperity. Our young people must want to take over farms and become farmers. The Prime Minister recalled this at the time of the launch of the General Food States on 20 July: French agriculture is vital, it nourishes France and the French, it enriches our culture, and it continues to do so. The French also show an almost visceral attachment to agriculture, to the terroir and to farmers. These general states are a real method of consultation and, in my view, the only way to reform agriculture in depth, with the participation of all stakeholders. The workshops, after being announced on 20 July, were launched by the Minister of Agriculture on 28 August, two days before the tabling of your bill, Mr. Viala. They are certainly successful: the first conclusions and the first orientations were set out, as you know, yesterday by the President of the Republic. This bill contains measures on which we must work together, within the framework of the timetable for a reform for which the requirement requires us to work together and to be consistent. That is why I will of course support the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u219	That's very consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u220	I would like to commend the quality of the work that surrounds your proposal, although some provisions are being debated, for example that contained in Article 1. Indeed, a committee for the renovation of standards in agriculture already exists; Its effectiveness has been praised by several trade unions, including the Young Farmers. I am working with a number of my colleagues on simplification measures and the recognition of a right to error. It is clear that agriculture must play its part. It seems to me fundamental to think of these texts in a cross-cutting way. The objective is to change the mission of the administration, which must accompany, advise, evaluate rather than be in the permanent sanction. This includes the introduction of "white-handed" controls and the adaptation of the administration to the material needs of the citizens, including our farmers. We also want to facilitate derogations in order to adapt to local specificities or to direct the standard and action of the administration towards the end rather than towards the means. These measures need to simplify and facilitate agricultural activity on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u221	Bravo! All we have to do is vote for the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u222	In addition, as part of the committee review of the finance bill, based on an amendment tabled by the Republicans and Constructives groups, we will work with colleagues who wish to do so on an amendment on contingency grants. Tax measures must be taken to strengthen the resilience of farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u223	And the precautionary savings!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u224	It is also necessary to facilitate the resumption or transmission of these farms: this will be a sign and an encouragement for young people. Above all, and in order to achieve the goal of fairer prices and decent incomes for our farmers, it is imperative to completely review the trade relationship. From now on, the balance of power must be reversed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u225	From now on, that is to say today!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u226	Trust must be restored. Trust and reliability between the State and the agricultural world; The State will take its share of responsibility: it must meet the obligations to pay subsidies to farmers and make up for the backlog. Trust and complementarity between farmers, distributors, processors..., in short among all the players in the chain. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As I said, some of your proposals can make sense. I suggest that we take them into account when drafting the orders announced yesterday by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u227	If it's not intellectual usurpation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u228	A beautiful plagiarism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u229	The President of the Republic has said: each of us must take his or her responsibilities. We parliamentarians must follow this logic. We need to act collectively: this is not just for farmers, processors and distributors. This approach concerns us; In order to achieve the goals of fair prices, real prices, we must all act together. Much more, it concerns us all, because beyond agriculture, it refers us to broader challenges, that of health, that of the environment, which are rooted in our daily lives. This is the second task of the General Food States: while the situation of farmers must first be taken into account, it must be borne in mind that consumers are at the end of the chain and have high expectations in terms of quality, health and the environment. Measures were announced yesterday, including the payment of EUR 200 million in direct aid for environmental services. This is a first step; We must continue in this direction. You are calling for solutions to deal with an emergency situation. We understand and subscribe to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u230	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u231	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] That is why we must accompany the announcements of the President of the Republic and work together on future ordinances, which must be presented in the first half of 2018 – in other words tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u232	It is today that we must act!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u233	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the quality of the remarks made this morning in the Chamber. This shows how important agriculture is to you, which I will call emotional. I have no doubt that each of you has very strong ties with its territory. This also reflects the way farmers in France are doing their job. It's not a profession like any other; It is a profession that arouses a very strong attachment. Many have mentioned this: the farm France is characterized by the fact that the men and women who make it live are viscerally attached to their activity and to the quality of the products they produce every day. Three pillars of French agriculture were mentioned this morning. You can see that it's all a matter of dosage, according to the edge. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] The first pillar is food. We all agree that agriculture has the primary purpose of feeding the population. I mean, everywhere in our countryside, very high quality food is produced every day; the first concern of the farmer is to produce quality products. The second pillar is the environment. Agriculture has often been stigmatized as potentially destructive of the environment, while farmers rightly point out, in sometimes controversial debates, that they are the first to respect the environment, to want to preserve it, to maintain it and to ensure that we pass it on to future generations in the best possible conditions. The third pillar is at the heart of our discussions today, and we must respond to the challenge it poses: it is the economic vocation of agriculture. Although agriculture must feed and preserve the environment, it must also enable the men and women who practice it to live and live decently. On this point, it has been said, French agriculture has been in crisis for years and needs the political world – especially, national – to provide answers. It is no longer tolerable today that farmers live on incomes well below the poverty line, which sometimes amount to only a few hundred euros per month – and again, when there are, since too many farmers cannot even pay at the end of the month. Third thing I would like to say: in recent years, French agriculture has been able to cope with a number of changes with courage, determination and resilience, while taking into account developments in the surrounding world. The first change was that of consumer expectations. The higher their level of demand, the higher the level of involvement of farmers in improving the quality of their production, which has involved many set-aside and substantive work. The second change is the health and regulatory requirement, the weight of which is described today, but to which farmers have agreed to comply and bend each day. The third change: the economic requirement linked to the globalisation of trade and competitiveness, not only between French territories but also in Europe and the world. Ended, these requirements allow us to measure how difficult the farming profession has become – it must be recognized here. Fourth point: there has been much talk of delays, anachronisms, etc. For many years, French agriculture has been suffering, for years we have deplored the decline in the number of farms, for years we have seen the decline in agricultural incomes, for years we have been moving regularly when the agricultural world is, unfortunately, struck by tragedies such as suicides, and for years we have been delaying political responses. I do not believe that such a situation can last much longer. I say this morning seriously: let us not let farmers look forward to solutions that would never happen. It is absolutely necessary to answer them. Last point: the more political aspect. I am told here this morning that the presentation of this text would be a form of opportunism while the General Food States, the EGAs, are taking place. I register falsely against such an assertion and have factual evidence to show that it is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u235	You're right! It's not serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u236	I just showed one of our colleagues in the majority the original text of this bill, dated March 2017: I'm not making up anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u237	Under the old legislature!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u238	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I don't dispute it, but there's still not a wall between yesterday and today! I worked on this text with my colleagues for two years, between 2015 and 2017, and it was tabled in March 2017!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u239	The majority have a bad trial!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u240	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] What I want to tell you about this is that we cannot be accused today of having proposed this text in August 2017 to obstruct the work of the EGAs! I can't let that say!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u241	The clocks are back on time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u242	It was written before and tabled, under the current legislature, on August 13...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u243	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u244	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...by me – I ask the services of the Assembly to confirm it if necessary – and then registered at the service of the meeting on 30 August, probably due to the leave of the officers. The submission on August 13 is simply due to the fact that the bill had to be tabled before the 15th in order to be discussed in the context of our group's first "niche," today. Again, it was before the announcement of the launch of the EGA! Stop serving me this argument of opportunism: there is none! I would add that, given my roots and our commitment to the future of agriculture, I would not allow myself any controversy which, in this respect, does not interest me in any way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u246	This is the beginning of the new world. The new majority was elected on a simple basis: to break the lines between the right and the left, to learn to work beyond ideological divides, to integrate all good ideas into politics, wherever they come from.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u247	Let's move on to action!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u248	And the French have heard you, as have a number of us here, of which I am a member, on the right side of the Chamber, since I have voted in my soul and in my conscience many of the texts that you have proposed, considering that common sense should prevail over other considerations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u249	It's one-way!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u250	This has a limit: now the reciprocal must be true.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u251	It's not giving-giving!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u252	It will not be long before all the amendments proposed by the oppositions and all the bills tabled by them in this House can be swept away with a back of the hand...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u253	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u254	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...by the majority, for two reasons. The first is that this speech is in complete dissonance with the electoral promises that made it possible for you to obtain the parliamentary majority. The second is that the French, today, no longer want such behaviour and that, even if we are a minority, we are also representative and representative of populations, territories, of a certain fraction of France that wants to be heard here. There's no reason why she shouldn't be!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u255	You're right...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u256	I'm probably right, yes, but your reactions don't show that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u257	...to participate in collective work! You've got everything you need!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u258	Last point: the answer you gave this morning, which you brought last week in committee, has an additional incongruity. I know very well that the agricultural crisis is unfortunately not just a cyclical one – this to respond to the speaker of La France insoumise – but also a structural one. Is it so urgent that it should be treated again by order, which, to my knowledge, is an accelerated procedure? In short, there is an incongruity to say at the same time that prescription treatment is necessary and that a bill discussed in October 2017 is premature because it is necessary to wait.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u259	It won't be the same text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u260	I'm sorry, but this unfortunately leads me to think that you're driven only by political afterthoughts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u261	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u262	I understand very well what has been said about the progress of the EGAs and the need to go further on certain issues – even though this bill addresses topics that will not all be accepted at the end of the EGAs; I understand very well that it has never been a question of adopting the entire text. On the other hand, I thought that it could be an opportunity to take initial steps that would be immediate responses to farmers' expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u263	Thank you, Mr. Viala.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u264	I'll finish it, Mr. President; Please excuse me. Having also given up on that, it is incomprehensible that you are defending a motion to reject it beforehand, not a motion to refer it back to committee. All said that these proposals made sense, that they could join some of the guidelines that will be proposed by the majority, and the ultimate answer is a rejection motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u265	It's a political choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u266	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I'm sorry, but I can't hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u267	I would like to make it clear that the registration of this bill in the Presidency is the result of a decision taken by the delegation of the Bureau responsible for the financial review of the bills on 30 August, which is why this date was adopted. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u268	Mr rapporteur, everyone here has a share of national sovereignty, and everyone has been able to speak out because they represent a part of this rural France, from which we are for many people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u269	Especially on our side of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u270	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We were talking about the monopoly just now: no one here holds that of rurality, and rurality in action that we want to defend!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u271	We don't have a monopoly on ruralism, but you have a monopoly on hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u272	I have heard a number of responsible comments on all the benches, because everyone here is well aware of the difficulties facing the rural world and our farmers. Everyone here has taken the measure of what we have to do, which confirms the validity of the announcements made yesterday by the President of the Republic – I will come back to that at the end of my remarks. Nevertheless, let me give some answers to the remarks that have been made, often tinted with pragmatism and common sense but sometimes also quite funny, which raises some questions for me, but will lead me to provide you with elements of precision. I believe much in the virtues of pedagogy, not in the repetition of language elements like parrots. No, we don't talk about agriculture with elements of language: we talk about it with the heart, with the knowledge that we have of the subjects and the reality that lives on the territories that each and every one of you represents here. You said earlier, Mr. Dive, the more ploughing and the more tasty the grains were. This language is a little dated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u273	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u274	It is not very much in line with what I defended, with a number of friends, under the previous legislature. This discourse is no longer in line with agroecology, which is necessary for the transformation of agricultural systems and the preservation of soil. Their stakes are not in the perpetuation of ploughing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u275	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u276	Instead, we work on soil cover and, below, we let the earthworms work...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u277	The ploughs are not the earthworms!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u278	...who play their part. I would say to Thierry Benoit, who spoke very constructively earlier, like the group he represents today, that evaluation is part of the control. Yes, we must restore confidence and create a climate of trust with farmers who too often tend to think that control is necessarily a sanction, or even live it as a sanction even before it is pronounced. I share this diagnosis with you, but evaluation is part of the control. There is no doubt that we need to reformulate things and work with farmers on the prevention of controls and their conduct. There is no doubt that they should not be considered too abrupt when they occur on a holding; Perhaps we need to ask ourselves how to strengthen the support of farmers in order to ensure a better understanding of the regulation and to anticipate a number of developments which are sometimes necessary. Control is also necessary, whether it is to benefit from CAP aid or to account for the use of European credits, which also irrigate our agriculture. Controls are also necessary to ensure health safety and public health. The budget that we will be discussing in the coming weeks is an important part of these health issues, as there are more and more hazards. We need to work a lot on the notions of biocontrol, self-control on farms and public control of our entire agriculture in order to avoid these health crises. Trust is never blind: we must therefore continue with these principles. With Mr Potier, we obviously share the stakes of agroecology, which allows us to defend and support the sustainable transformations of our agriculture, our agricultural models. Agroecology is what makes it possible today to gradually reduce the use of pesticides used in our agricultural model, or even to do without them completely. We cannot allow products to enter our territory that do not meet our own sanitary standards or our collective preferences.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u279	What about Mercosur?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u280	Some of you have referred to CETA, and it is clear that the agreements we sign must also reflect our geographical indication choices. On Monday, at the European Council of Agriculture Ministers in Luxembourg, I took the initiative, which received the support of twelve Member States, to express our deep disagreement on the method used by the European Commission in the negotiations with Mercosur, particularly with regard to tariff quotas on our sensitive beef and ethanol sectors. We do not agree with the way in which the Commission, together with Mercosur, has initiated negotiations on beef quotas, because this could weaken our sectors. We have said that on Monday, and we will need the support of national representation on this issue. Mrs Taurine, you mentioned our commitments on bio. In this regard, the objectives of the President of the Republic are clear, since the aim is to achieve 50 per cent of organic or short-circuit farming products in collective restoration by 2022. To achieve this goal, we have the ambition to increase the proportion of soils cultivated in ecological areas from 6 to 8 per cent. We are also pursuing a policy of support for conversion and I have obtained from the Prime Minister the continuation of the tax credit for organic farming. The transfer that we made during the summer from pillar I of the CAP to pillar II, which includes the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps – ICHN – and crop insurance, is also a means of financing organic agriculture, which we could not have done by sticking to a strictly budgetary choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u281	The account isn't there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u282	We must now engage in a debate with the regions in order to determine how these sums will be distributed among our territories. We will then see what the regions, which will thus be at the foot of the wall, are prepared to do with organic farming – because they do not all agree on this. Be aware, in any case, that we will always be at your side to defend the valorisation of this production system. On the other hand, you were received some time ago by my cabinet, Madam Member, to raise the issue of predation, a sensitive subject in your territory as well as in many French departments, since thirty-five of them are directly concerned. You mentioned the predations of the bear above all. In 2016, there were one hundred and twenty-five bear attacks, which resulted in the death of one hundred and sixty sheep and the degradation of many hives.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u283	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u284	What about the wolf?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u285	What does Nicolas Hulot say?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u286	On the bear and on the wolf, we have a strategy under development, which should allow us to move towards "zero attack".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u288	I understand the plight of farmers and farmers, and my role is to protect them. But "zero attack" does not mean "zero wolf", because we also have the ambition to protect biodiversity. Herders must be able to live from their work and their herds must be able to graze in peace. I believe in the virtues of agropastoralism for the maintenance of our landscapes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u289	Agropastoralism is not only used to maintain the landscape! It is not limited to questions of spatial planning!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u290	And concretely, what measures?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u291	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Someone said this morning that there is no country without a peasant. I fully agree with that, and I believe that the maintenance of landscapes by agropastoralism is a very important subject. We will implement a multi-year plan against wolf predation, which should finally provide solutions. As I have already had the opportunity to say on my trip to Aveyron, in Mr. Viala's constituency, the state spends far too much money on this issue, for quite insufficient results. So we have to change our approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u292	Farmers are desperate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u293	Mr President Chassaigne, you referred to the speech delivered in Poligny by the former President of the Republic, Nicolas Sarkozy. We did some research in the archives, which are a little dusty, to find this speech. Nicolas Sarkozy announced an exceptional support plan for agriculture of EUR 1 billion and EUR 200 million of burden relief. He took a stand for intensification of agriculture and called for production agriculture. If there is a big difference between the speech of this former President of the Republic and that of the current President of the Republic in Rungis yesterday, it is because there are now general states of food, marked by a spirit of reconciliation. Today, we bring together distributors, producers and processors, as well as consumers, around the table. We must not forget, and this was recalled this morning, that it is the consumer who holds the ballot paper. It is he who chooses the quality of his diet.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u294	He chooses according to his resources!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u295	It's his wallet that chooses!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u296	It is he who chooses how we must produce a healthier, more sustainable and more balanced diet. You're waiting for results, and that's normal. We must not afford words. You are well aware of these issues and I can assure you that we will meet the expectations of farmers. The road was drawn yesterday by the President of the Republic: it is up to us to take it now. In conclusion – I apologize if I have been a little long – I would like to greet Arnaud Viala for her substantive work. He had begun it in the previous legislature and he drew from it this bill, which he introduced during the summer. It turns out that the General Food States, which were launched on 20 July, have set themselves the goal of putting, until the end of the year, all the actors in the agricultural world around the table. That is what we have managed to do, and it is historic. We are indeed about to bring to an agreement people who were no longer talking to each other, who were no longer getting along...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u297	Are you going to ask them to write a report?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u298	... and which will help make our agriculture more modern, competitive and innovative, in order to meet the needs of consumers and the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u299	We have to do something!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u300	There will be acts, in line with the announcements made yesterday by the President of the Republic. We are already engaged in this work, we are already thinking about the upcoming bill, which we will obviously involve parliamentary representation. I also expect each of you to make his contribution, based on his experience of the field and his very fine knowledge of the territorial mesh. Your bill, I have said and I repeat, contains a number of proposals that could be articles in the final text that we will be presenting to you early next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u301	Then we have to vote on this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u302	As I have already done, I therefore invite you to work with us, for the sake of consistency...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u303	You've been incoherent since the beginning of this quinquennium!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u304	When I agree with one of your texts, I vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u305	You're a minister of the old world!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u306	... because I believe that we are, so to speak, all in agreement on the objective to be achieved. For the sake of consistency, I said, we want to present you with a strong and ambitious law, in which some of your proposals will certainly be able to find their place. It goes without saying that everyone will be able to speak and that I will work with all the groups in this House. The President of the Republic said yesterday that he could use the ordinances. If that is the case, you will have to decide on their drafting and then vote on an enabling law for their enactment. This will be the moment of truth for our sectors and for our agriculture. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] By mid-December, we will be embarking on a plan to restructure the sectors. We will ensure, as I said earlier, that trade negotiations take into account the prevailing state of mind in the General States. Finally, the law that we are preparing will allow farmers to live with dignity from their work, and the farm France to be bold, competitive and creative of wealth for our common good, for the success of our country and for that of the five-year term of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u307	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u308	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République en route a motion to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u309	Say you received it from the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u310	Mr President, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to congratulate our colleague Arnaud Viala on the importance of his work. As several speakers have done before me, I recognize our colleague's investment in the development of this bill and his knowledge of the issues. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] But, at the same time, forgive me for telling you, timing is absolutely not the right one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u311	It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u312	Sectarianism on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u313	In accordance with the programme of the President of the Republic, the Government and the Minister of Agriculture launched, on 20 July, the General States of Agriculture and Food. This consultation, the first of its kind, brings together all stakeholders in the agri-food sectors, from producers to consumers, processors and distributors. It is therefore out of the question for us, Members of the La République Group on the move, to discuss this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u314	What a sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u315	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ... while professionals are still exchanging, in order to find concrete solutions to problems that they know much better than all of us here, since they live in their flesh on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u316	Professionals have been working on these issues for a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u317	Even though I'm new to politics, I'm not a three-week-old chicken, as they say at home. I understand the game of our colleagues in the Republicans...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u318	You're the one playing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u319	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ... who are singing for themselves in rural areas and agriculture and who present us, the deputies of La République en marche, as urban deputies, startups disconnected from the realities of the field. To paraphrase a former President of the Republic, I will tell you that you do not have a monopoly on rural areas and the defence of our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u320	You have a monopoly on hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u321	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The introduction of this bill is nothing more than a reflection of an old-fashioned political policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u322	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u323	What can't you hear?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u324	Shh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u325	What do you mean, "hush"? It's democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u326	As a farmer – precisely as a suckler – I see the urgency of the situation every day. We need a real shock to make our producers competitive. There is a need for coordinated and collective action by the State and all sectors. We need to move quickly, certainly, but in a concerted and effective way. We created, two months ago, a group of parliamentarians of the majority who work on agricultural issues, and who now have about 100 members. The eight permanent committees and all the French agricultural territories are represented, which illustrates the importance of these subjects in the eyes of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche) and our willingness to provide concrete and effective solutions to the difficulties which the agricultural world has been experiencing for several years. We have organized in our territories general states of local food, bringing together all the components of the various sectors and we have put forward concrete proposals which we have handed over to the Minister of Agriculture. The President of the Republic announced yesterday to the international market in Rungis the first measures resulting from the first seven workshops of the General Food States, which had as their theme a better sharing of value, and in particular more value to producers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u327	He's not waiting for the end of the discussions?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u328	Only Mr Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u329	The second phase of the General Food States, which is devoted to a healthy, safe, sustainable and accessible diet and to the evolution of the agricultural model, is now beginning and will end at the end of December. It will be the subject of further announcements in January. In his speech yesterday, the President of the Republic intended to be extremely proactive. We must stop the destruction of the value that has been exercised in the agricultural sector since 2008 through the race for low prices. Within the French agri-food sector, everyone has to take responsibility. The state, first of all, must provide a favourable framework and propose laws allowing both a better selling price for producers, a real consideration of environmental issues – even if this is already well underway – and an improvement in the health quality of the food offered to the consumer. But the agricultural profession and the producers must also assume their share of responsibility – I am well placed to say it, I am one. Any legislation will remain inoperative if producers do not regroup further within producer organisations for commercial purposes in order to represent a real counterweight to large-scale distribution and large-scale processing enterprises. The first major measure announced is the introduction of a renewed contract which takes into account the costs of production and the volatility of agricultural markets in trade negotiations. This is a real reversal of the price manufacturing process, with a price calculated on the basis of production costs by producers, along with the margins of processors and distributors. It is the producers who will offer these contracts to the buyers, not the other way around. Contracts will be developed on a sector-by-sector basis by interbranching. It is also necessary to facilitate the development of cascading contracts which must take into account prices and volumes. There must be a partnership agreement that is available in sales contracts from the producer to the distributor. These contracts must take account of the cost of agricultural raw materials and their volatility, in particular through market indices. These must be easily renegotiated at the request of the producer. Perhaps the most important thing is that these contracts must be multi-year over three or five years, as our producers need readability over time. As I said earlier, a strengthening of the collective economic organisation in the upstream region is essential in order to weigh more heavily in the negotiations. Producers will therefore be encouraged to join together as commercial producer organisations. A number of European or state aid may be conditional on membership of a producer organisation. At the same time, there is a need to strengthen the transparency of governance within cooperatives. There must be a reaffirmation of their first objective, which is the fair remuneration of their producers. It will certainly also be necessary to review the governance and functioning of the High Council for Agricultural Cooperation. Another strong measure announced by our President: we must allow producer organisations and interbranch companies to establish market indicators and production costs per sector in order to combat unfairly low prices. In order to implement the ambitions of the EGAs, the Observatory for Price and Margin Formation needs to be strengthened in its resources and prerogatives in order to support the work of the interbranch. At the same time, we need to clarify the scope for action in relation to the right to competition, whether at French or European level. Only a negotiation at European level will allow us to complete the transformation of our agricultural model. We need to put in place mediation within each channel for trade relations, and we need to better control these relationships by, inter alia, enforcing the sanctions of the Sapin 2 law on companies that might escape their duty of transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u330	Everything was already written!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u331	Another step that follows this logic is the introduction of a name and shame device. All companies that behave poorly in their trade negotiations will be appointed and denounced to the general public. All of these measures require a change to the rural code and the trade code, and we will have to do so in the first half of 2018. Two other emblematic measures will be put in place, namely the raising of the threshold for resale at a loss and the framing of promotions for large distribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u332	It's all written already!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u333	But these measures must not lead to a general rise in selling prices for the consumer. It is for this reason that, in the continuity of this courageous and truth-based speech, the President has called, in advance of the implementation of these measures, for the realization of a sector-by-sector collective project coordinated by interprofessionals. This project will have to be finalised by the end of December. In particular, it requires a reorganisation of inter-occupation, with the integration of distribution into the milk sector, the approximation of fresh and processed products in the fruit and vegetable sectors and the creation of poultry inter-occupation; Quantitative targets for upscaling, including the percentage of organic products or official signs of quality, will have to be put in place. Societal and environmental commitments on plant protection products and animal welfare will also need to be studied, as well as priority sector-specific restructuring objectives, to enable the investment plan to be targeted in line with the upscale objectives. This €5 billion investment plan will be put in place very quickly. In particular, it will make it possible to take account of environmental services carried out by farmers. A budget of EUR 200 million will be allocated for this purpose. Other bills will also be introduced on agriculture in the first half of 2018, such as the text on the right to error and administrative simplification that we have been working on since the summer in the presidential majority. You will have every opportunity to propose amendments on the simplification of standards and their overtransposition, as well as on the conditions for monitoring or evaluating the CAP. I could probably vote with you. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The Committee on Economic Affairs is also preparing a mission on access to land, which will be carried out by Mr Potier. Work will also be started on agricultural taxation in view of next year's finance law. Succession in agriculture, with a possible BPI installation bond, is also one of the avenues of work. If you have proposals to make on taxation, you also have the opportunity to table amendments to the 2018 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u334	Thanks for the advice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u335	The speech we attended yesterday is a speech of rupture, announcing major decisions but also calling for collective and individual responsibility. This is the first time that a President of the Republic has called for an exit from the current agricultural model...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u336	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u337	...that no longer allows producers to live in dignity of their profession. Production patterns which no longer correspond to any market or are no longer profitable must be stopped or reoriented. There is no sustainable agricultural and food model without taking environmental and health issues into account. Our farmers have already done much in this area, whether in terms of reducing the use of plant protection products or in terms of increasing the range of their production. There is room for all types of agriculture, organic, industrial and export, on the sole condition that it allows producers to live decently in their trade. This must remain a priority. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] A number of legislation resulting from the findings of these EGAs will be adopted in early 2018. For the sake of efficiency and rapid implementation, they will go through a procedure of ordinances. But don't worry, ladies and gentlemen: the agricultural issue has not ended in our days and nights, because many other agricultural texts will still be debated in this House over the next six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u338	On the vote on the motion to reject the motion, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u339	First of all, Mr President, I would like to acknowledge the fact that the services of the House were not on leave at the time of the tabling of the bill, and that the discrepancy between the timing of the tabling and registration is due to the fact that there was the financial admissibility stage, which I would point out that there was no comment about it – the proposal is therefore balanced. I would like to say three things to the majority group. By this motion of rejection, you are depriving yourself of the valuable support of the oppositions and our group, which you will need on many issues. I'll only mention two of them. On the development of relations between producers, processors and distributors, the arm is engaged with certain players in the large distribution sector, and the support of our parliamentary group in this amendment will in my view be indispensable. On the subject of predation, France will have to weigh its weight in order to solve this major difficulty faced by our farmers, and I believe that we are committed to doing so together. Finally, the scope of the bill is not superimposed on that of the EGAs: there are issues that are beyond the scope of the EGAs, in particular that of the transmission of farms, on which we are very much expected. You're wrong not to allow their examination at least. Finally, I would like to thank you, Minister, for your open-mindedness so that we can work together on the text to be proposed by the President of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would also like to point out, at a time when we are going to vote on your motion, that this position of the executive is particularly astonishing with that of the majority group in the House. I understand all the less the way the majority behaves here with its oppositions in a recurring way, as the texts are examined.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u340	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Thibault Bazin, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u341	Mr President, Mr President, the rapporteur, whose enormous work I welcome, ladies and gentlemen, is a missed opportunity to respond to the state of emergency in agriculture. The French got caught. They believed in another way of doing politics. A majority of our supporters want a constructive approach. For the past three months, we have demonstrated this, by voting for the laws that go in the right direction. But you, the March Party, are doing the opposite, collectively rejecting the first bill that does not come from the March Army, while the minister acknowledges that it contains good measures. I invite you, fellow walkers, to free yourself, to become constructive, as the French believed. In real life, stars are not always aligned with Jupiter. Our parliamentary time allows it. This morning, I am not only dismayed about the form, but especially sad about the substance. Measures not dealt with by EGAs, such as normative overtransposition or controls, are expected. Many farms are at risk and seek help. [[Protests on a few benches of the REM group]] President Macron replied in substance yesterday: "Help yourself and heaven will help you". Wrong answer, insufficient. Some need oxygen. We could have debated my proposal on the deferred VAT. If some proposals get your approval, let's not wait: let's adopt them. For many producers, it will be too late in a few months. To reject all our proposals as a whole is to reject our farmers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I beg you: for the survival of the farm France, do not reject these saving measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u342	The next speaker is Mr Marc Fesneau, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u343	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] First of all, I would like to sincerely welcome the work of our colleague, Mr Viala, because it is a serious work and a lucid diagnosis of the real situation in our agriculture. It is even a severe diagnosis, and this severity is aimed at those who have let our agriculture run slowly but surely towards its decline for years to come. This decline, which you see, is the result of your majority and that of the preceding one, and I am pleased that we have been able to highlight it. I can understand that you want to correct your mistakes on the law of modernization of the economy, the LME, on the over-administration of our agriculture, on the great misunderstanding with the agricultural world born around the Grenelle de l'Environnement. It is understandable that a number of measures you are proposing are correct. In a way, you say that not everything is in the EGAs, but we take a piece of it. What we are proposing is that we do not legislate on cutting and that we take into account a different approach from yours and that is underway around the EGAs. There's still three good news this morning. The first is that we managed to talk about agriculture a whole morning – we never talk enough about agriculture; to highlight the need to restore the economic place of our agriculture in France and its vocation in the world and in Europe. Secondly, we have been able to raise the question of the place of agriculture in spatial planning and – this will be the second part of the EGA – in French society, because that is what this will be about in the coming weeks. The second good news is that our colleagues The Republicans were able to appreciate the mistakes of the previous government. The third is that we have already been able to converge on a number of diagnoses and measures. From this point of view, I would like to thank the Republicans for their contribution to the EGAs. It will be useful in future work. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] For all these reasons, we will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u344	Mr Thierry Benoit, for the constructive group: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u345	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The constructive group will vote against the motion for rejection because there is room for action. Arnaud Viala's proposal for a law has clearly identified the problems, and we are ready to discuss them and to act with regard to normative constraints and regulation, in particular to avoid European overtransposition during this term; so that the controls become assessments – I have tabled an amendment to that effect – and that we change our assumptions, that is, we base the assessment on trust, not mistrust and suspicion; so that we address the urgent issue of farm income and prices and explain to the consumer that producing quality under irreproachable sanitary conditions while respecting the environment and animal welfare, it has a price; so that commercial relations can be moralized and the oligopoly of four purchasing centres must be broken; so that we can work on agricultural taxation, competitiveness and the employability of the agricultural labour force through exemptions from burdens, in particular employers – this is the meaning of an amendment that the Group has tabled as constructives –; so that our farmers can be given back sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the LC and LR groups]] We want a number of farmers who are sovereign and who control their destiny within a European framework. We are ready to debate this, and that is why we will vote against this motion to reject it beforehand. I regret that the majority is not open to debate and stick to political positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u346	Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u347	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We will vote against the motion to reject it for a democratic reason. There is what is known as the "parliamentary niche" – a discovery for many of us – that allows minority groups in this assembly to present, one day a year, bills. Today is the turn of the group The Republicans. In substance, I am opposed to this text, since – we have had the opportunity to debate it in committee – I am not in favour of relaunching the competitiveness of French agriculture. But it is not our position on the substance that matters. Mr Viala has done a great deal of work on a subject that is of great interest to him, and everyone welcomes the seriousness of that work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u348	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u349	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on the benches of the LR group]] That's the rule: we know that our texts will not pass. But, in this case, we understand that our texts will not be discussed on the substance. There will be no clause-by-clause examination, and it will be impossible to table amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on the benches of the LR group]] It is a way for the dominant and hegemonic group to crush the opposition. Today, it is the turn of the right-wing opposition represented by the Republican Group, but we will also have our niche, and other reasons will be invoked to oppose our texts. Today, the motion for prior rejection is justified by the General Food States. But this afternoon, there will certainly be another reason to defend the motion for referral to committee. There will always be a reason to prevent the review of articles and amendments to bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u350	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u351	You yourself have tabled a motion for referral to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u352	Yes, because we know that motions will not pass, when we defend them! This opens up a time for democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u353	Mr Ruffin, please conclude!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u354	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the LR group]] I really urge you not to systematically reject not only the bills, but also the possibility of considering them on the merits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u355	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u356	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] First of all, I will not give lessons to the La République group on the move, because its position is that of the old parliamentary world. The method of rejecting an opposition bill was used by all majorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u357	That's the rules of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u358	I just want to stress that. [["Of course! »on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Moreau, I really regretted that you were talking about old-fashioned politics, because the parliamentary niche is meant to have a debate, to confront different points of view, and to allow minority groups to table bills, to publish a report, to discuss articles: it is the opposite of political politics! The sections of this bill should have been considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u359	We can't argue!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u360	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, as well as on the benches of the LR group]] As far as I am concerned, I would have voted on some articles, and others subject to the adoption of amendments, because certain provisions of the bill could have been accepted by all, and would not have "telescoped" the general states of food. In any case, collective reflection could have moved forward and the substantive problems could have been addressed when the amendments from all sides were discussed. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, thus on the benches of the LR group]] If we had gone to the solemn vote, which you had placed on the agenda next Tuesday, you could have publicly assumed the rejection of this bill and, perhaps, your agreement with some of its articles that could have brought us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u361	The next speaker is Mr Dominique Potier, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u362	As I explained in the general discussion, we can have substantive differences with the proposals of the Republican Group. As André Chassaigne said at the moment, certain points could have reached consensus. I welcome their ingenuity and the strength of Mr Viala's proposal. The fundamental differences may have been based on a philosophy of competitiveness. For my part, I believe that it is not about lowering burdens and making standards more flexible at all times, but it is primarily about the ability to regulate markets.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u363	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u364	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will confine myself to one example: one cent lost on one litre of milk is 250 million euros worth of loss on the farm France, or 4000 euros per farm concerned. This deregulation movement, which, in a deafening silence and without having provoked major trade union debates, was undertaken in the years 2008-2010, had an enormous destructive effect by organizing competition between the French peasants themselves and the war of the Irish, Danes and Germans against themselves. It is the opposite of Europe that we want to build. I deeply believe that we do not have the same vision of competitiveness: as I have already had the opportunity to explain, we can combine respect for the environment, competitiveness, quality and quantity of products, by reducing mechanization burdens massively and by reducing the use of inputs, as laid down in the law of the future for agriculture, food and forestry and the agro-ecological plan. We do not have the same vision, but I propose that we discuss it again when the time comes. Beyond our fundamental differences, which are the occasion for a beautiful democratic debate on what brings us together, the love of agriculture, there are three anachronisms. First, society is under debate. I was able to see it as president of the workshop. The positions are all convergent, regardless of political sensitivities – I moderated my workshop with Sophie Primas, a member of the Senate Republicans group. The work of truth in progress is of great quality, like the Grenelle de l'Environnement under the quinquennium of Nicolas Sarkozy. We must give a chance to the debate in society, which dialogues on the future of quality food for all, which respects the dignity of the peasants. Secondly, the Sapin 2 Act, adopted unanimously, will come into force on 1 November, and we will evaluate it to correct it at the legislative meeting proposed by the President of the Republic. We're not gonna reinvent the hot water!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u365	Let's apply the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u366	Finally, land is a factor of massive deregulation on prices and on the installation of young people. The Committee on Economic Affairs has opened a mission on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u367	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor for the La République Group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u368	I do not teach you anything by telling you that at the very moment when we have this debate in the Chamber, the general states of food are being held, an unprecedented collective process in which professionals and citizens from all walks of life participate. Producers, processors, distributors, consumer associations and elected representatives of all parties: all play the game, all participate because they believe in it, because they know that solutions are collective, and because they want quick and effective solutions to the agricultural crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u369	You only have one argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u370	But he's strong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u371	They participate by devoting their time, skills and energy to seeking ambitious solutions for tomorrow's agriculture and food. We must respect this process. Let's respect him, respect him! These general states are ambitious: fourteen working groups, more than a thousand professionals mobilized, tens of thousands of hours of work, a digital platform with more than twelve thousand proposals and one hundred thousand voters, events in the region, in direct contact with our territories and their realities, with our farmers, everywhere in France and parliamentarians of all walks of life, for four months. The President of the Republic spoke yesterday in a courageous speech. It has foreshadowed structuring decisions to ensure fair remuneration for our producers and invest in reliable, sustainable and fair sector plans, which will lead to legislation at the end of the process, in early 2018. Yes, work is still under way. The bill being considered today comes at the wrong time, whether for good or bad reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u372	It's too easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u373	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thus, while we recognize the work done by our colleague, this bill does not seem to us to be able to respond to the economic, environmental, societal and health issues of the French agricultural situation. Above all, it does not respect the collective process under way. The La République en marche group will vote in favour of this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u374	You don't respect democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u375	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u376	As a result, the bill is rejected. The solemn vote decided by the Conference of Presidents should not be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-10-12-O1008.u377	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the proposed law for the maintenance of water and sanitation skills in the optional competencies of communities of communes and agglomeration communities. The meeting is adjourned.
