ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Marc Fesneau and others on the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of aquatic management and flood prevention (No 310, 389).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration, ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to want to relax the procedures for exercising the competence of aquatic management and flood prevention – GEMAPI – in order to facilitate the transfer of the latter to the EPCI – public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – and to facilitate its local operation, from 1 January 2020 onwards, to be more efficient. The bill co-signed by the parliamentary groups of MODEM and the Republic in progress, which we are looking at today, meets this objective, which I welcome. It is the result of an important exchange work carried out in committee. This bill was the subject of 144 amendments, 61 of which were studied in the Law Committee on 22 November. At this stage, I would like to stress the involvement and investment of my colleagues, Ms Jacquier-Laforge and Mrs Kamowski, respectively rapporteur and responsible for the text for the La République group, which is working on this bill. Our work has resulted in a consensus that favours the general interest and meets the objectives set. First, the planned relaxation should allow communities and institutions already involved in the day-to-day exercise of GEMAPI's missions to continue their commitment beyond January 1, 2020. This relaxation should not lead to disorganisation, and a regulatory framework has been introduced, which usually takes the form of an agreement. In addition, the principle of "internal secability" of the missions attached to GEMAPI has been implemented, which represents a significant step forward. Secondly, special attention should be paid to river management. It is recommended that the consequences of the transfer of GEMAPI competence to EPCI should be the subject of an evaluation report from the Government to Parliament. Third, during the transitional period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2019, the responsibility of the competent own-tax EPCIs can only be assumed in relation to the organisation of the competence. The same applies to EPCI managers, whose liability cannot be incurred because of damage which the works have not been able to prevent since the latter has always been maintained in accordance with the rules of the art. Fourthly, the draft law extends to flood prevention the facilitation and consultation tasks provided for in Article L 211-7 of the Environmental Code, as well as the technical assistance which the departments make available to EPCIs who do not have sufficient technical means to exercise their powers. It is important to point out that this bill has an undeniable facilitating character for local elected officials, who are already confronted with the imperatives of the missions of GEMAPI. This legislative development is a guarantee of a better future. It is equally important to remember that the large water cycle is a major issue in land use planning and is therefore a priority for government action. The legislative developments contained in this bill, together with those that will eventually be proposed by the working group on water and sanitation, will contribute to the coherence of the Government's action. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] On the Somme watershed, which is mine, 425 natural flood disaster orders have been taken since 1982, 50 per cent of which are directly related to significant storm runoff and mud flow. It is in order to meet this imperative objective of coherence that the parliamentary majority intends to continue its work. Having dealt with the subject, in his view, as a matter of priority, of the easing of the terms of the exercise of the competence GEMAPI, he must consider the very redefinition of that competence. That is the whole meaning of the amendment that I will have the honour to defend before you in a few moments. Whatever happens to the latter, the parliamentarians of the MODEM and La République groups on the move intend to continue their work and action in the service of the great cycle of water, government action, local elected representatives and their fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u4	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a text which aims to reintroduce common sense rather than authoritarian principles in the exercise of the GEMAPI competence, allowing departments carrying out one or more of the tasks attached to this competence to continue their commitments beyond 1 January 2020. This is a strong expectation of our territories. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I welcome this initiative, which is inspired by the same philosophy that led to the creation of the water and sanitation bill, which was unfortunately referred to committee on 12 October during the parliamentary "niche" of our group. Here again, it is a matter of correcting an ill-prepared provision of the NOTRE laws – dealing with the new territorial organization of the Republic – and MAPTAM – to modernise the territorial public action and assertiveness of the metropolises. Again, this text raises the question of our understanding of subsidiarity, a central principle which must organise the effectiveness of decentralisation. Again, the answer I propose is to trust our territories, our local elected representatives to determine which community is best able to exercise jurisdiction, in pursuit of an objective of efficiency. I therefore hope that this text can be adopted. I also hope that we can complement it and extend its ambition through a number of contributions. Our work in the Law Commission has already made progress; I would like to pay tribute to the work carried out by the rapporteur in this regard. The conclusion of an agreement between a department and the municipalities or EPCIs located in its territory, to clarify the exercise of jurisdiction and the role of each, is a good provision. However, we can clarify and secure this mechanism by leaving the municipalities, EPCI and departments the freedom to determine, within the framework of this Convention, the financing arrangements for the exercise of the missions GEMAPI when the latter are assumed by the department. The GEMAPI tax, on the other hand, may be introduced by the municipal block to finance the exercise of this competence. In the context of this bill, which extends the exercise of jurisdiction to departments, it seems logical to propose that departments collect part of the tax. I will defend several amendments to that effect. I also welcome the adoption in committee of an amendment specifying the limited liability regime that will apply to the municipalities and EPCI under the flood prevention works for which they will become managers as a result of the reform. However, I do not think the system is complete yet. We need to look at several configurations to be closer to the realities of our communities and to the technical requirements observed. I am thinking in particular of the case where a work belonging, for example, to VNF – Voies navigables de France – or to SNCF, serving as a dam, although not its primary purpose, is not made available to a containment system: what about the responsibility of the community? We must also be vigilant about situations in which part of the territory of the community concerned is not covered by a preventive work. In this case, a transitional period must be allowed to apply in order to allow the community concerned time to undertake the studies, steps and work necessary to protect its territory. This text is an opportunity to improve the right: let us know how to enter it and do not make the mistake of referring these elements to a later discussion. Take full responsibility! I also regret that the question of State responsibility for the state dikes cannot be reintroduced in our discussions, because of the constraint of Article 40 of the Constitution. I also regret that the Government is now proposing to reconsider the authorization of membership, under the GEMAPI jurisdiction, of a joint union open to another open joint union, such as an EPTB – a public territorial basin establishment – or an EPAGE – a public water management and development establishment. That positive measure had brought in a majority of law commissioners last week who had adopted a common-sense amendment. On 12 October last, the majority wanted to refer to committee the bill put forward by Mr Fabrice Brun, on the grounds that our proposals on water and sanitation were not part of a more comprehensive text dealing with the great cycle of water and its institutional management. The text before us today will probably meet the requirement you made at that time, which will allow us to examine these provisions. On October 12, you seemed to share our concerns about the substance of the bill while refusing public consideration of our bill. Madam Minister, we regret this missed meeting, but today we persevere and hope that common sense will finally prevail. As with GEMAPI, it is important to remember that the transfer of water and sanitation skills requires rapid responses. On this issue, I refer you to the brilliant demonstration made during the examination of our bill by our former colleague and new Secretary of State, Olivier Dussopt, who clearly explained why it was necessary to legislate before 2018. We heard the Prime Minister's words before the mayors of France last week. Yes, Madam Minister, yes, ladies and gentlemen, "we have never regretted giving freedom to elected officials." Yes, "the solutions that work are not those that are placed on the territories, but those that the territories build. These are the words of the Prime Minister before the Congress of Mayors of France. Let us put these words into action today rather than continue with beautiful speeches.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u6	Take action!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u7	If we all share the view that the municipalities and communities of communes and agglomeration should be given the choice at the most appropriate level to assume the powers of "water" and "sanitation", then let us now correct the provisions of the NOTRE law and stop delaying until tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, which deserves to be dealt with today. How could the mayors understand, while everyone agrees on this issue, that we refuse to adopt proposals because they come from the group? The Republicans, even though the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have personally expressed their support for such a review? Personally, I do not understand these postures of the old world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u8	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u9	But the quality of our work in the Law Committee last week gives me hope for a positive attitude on the part of the majority on the amendments that we will be defending today. Ladies and gentlemen, this text seems technical, but it is in fact eminently political. It involves our vision of decentralization and questions our view of subsidiarity. In terms of GEMAPI, as in terms of water and sanitation skills, geography means that the most effective community level is not necessarily the same everywhere. We must therefore allow local elected officials the freedom to determine who should exercise these powers in the territory. The challenge is not to force all communities to do the same, but to make them do the right thing and do the best they can. We often talk about subsidiarity at European level, but this principle must be general in our institutional organisation. Let us also take this subject and this principle at national level to improve the organisation of our territories on certain aspects. With this text, we are at the heart of the subject. Let us take this view rather than the principle of partitioning established by the NOTRE and MAPTAM laws, totally contrary to the real subsidiarity and the effectiveness of local public policies. The Government's amendment to extend the exercise of GEMAPI competence to the regions reinforces this view of subsidiarity. Thus, articles 3 and 4 of this bill, by allowing internal secability for the constituent missions of the GEMAPI, mark a break with the segmentation of competences by block desired by the laws MAPTAM and NOTRE...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u10	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u11	... and are part of a new report on decentralization that needs to be expanded. A decentralization built around a notion: trust. To give communities and their elected representatives greater freedom in the exercise of their missions, while at the same time empowering them with their skills. This must be the founding pact of this new ambition. May this text be a first stone on which we collectively build this new balance. Today we are not discussing a text limited to technical aspects. Behind these actual technical provisions, there are realities, expectations and demands. There are communities that need visibility to organize and anticipate. There is also the daily life of the French, their living conditions and their protection against risks. When we talk about communities, we talk about all this. We touch on everyone's life, the organization of our society, the balance of our Republic. It's both demanding and highly exciting. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I reiterate our positive attitude to this text, which I hope will be completed and improved by our examination, in line with the spirit that guided our work in the Committee on Laws. Be assured of our sense of responsibility and visceral commitment to the free administration of communities. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude my remarks, perhaps with less poetry than our colleague Chassaigne this morning, with a quote from Philippe Séguin,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u12	That's good too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... which seems to me quite opportune: "In an increasingly virtual world, in an economy that was abstract from distance and duration, it is by regaining the reality of the territory that we will find man. "
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u14	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, if there is an area that looks like a "disturbation", to use the expression of the Association of Mayors of France, it is this competence GEMAPI. While everyone agrees on the need for a reorganisation of this jurisdiction at the watershed level, there are still a few points that need to be clarified. Without drawing up an exhaustive list of these, I will mention the financing issues – and in particular the maintenance of state funding for state-owned dams – as well as the institutional developments to come with this question: does river management not go beyond the boundaries of a community? We will therefore need to clarify a number of points in order to reassure and make operational this management, which so far belonged to multiple actors, for equally multiple areas of intervention. However, this bill – even if it has to be amended on a particular point – is in the right direction. It has the merit of trying to put order in this area. And, I agree, it's not easy. I will be attentive to this, knowing the sensitivity of local elected officials to these problems. But if I take the floor today on this GEMAPI issue, it is also to ask a more general question, that of the transfer of competences. Once again, I do not dispute the need, in this case, to review the past architecture of each other's responsibilities. It was necessary. But I want to say again here in this forum: we cannot continue to remove skills from our communes! Technocrats have only one word in their mouth: intercommunality. They want to end our communes, our good old communes, vestiges of a time that our "elites" would like to see disappear. They constantly navigate between paternalism and contempt for these "small elect", who would be unable to think for themselves or manage for themselves. I know that I am speaking here for a large number of local elected officials, who will eventually, if they do not take care of it, be only the custodians of the vital records. We'll decide for them about everything. Let us make it clear: mayors today live under the dictates of the NOTRE law, which gradually strip them of their prerogatives. If the mayors are convinced that they must come together – and the transfer of the GEMAPI competence should be a good thing, on condition, I repeat, that we rework and specify certain organizational arrangements – they no longer want to be imposed on them. Mayors and municipal councils must be given back many of the powers now taken over by intercommunalities. The latter are ever wider, ever more distant from the lives of the French, increasingly disconnected from the real country. Whenever possible, the principle of subsidiarity must be strictly applied, which is, as everyone knows, to entrust the maximum of power at the lower level, provided that it has the powers and the means to achieve the common good at its level. For this to happen, the freedom to associate or not to associate with other municipalities must be restored, in order to share the services that can be shared as best as possible, with respect for each municipality and its inhabitants. That is why, as you have understood, I take this rostrum to warn once again about the daily snacking of the communal power. So that, concerned about this France of the small communes, too often forgotten for the benefit of Paris and a handful of regional metropolises that concentrate money and power, we are careful not to marginalise them, I would even say, to no longer disappoint them. This bill testifies to the fact that it is possible, despite some vagueness that we must lift, to imagine answers without doing so to the detriment of some actors in a case. It's not always the case! If this very technical bill gave us an opportunity to become aware of the necessary defence of the communal power, I would be even more happy to vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u16	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u17	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a threefold obligation. A vital obligation: 18 million of our citizens are affected, threatened by the risks of flooding or marine submersion. These risks are further exacerbated by the ecological crisis we are experiencing, with rising sea levels and increasing weather conditions, as our colleagues Brulebois and Leclabart have reminded us. A legal obligation, then: that of the MAPTAM law, which lays down the deadline of 1 January 2018 and the principle of the exclusive and compulsory jurisdiction of public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – to own taxation. A civic and legislative obligation, finally: to enforce the law by making available to the EPCI the whole range of solutions already existing and by ensuring their ability to invent new ones. We must both allow innovation and ensure the application of common rules, thanks to the increased role of the prefects. I was, like a number of you, at the Congress of Mayors where local elected officials, who are very often intercommunal elected, saw that they had been heard. It is up to us, elected from the nation, to hear them as well and to provide practical answers to their comments and questions. This proposal for a law, submitted jointly by the MODEM and the Republic in progress, does not refer to the initial provisions of the MAPTAM Act; The aim is to make its conditions of exercise and implementation more flexible so that local elected representatives, in the exercise of their responsibilities, can adapt their organizational or reorganization decisions to the reality of the field, in the vital interest of the people concerned. The La République en marche group wishes above all to reassure the some 80% of EPCI having waited for volens nolens the last moment to take this competence,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u18	You don't have a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u19	... and encourage them to show either reason, by maintaining proven models of mutualisation, or innovation, by creating new forms of cooperation. This is where the intelligence of the territories will find expression and organization in the service of all. This is where mutual trust, if necessary between the state and local elected representatives, can be freely established, and it is up to us, elected from the nation, to contribute to it. Nevertheless, the free administration of communities does not exclude compliance with the rules that make our social organization coherent. This is also what guided us in the drafting of this bill, which focuses – and I stress it – on the realistic organization of the GEMAPI competence, not on the extension of its scope or on its funding, which deserve further debate and the time for further reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u20	You always put everything back to tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u21	On the other hand, it seems to us that the setting of time adjustments, both precise and realistic, for the end of the various stages of a necessary and useful mutualization for all, would be highly desirable. The text proposed to your sagacity guarantees the exercise of a difficult, even demanding, skill. Yes, it is a demanding skill, because it affects the cycle of water – which can be considered as small or large, but there too it will be another debate – which is a vital element of our existence for all and for which everyone thinks it is the right solution. I tell you quite clearly, I think that "the" right solution does not exist: geological, hydrological, geographical, administrative, political, even human constraints create as many blocking factors as factors of inventiveness. Therefore, on the basis of the basic principle, which is indispensable to us and promulgated by the MAPTAM law, we hope that the will to do and to do well with local and territorial authorities will find sufficient flexibility and efficiency in this precise text, to draw the strength from it to embark on this new phase of mutualisation, which is very practical and very technical, everyone recognizes, and no less complicated than the previous ones. From this point of view, I welcome the constructive dialogue that we have had with the Government, and particularly with you, the Minister, and your services, and the fruitful exchanges with the various political groups in committee, which have enabled us to make changes in the direction of flexibility and efficiency. We still have to deal with the question of regional participation, which is the subject of an amendment that I am making on behalf of the Republic on the move. The Government has tabled a similar one, and we will, of course, agree. The Group of the European People's Party also wants us to reach agreement on the question of membership between open mixed trade unions. I know that this is not very orthodox under the general code of local and regional authorities. Nevertheless, after speaking with the rapporteur, whom I warmly thank for her work and her listening, and after many meetings and rewrites, I am confident that we will come together to a solution that should satisfy both the state and the territories. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] With these two elements in mind, we have before us a good, balanced text that facilitates territorial dynamics. A text which demonstrates in its writing and which will show in its application that the sense of the common good is the best shared by all communities and, above all, by the elected representatives of these communities. For what is more common to our fellow citizens than the need for protection against elements? It is a demanding mission, which requires the pooling of all our forces to protect ours. And it is a text that the Republic on its way will, of course, vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u22	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u23	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u24	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u25	The provisions of Article 1 and, more broadly, of the entire bill of our MODEM colleagues are in the right direction. I am therefore here to support this text. It is indeed responding to a request made by many elected representatives of our territories, and it is worth pointing out that such requests are not always heard. The GEMAPI competence is so important to our communities, as the consequences of mismanagement can be disastrous for our populations. In view of the very strong need for technical engineering that it implies, this competence cannot fall within the scope of the local, communal and intercommunal bloc alone, and the sharing that will be allowed here is such as to reassure many local elected representatives. This is already the case in Corsica, where the community of Corsica, its offices, the basin committee and the massif committee are largely involved to accompany the intercommunities. However, two elements remain outstanding, and I believe it will have to be discussed sooner or later. The first, of course, is the question of financing: the introduction of a new tax does not solve the financial problem. It is difficult to create a new charge on the back of our people. We therefore need to reflect on more comprehensive financing logics at upstream and downstream basins. I will take advantage of this discussion to put on the table an essential topic: the system for the recognition of the state of natural disaster. Shouldn't the criteria be completely downgraded and recognition should be abandoned by ministerial decree in order to move towards automatic recognition, as other countries do? This would be a more scientific recognition, based on a list of eligible phenomena and a method of assessing the abnormal intensity of phenomena. This would avoid some complacent recognition, and would result in much more fairness. I shall end, however, on a flat note: as a mountain elected candidate, I would have been satisfied, like other interlocutors, if the consensus that seems to be emerging on this text had been the same on the issue of water and sanitation skills last month. I therefore ask the minister to tell us when she intends to resume the discussions. Of course I'll have a chance to come back.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u26	Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to talk to you about wateringues, which few people know. Wateringues are a space located between Calais, Saint-Omer and Dunkirk below sea level. For centuries, they have been managed by 1500 kilometres of ditches, canals, and about 100 lift stations. It is 100 cubic meters per second that are thrown to the sea. The area has 450,000 inhabitants and corresponds to the territory of six intercommunalities. You will understand, therefore, that there is a great deal of coordination needed to manage this entire space. They are also dikes, which must be constantly raised in order to follow the rise of the sea level. I personally witnessed the great tides of August 2014 in Wimereux, where the dyke gave way. This incident cost €2.4 million in repairs. I wanted to draw on this example to demonstrate that flood risk management involves not only rivers and rivers, but also the shores of the sea. So there are polders in France, not only in the Netherlands. To be able to manage such a space at a higher level than that of intercommunities is very important; giving the department the opportunity to contribute is essential. That is why I will vote in favour of section 1 of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u28	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u29	The Act of 27 January 2014 on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises – MAPTAM – has entrusted the EPCI with the exclusive and compulsory responsibility of own taxation for the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods. The rigidity of this provision can only be contested, as was pointed out by almost all groups in the general discussion. It was regrettable that the majority had not supported the same approach to water and sanitation. Indeed, the situations are very heterogeneous and it would have been better to let each territory find the most suitable solution. That is the purpose of this text, which we can only support. Having said that, Minister, I would like to highlight another point on which the MAPTAM Act is inappropriate. The water management and flood prevention tax must be introduced before 1 October of one year to be applicable from the following year. However, the communities of communes will not be competent until 1 January 2018. Therefore, for this first year of operation, the GEMAPI tax should exceptionally be introduced until 30 March 2018, not 1 January 2018 as planned, in order to allow the communities time to decide on this tax. They will be better able to do so knowingly, because the financial impact is not easy to quantify, since the state inventory of dams and other flood prevention structures is more than partial. I am echoing the demand for local elected officials who rightly demand flexibility and pragmatism. Madam Minister, could you please table an amendment to that effect? As Mr Acquaviva said, the issue of funding for competence remains open. The possibility of introducing an additional tax based on local direct taxes has never been a response to the challenges. Financing should essentially be based on basin logic and be based on a principle of solidarity between upstream and downstream territories. This bill was not intended to address this issue. However, a complete overhaul of water cycle financing should be undertaken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u30	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u31	This bill does not fundamentally call into question the work we have done through the implementation of the GEMAPI competence. That is why I am not opposed to it on principle, but I am waiting to see how our work will proceed this afternoon. This text allows adjustments to be made taking into account what works, what is adapted and what is less, in a national territory which, by definition, is not uniform. The GEMAPI competence was introduced only a few months ago. If I am a Member of Parliament for the nation, Madam Minister, I am also a Member of Parliament for the Haute-Savoie and the Arve Valley, where the competent joint union is the first to have introduced the GEMAPI tax in our country. It is in this context that I would like to welcome the opportunity given to the Department to continue the exercise of this competence. I have tabled several amendments to this effect. I would also point out that the same law has made the region a leader in sustainable development through SRDEII – regional economic development, innovation and internationalisation – and SRADDET – regional planning, sustainable development and territorial equality. I therefore very much hope that the regions will also be able to continue to intervene. Finally, I would like to stress that if a river, a watershed flows into the sea at the estuary, the heads of basins are extremely important, especially mountain areas. The errors that would be made or the deficiencies that would be produced on the basin heads would have an impact on all streams. It is an oversight of this text, and it was also the case of the bill that introduced GEMAPI. Through the defence of several amendments I will therefore have the opportunity to recall the importance of taking into account the basin heads, in particular mountain areas, which are the great reservoir of drinking water in quality and quantity still present in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u32	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u33	Minister, it was essential to revise the MAPTAM Act, in which it was decided, without any consultation, to include the transfer of the GEMAPI competence to the EPCI alone. I welcome the initiative of our colleagues and the welcome you have given him. Article 1e r is in this sense by allowing departments exercising this competence on 1 January 2018 to continue this exercise after 2020 subject to the conclusion of conventions. As our colleagues Acquaviva, Bazin and Saddier have said at the moment, the question of funding will remain. The creation of a tax is one thing, but the question of the means attached to the exercise of jurisdiction is recurrent. The text identifies communities that may be involved, departments or regions, but the broader question of the contributing capacity of the communities identified needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u34	We now come to the amendments to Article 1. Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u35	Through the MAPTAM laws in 2014 and NOTRE in 2015 was authoritatively decided an uncoordinated and definitive transfer of competence in the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods, the famous GEMAPI competences. From now on, local and regional authorities, municipalities and departments have until 1 January 2018 to transfer these powers to inter-municipalities. Under the anomalous appearance of a technical detail is in fact hidden a true ideological vision of the territories, that of dedicating as the only level that of intercommunality, a real superstructure which has no geographical meaning and which signs the death stop of local democracy. Not only do we oppose this logic of putting territories into competition, but we also deplore this desire to deny the free organization of territorial authorities which signifies the death of the republican territorial triptych resulting from the French Revolution: commune, département, state. In application of these fundamental principles to which we are very committed, this amendment aims at abrogating the obligation to transfer the GEMAPI competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u37	Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u38	Your amendment aims to reverse the transfer of GEMAPI competence to the EPCI. We discussed in committee the appropriateness of this reform, which was adopted within the framework of the MAPTAM Act. Failing to convince you, I would remind you that the purpose of this bill is to provide the flexibility necessary to ensure that the transfer of jurisdiction takes place as best as possible. You have seen this in our work, or at least your colleagues: we have listened to all the groups and brought compromise solutions that have led to a broad consensus. We do not oppose the territories between them, on the contrary. We favour the implementation of territorial cooperation throughout the national territory, which was not so far the case, since everyone could exercise jurisdiction without taking into account the actions that were being carried out by his neighbours. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u39	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, to give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u40	The Government is naturally against your amendment, Mr. Member. First, as some have pointed out, it is important to leave the exercise of GEMAPI competence to intercommunities. It would be incomprehensible that flood control or river management, in particular, should be the responsibility of the municipalities. So ideology is on your side. Secondly, in response to comments that have been made on several benches, and without any particular desire to defend the previous government, I would like to recall the history of our topic of discussion. The GEMAPI jurisdiction was introduced into the MATPAM law by a parliamentary amendment to the Senate following the floods in Vaison-la-Romane. The leading senator is Pierre-Yves Collombat, now a member of the Republican communist citizen and environmental group. Of course, the provision is a reaction to a difficult situation, and this mode of action is always delicate, but many others have done so in many circumstances. It is not always possible to affirm that the Government wanted to impose its will by ideology without carrying out an impact assessment. In this case, with regard to the floods in Vaison-la-Romaine, elected representatives who found themselves deprived of action proposed to introduce a provision in a law. It is necessary today to reconsider this provision in order to make it more flexible, but it is unnecessary to accuse the former governments. It seems to me that defending the communes in relation to intercommunality is a matter of the same logic, and I would like to stop here for a few moments so that I do not have to go back to it afterwards. I would point out that it was in the law of 16 December 2010 on the reform of local authorities, under the government of Mr Fillon and under the presidency of Mr Sarkozy, that the municipalities were made compulsory to belong to an intercommunality. Remember: this law followed the abolition of the business tax. The wind of reform that was then blowing was necessary. Since that law, other texts voted under the previous legislature have helped to develop the inter-municipal level. In essence, for the past ten years, the evolution printed by the law is that of a transfer of powers from the municipalities to intercommunality for the relevant areas of action. We will come back to the issue of water and sanitation – I will come back to it even now, because I feel that it will be the subject of many amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u41	Fierce! And justified!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u42	The proposal for a law on the maintenance of water and sanitation skills in the optional competences of communities of communes and agglomeration communities has been referred to the committee. In addition, we have established a working group of eight senators and eight members from all benches. After some interesting discussions, we are in a position to announce the tabling, early next year, of a bill to ease the rule of transferring "water" and "sanitation" to the IBDs. This morning I participated in a meeting held in Matignon, bringing together representatives of local associations to prepare for the next National Conference of Territories. The interventions I have heard confirmed that we have done well in doing so: some are opposed to the transfer of powers, others are absolutely committed to it, others are inclined to make arrangements and amendments. The balance we have reached with the representatives of Parliament and those of the local associations, which have been heard, will make it possible to get out from the top of the problem and to satisfy everyone. I heard young parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u43	Tall!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u44	...and others more experienced. Sometimes time helps to solve some problems. You have to know how to be patient,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u45	That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u46	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ... all the more so since it is a matter of showing limited patience. The Government was formed six months ago. We are on the verge of resolving the issues raised by the coming into force of the GEMAPI jurisdiction and we will have resolved those arising from the transfer of the water and sanitation jurisdiction to the IBDs in two or three months' time. It is not because you are given explanations that you must start shouting, gentlemen of the Republican Group!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u47	That's not an explanation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u48	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u49	Madam Minister, if you, like all of us, want the debate to go well, we must avoid caricature of the amendments we are considering. This proposal, proposed by our colleagues in the La France group, does not stem from a desire to look at a decline of powers towards the commune. It is simply a question of not making compulsory the transfer to the EPCI of "water" and "sanitation" competences, i.e. to consider that a municipality can exercise sovereignty and that its elected representatives are able to become aware of the need to regroup at the level of a larger territory. The elected representatives, even in small communes, are responsible. So this is not a fallback.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u50	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u51	This amendment seems to me to be contrary to the desire to respect the work of the elected representatives who are leading us here. We try to solve problems. The transfer of powers will take place from 1 January next: do you not think that the elected representatives have waited long enough, ladies and gentlemen of the La France group? Changing the provisions now would add trouble to an already complex situation. If we respect the elected representatives, then we respect the work they have done with the state services and with theirs in the local authorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u52	That's not an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u53	Yes, dear colleague Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u54	Democracy is on the territory, not in conclaves!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u55	[[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] Local and regional authorities are making every effort to organise – you and we know the same territories – as a result of a complex transfer of skills. To announce to them that it may be optional within one and a half months of the deadline, after all the deliberations have been conducted and the unions of communes are working there, seems to me neither reasonable nor respectful of the work carried out by the elected representatives in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u56	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u57	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the wording of the third paragraph of Article 1e, deleting the reference, which has become unnecessary, to "other legal persons governed by public law". Of course, this reference is included in article 59 of the MAPTAM Act, which allows for the inclusion of the separate structures of the regions and departments carrying out missions under the GEMAPI competence. However, the law of 8 August 2016 for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes removes all objects from it, as it ensures the sustainability of all the unions of existing communes through the application of a mechanism of representation-substitution – which you well know, ladies and gentlemen the deputies – when taking over the competence of GEMAPI by a community of communes, a community of agglomeration, an urban community or a metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u58	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u59	As the Minister has just pointed out, the purpose of this amendment is to clarify the wording of the text amending section 59 of the MPTAM Act providing for a transitional period. He does not call for any particular comment. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u60	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u61	This amendment follows on from the previous one. In the Allier department where I am elected, the organization of water distribution is particularly exemplary. It is based on the accession of fifteen municipal unions to a joint departmental union and works very well. That is why we stress once again the need to give an optional character to the transfer of "water" and "sanitation" skills. Why undo what works well? There is a simpler solution than the one mentioned earlier to substitute intercommunality for the municipalities within the mixed trade unions. It is sufficient to give an optional character to the transfer of skills in order to avoid undoing what works well. It is really about making intelligence available to the territories. I fully understand that certain situations require intercommunality to take charge of things. But where it is not necessary, let us maintain what exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u62	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u63	The rapporteur, Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge, has the floor to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u64	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u65	I have before me two amendments, Nos 79 and 23, which may be submitted to a joint debate. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u66	The aim of this amendment is to enable departments and regions wishing to do so to continue their interventions in the field of GEMAPI competence after 1 January 2020. Departments and regions will then have to conclude an agreement with the relevant EPCIs in order to clarify their respective roles and possible conditions for exercising jurisdiction. It also seeks to ensure that municipalities are no longer party to these conventions. Since the EPCIs will have sole competence in the field of GEMAPI competence within the municipal block as from 1 January 2018, no provision should be made for the municipalities to be signatories to these conventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u67	Mrs Kamowski has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u68	The aim of this amendment is to allow regions carrying out at least one of the tasks arising from the GEMAPI competence to continue their commitments in this area after 1 January 2020 if they so wish. The Government's amendment goes in the same direction and seems to be better drafted than ours, because it also takes into account the conclusion of a convention between the region and the relevant EPCI, similar to those concluded between EPCI and departments. We therefore withdraw our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u69	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 79?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u70	The amendment provides for the regions currently responsible for GEMAPI to remain so after the transitional period ending on 1 January 2020. We have dealt with this issue in committee. It is true that some regions are currently managing important flood prevention works. If they do not continue to manage these works directly, they will be able to continue to participate in the management of the GEMAPI competence, in particular through the funding they provide under the State-region contracts and European funds. As a result, the regions play their role as head of territorial planning and financer of major territorial investments. The Government proposes to go further and retain the competence of the regions concerned at the end of the transitional period. The committee is in favour of this proposal, which shows that the majority of the pressing demands of the territories are being listened to.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u71	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u72	In most cases, they have organized themselves to ensure the protection of their populations. Depending on the needs identified locally, they want – and this is legitimate – to keep this organisation as long as it has proven its effectiveness. The committee is therefore in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u73	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u74	"Listen to the majority of the pressing demands of the territories": I would not venture to make such extreme remarks, rapporteur! It is important to recall the logic behind this amendment, which is not to our displeasure and which we will support, especially since some members of our group have tabled a similar one. This clearly reflects the logic of the MAPTAM and NOTRE Acts of assigning exclusive blocks of skills to certain levels of communities. GEMAPI jurisdiction is a shared jurisdiction across all levels of communities, and we are particularly supportive of that jurisdiction. We are clearly emerging from the logic of the NOTRE law to enter into a true logic of subsidiarity. Let's hope that we will vote in the future for other texts on other skills that also need to be shared among several levels of communities!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u75	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u76	At the risk of disappointing you, Member, one must distinguish the exercise of competence from contributing to its exercise. I did agree with the President of the Assembly of the French Departments, who once asked me to include the departments in the system of transfer of powers. He said to me: "I am not asking for competence but for the possibility of continuing the work started"; "I don't even ask for money! He told me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u77	[[Smile]] He was wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u78	Skills are therefore not shared; They are well transferred to inter-communities, with departments and now regions benefiting from the possibility of contributing to the exercise of competence on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u79	I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u80	The purpose of this bill is to give departments the opportunity to intervene on the financing of the large water cycle and on the management of the coast line. I, like all of our colleagues, welcome the consensus on this idea from experience on the ground, as it will allow for better account to be taken of the realities. The treaty arrangement introduced in committee is balanced. It makes it possible to organize in a concerted way the action of the various stakeholders. However, it seems useful to me to include in the deliberations a clear definition of the level of intervention, i.e. the scale at which public action should be taken. Indeed, hydrographic phenomena such as the coastal line or rivers ignore administrative divisions. They must be understood consistently, at the hydro-sedimentary unit scale for one and the watershed for the other. For this reason, the purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the agreement concluded between the Department and the EPCI for five years determines, in addition to their tasks, their funding arrangements and the coordination of their actions, the scale of action adapted to the hydrographic phenomenon to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u82	The amendment provides that the convention determines the scale of action adapted to the hydrographic phenomenon. On the form, it would be preferable to refer to the watershed. In substance, it does not seem appropriate to define the content of the convention too precisely, since it is conceived as a flexible tool, available to elected officials and communities, to define their collaboration and the implementation of the competence. But the latter have the freedom to repeat this definition. We share your hope that this reform will be carried out in a collaborative manner and allow the necessary territorial solidarity to be put in place, but we hope that this amendment will be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u84	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u85	Mr Maquet, would you like to withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u86	We touch at the heart of the subject: it is necessary to maintain solidarity at the territorial level and to maintain the coherence of public action. For my part, I am very invested in the management of the coast line, and signatory to a program of flood prevention actions – PAPI. Without consistency, the books we create will not be relevant. The Picard coast is impacted by what happened on the Normandy coast. The future convention, which will go beyond the scope of the department, must allow for some coherence. I am not against withdrawing my amendment, but we must find answers in these conventions. And how can they be found if the funds of the departments are not influenced by territorial coherence and solidarity?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u87	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u88	First of all, I would like to welcome the work done in committee, which has led to the introduction of the concept of "convention", which is essential in the sharing of the exercise of this competence. But once the various actors have gathered around the table, it is the question of the financing of competence that arises. Territorial solidarity is important in the development of river basins and river basins: tax revenues are not necessarily where the investment needs are greatest. The purpose of this amendment is to allow the Department to include funding clauses in the Convention. It would then become a tool of territorial solidarity, since the department could organize the financial flows there.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u89	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u90	This amendment would allow the department to replace the EPCIs to implement the GEMAPI tax. Your concern, as I understand it, is to provide the departments with the financial means to exercise their competence in the field of GEMAPI, in view of the financial efforts that will be required in the years to come. I do not think that the use of this tax is the best solution. The methods of its calculation and its recovery attach it strongly to the communal bloc; implementation by the Department could pose significant challenges. Moreover, the departments have much more effective means of financing, sometimes under-used: the Barnier Fund, regional grants, and especially European funds. More generally, GEMAPI communities will have to make significant investments to see the work authorized by the Prefect. Since the question of available funding is a decisive one, we must be vigilant to ensure that the means are commensurate with the obligations that will be imposed on the inter-communities. The question of funding is very important: it is the meaning of article 2 and the request for a report to the Government. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u92	Disadvantaged, for two reasons: there is no transfer of authority to the departments; the GEMAPI tax is optional. You can't re-register a tax in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u93	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u94	This amendment allows the Department to replace the EPCIs, which is interesting from the point of view of territorial solidarity. Imagine a department where the territories that require the largest investments are managed by mountain EPCIs of less than 15,000 inhabitants, and where the housing tax, on which the amount of the GEMAPI tax is calculated, is collected mainly in the cities, in the valley. The replacement of the department with the EPCI will make it possible to organise territorial solidarity for the financing of upstream development, essential for the protection of downstream populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u95	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u96	With this amendment, the convention can provide for the payment of part of the GEMAPI tax for the benefit of the department, always in the logic of spatial planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u98	This amendment provides that the EPCI may transfer part of the GEMAPI tax to the department. The Commission provided that the agreement between the Department and the EPCIs would include funding for the exercise of jurisdiction. It seems to me better to let communities organize themselves with all the flexibility they need. That is how we will best meet their expectations. Moreover, providing for such obligations in the law would distort the very tool of the convention, which is based on a collaborative approach. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u99	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u100	Why insist so much that departments can generate revenue through the convention? The financial situation of the departments – pressure on the increase in social expenditure, contraction of the overall operating budget – is such that it is difficult for them to assume this competence, which sometimes requires large investments. It is therefore a matter of relying on dedicated mechanisms and allowing the convention to define not only the setting up of the financing of operations, but also the revenue that can be generated. Otherwise, it is assumed that the department can finance its participation in works carried out by EPCI or by basin unions from its own funds; This is not necessarily the case! That is why this amendment provides for a division of the tax between the department and the EPCI which introduced it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u102	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u103	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u104	I repeat, it was the departments that requested to be able to continue the work they had begun beyond 1 January 2020. In addition, this possibility is optional. Why would we go invent taxes again? On the one hand, we cannot denounce the fact that citizens are too taxed and the other are constantly inventing new taxes! I know the financial situation of the departments, and I agree with you, Member. But it is perfectly clear that the representatives of the departments did not ask for the creation of a tax. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u105	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u106	To reassure our colleague Raphaël Schellenberger, I would remind you that the departments have the development tax, which replaced the departmental tax on sensitive natural spaces – TDENS. They can cooperate in the protection of wetlands or aquatic environments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u107	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u108	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u109	I think we're going astray! I have tabled an amendment under Article 40 of the Constitution, on the grounds that it created a new burden for the communities, which would have allowed the department to finance the expenses related by nature to GEMAPI from the development tax. These expenses cannot be financed by the development tax, especially the most important ones, those related to flood prevention – IP. It is precisely in this area that departments can intervene and implement territorial solidarity. Without territorial solidarity, money was being raised in small territories to finance large-scale equipment, while the heavily populated territories were hardly involved in financing flood protection equipment. This is the problem of the GEMAPI and the method of calculating the tax. That is why my amendments propose mechanisms that, far from creating a tax, Madam Minister, are based on the existing one. It is a question of organising a system of territorial solidarity to finance this competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u110	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 80, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u111	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the conditions of responsibility of the competent authority in the field of GEMAPI at the time of taking up jurisdiction. Article L. 562-8-1 of the Environmental Code is already intended to regulate the responsibility of managers who have properly maintained their dikes. It provides that the liability of the manager of the work cannot be incurred because of the damage which the work has failed to prevent, provided that the legal and regulatory obligations applicable to its design, operation and maintenance have been complied with. Communities and EPCI dike managers are therefore responsible for the performance of containment systems. In addition, the regulation makes this exemption from liability conditional on the inclusion of the dam concerned in a containment system. The authorization of the containment system shall be made no later than 1 January 2021, when these dikes belong to Class A or Class B, and no later than 1 January 2023, when they belong to Class C. Beyond these dates, dykes not yet integrated into a containment system automatically lose their dyke status, and the EPCI has its status as a dyke manager. However, the law does not expressly provide for the principles applicable to the liability of EPCIs, which will become the main managers of dikes, in particular through the provision of works, during the transitional period between the time that the existing dikes are officially in charge and the time when these dikes have been effectively regulated in the containment system, which ends with an authorisation issued by the State. This amendment therefore provides that, if damage occurs after the transfer of the GEMAPI jurisdiction to the EPCI, but before the expiry of the time limit for the issuance of the containment system authorisations, then the liability of the manager of the work may not be incurred, during that transitional period, because of the damage that the work has not prevented, provided that the damage is not attributable to a failure of maintenance of the work by the institution during the period under review. If the containment system is declared fit, under the control of the State, for the protection of the flood zone against the ten-year flood, the damage that would occur as a result of a breach in the dikes following a centennial flood is not the responsibility of the manager. Excuse me for this very technical explanation, but it is a protection for those who have the competence between the moment of transfer and the time when it is possible to do the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u113	Thank you, Minister, for taking the time to present this device, which may seem complex at first sight. It was expected that he would be at the heart of Marc Fesneau's bill, and would respond to the problem of this responsibility. This subject is essential. I am all the more in favour of your amendment, Madam Minister, because it seeks to strengthen the solution, found in committee, of limited responsibility. I would also like to thank you for your clarifications, which are welcome. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u114	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u115	Minister, thank you very much for this amendment. We are leaving the Congress of Mayors, and I can tell you that the mayors were looking forward to clarifying this issue. In fact, in a few weeks they were entrusted with a heavy responsibility, without having been given the means to assume it, both financially and technically. They found themselves responsible, but without being able to act! Many are still only in the study phase, in the agglomeration of intercommunalities, in the size of the watersheds. It was high time to address their concerns. I would like to thank you very sincerely, as well as the people on the initiative of this bill, who will remove some thorns from elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u116	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u117	I would also like to thank the Minister for her explanations because, in my view, the main difficulties in taking over the competence of GEMAPI have two origins. The first is the organization, which is being dealt with in this text. Several amendments have been tabled, in particular in response to the entanglement of competences between the various trade unions managing the EPCIs. The second source of these difficulties is the transfer of responsibility, scheduled for 1 January 2018. There is nothing to prevent climate events from causing floods as early as 2 January. It is a source of concern for communities and elected officials who are wondering how to deal with this issue. It seems to me that this amendment responds with clarity in that it seeks to clarify the responsibility for start-up, the transitional responsibility and the time when the EPCIs will be fully responsible. The rapporteur has explained this very well in her report, many books are seriously overdue. It will therefore take quite a long time from the moment we exercise our competence legally to the time when we can really respond to the risks of flooding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u118	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u119	Madam Minister, if we are here, it is that successive governments, all majorities, have not taken the necessary steps to maintain the rivers, when the state was competent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u120	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u121	I take my share of responsibility, since I was a Member of Parliament in the majority, in the opposition, and I still am, in the face of a new majority. I will do as everyone else, Madam Minister: thank you, but also call on you to review the dates at the end of the procedure for the preparation of this text. Remember, we are tomorrow on the 1st of December 2017, and you would like territories, which are not yet fully organized for this purpose, to realize before December 2019, what the state has not done in thirty or forty years. Article 2 of the proposed law provides that the Government shall submit an evaluation report to Parliament, within six months of the entry into force of the law, on the consequences for river management of the transfer of this jurisdiction to the EPCI on 1 January 2018. In particular, this report will have to consider desirable institutional and financial innovations. This report should therefore be submitted to us in July or September next year. Only eighteen months will then remain until December 2019 for elected officials who have in their territory dikes in category B and a little more for those who have in category C, to cover themselves in case of risk, where the State has not been able to do its job in thirty or forty years. I welcome this progress, Madam Minister, but, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I invite you to take advantage of the legislative process to extend this time limit, which is far too short.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u122	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u123	Pending this text, the State had made financial commitments. For example, it had advanced aid for flood prevention programmes – PAPI – up to 40% for dam-type protection and 50% for field-of-expansion prevention. In addition, water agencies were required to provide 50 per cent of assistance to aquatic restoration projects. However, these agencies have been tapped by EUR 500 million. Will the promised aid be paid? Above all, is the proportion of aid likely to vary from one water agency to another according to its wealth and priorities? Will the State maintain its 40 % aid targets for typical dam protection work?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u124	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u125	The Barnier fund is mobilised to finance the maintenance of the dykes of the large rivers, before their transfer. With regard to the report, I did not mention the date of January, which is the date of the entry into force of the measure. This date concerns the law. Let's go back to the dikes. There is now a ceiling of 15 million per year per basin. It is envisaged to deplete this fund, in the 2019 Finance Bill, so that the maximum amount of work can be done before the transfer, if there is a transfer, according to the conclusions of the report and the assessment of the expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u126	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u127	This amendment came from the work of the committee. We voted for the possibility of delegating GEMAPI jurisdiction to a union. It is a derogation from the common law of trade unions that already exists for EPAGE – public water management and development establishments – and the EPTB – public territorial basin establishment – since the MAPTAM law. This responds to a strong demand to allow the delegation of this jurisdiction, or parts thereof, to unlabelled mixed unions. To convince everyone here of the expectations expressed in the hearing, I will give some examples. The metropolis of Grenoble wanted to favour the delegation but could not do so, as the joint union of the water basins of Isère, the Symbhi, had neither the label EPAGE nor the label EPTB. In the Camargue, the joint interregional union for the development of the dykes of the Rhône delta and the sea, the SYMADREM, is an unlabelled trade union but nevertheless very competent to manage the protective structures. His situation will therefore not allow the EPCIs to delegate this competence to him on 1 January 2018 and to work closely with him. I have also been told of the examples of the community of agglomeration of Valparisis, in Val-d'Oise, which wishes to delegate the competence GEMAPI as soon as possible to the SMSO – the joint union of planning, management and maintenance of the banks of the Seine and the Oise – as well as of the community of agglomeration Saint-Germain Boucles de Seine, in the Yvelines, whose office of mayors expressed itself in the same way. We could cite many more examples, as there are still a large number of non-labelled trade unions. That is why I would like us to maintain this possibility of delegation to the trade unions under ordinary law, however, by limiting it in time, in order to mark our desire to promote, in the long run, the groupings in EPDB or EPAGE. To that end, we have tabled with Mrs Kamowski an amendment which tends to include the delegation in Article 1, instead of Article 3, and to limit it to two years. We hope that the Minister will accept this compromise.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u129	Favourable opinion. The rapporteur explained clearly the need to encourage groupings, within two years, in EPAGE or EPTB.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u130	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u131	I welcome the work of President Marc Fesneau and the rapporteur. This text is good because it enshrines the principle of common sense and subsidiarity, which is to avoid as much as possible multiplying structures when some already operate. Among these, we include the regional nature parks – PNR – that have chosen to pool fragile natural and cultural heritages, in order to better value them. The boundaries of these parks sometimes far exceed the perimeters of the EPCI and the departments. Some are already obliged, by their charter, to work in the fields of GEMAPI – I am thinking in particular of the PNR of Brière, the Haute Vallée de Chevreuse, the Haut-Jura, the French Gâtinais, the Livradois-Forez, the Marais du Cotentin and Bessin, the Marais-Poitevin, the Morvan, the Périgord-Limousin, the Côte d'Émeraude, the Vercors and the Verdon. As it stands, the MAPTAM Act prevents the EPCIs from delegating to the NRP the powers they already exercise under the charter signed with the communities from which they originate. In the name of efficiency and subsidiarity, I call on all Members to vote for this amendment, which will allow communities to delegate to the "open" unions, including the NRPs, some of the competencies in the GEMAPI area. If this amendment is not voted on, I have tabled an alternative amendment No 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u133	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u134	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u135	We will support this common sense amendment, but we will still have to ask ourselves the question on a case-by-case basis. I would also like to know more about this two-year delay, Madam Minister. I fear that the implementation of the EPTBs is not so simple in some territories. If the geographic breakdown of a watershed is theoretically simple, it may be that the discussion of regional organizational patterns is relatively complex and only slowly moving forward. One day or the other, the company will be confronted with local institutional logics which may hinder the enlargement of a union which would be destined to become an EPTB throughout its basin, for example, because of the distribution of an EPCI over different basins at the end of the race. It won't be easy to settle. I am therefore very much in favour of the amendment, but I fear that in some cases two years are not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u136	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u137	The issue will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis within two years. The more time you leave, the more things get dilute. In order to be effective, there will have to be a genuine political will to encourage the transformation of trade unions into public basin institutions or EPAGE. The Government will ask the prefects to be extremely vigilant and to accompany this transformation. We are committed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u138	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 81, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u139	This amendment allows EPCIs with their own taxation powers to decide, by deliberation taken before 1 January 2018, to transfer all or some of the tasks related to the GEMAPI competence to a union of municipalities or to a mixed union.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u141	This amendment specifies the wording of the provision adopted in committee allowing EPCIs who do not yet have the GEMAPI competence to deliberate on the transfer of the latter to a mixed union, provided that on the date of that event the trade union exercises jurisdiction. It provides a flexibility that has been asked of us several times during the hearings. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u142	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 37 and 45. Mr Martial Saddier has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u143	The aim of this amendment is to ensure that the flexibility that we all wish to see introduced does not undermine the overall coherence of actions in the field of GEMAPI. Minister, the Government is free to respond or not – I say it with the utmost respect. I have asked a question, which seems to be of concern to many of us, about the short time taken to transfer responsibility for the maintenance of the dikes. You didn't answer that. I would like to draw your attention again to the fact that the date of 2019 seems very close.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u144	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u145	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u147	The purpose of these amendments is to encourage all communities to invest in the large water cycle. I understand your concern, but it's already taken into account. In fact, the EPCIs will be competent in GEMAPI and in water management and sanitation, but many flexibilities will allow the other levels to continue to intervene, under certain conditions and with the agreement of the EPCIs. Other water policy tasks may be carried out by other levels, as currently provided for in article L. 211-7 of the Environmental Code. I therefore ask you to withdraw these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u149	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u150	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u151	I withdraw the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u152	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u153	I'm also withdrawing mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u154	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u155	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u156	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u157	Article 1e r bis will, I hope, make a complex problem a good story. Complex problem, because it confronts two rights: on the one hand, the right and logic of the EPTBs which federate all the actors in the same basin; on the other, the right which, in order to avoid a large territorial bazaar, prohibits an open joint union from joining another open joint union. In some territories – in the Aube, in the Bas-Rhin, in Alsace in particular – the trade union which today exercises the powers of GEMAPI is an open joint trade union; He cannot therefore join the EPTB and be one of the key players in this new policy. Many solutions have been considered to resolve this problem. The solution, which was developed hand in hand with the deconcentrated services of the State and with the competent prefects, allows on the one hand to affirm the confidence placed in the actors on the ground, and on the other hand to overcome the rigidity of the theoretical principles while avoiding the great territorial bazaar that could happen if everyone did anything on the ground. A good balance has therefore been found. I would like to commend the work of the committee and the minister and her teams to reach this solution – it will be a good story if we adopt this article and the Government's amendment No. 90. This will allow the implementation of innovative solutions on the ground, which leave freedom while respecting the territorial organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u158	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u159	I continue with Mr Waserman's explanations, in which we find ourselves completely. The logic is as follows: GEMAPI is a special competence because it is linked to a special risk – the organisation of this competence bears witness to this specificity. To manage this particular risk, special tools such as EPAGE and EPTBs are needed – logically, an EPTB covers several EPAGEs. But when this organization was decided, no thought was given to the legal form of the EPAGEs and EPTBs. For the EPTBs, it seems obvious, especially in view of the text we are looking at: in most cases it is an open joint union. For EPAGEs, things are more complicated: most often, it will be a closed joint union between EPCIs. But let's imagine that in a given territory, a particularly important water reservoir, owned by the department, is integrated into the EPAGE for the sake of consistency of water management; the department would then become a member of the EPAGE, which means that it would become an open joint union. As a result, he could not be a member of the EPTB. Special circumstances require a specific text authorizing the membership of a joint union open to another open joint union. It is not to make the responsibility of the elected representatives less legible, as you said, Madam Minister, in your opening remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u160	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u161	In response to Mr.Saddier, the delay depends on the category to which the dikes – A, B or C belong. The liability regime you have just voted on covers the responsibility of the EPCI from the transfer until the approval of the containment scheme, i.e., for the Category B dikes, until 2023. With regard to the amendment, which has been extensively discussed, it responds to all the concerns that have just been expressed. It is intended to facilitate the exercise of GEMAPI competence in a transitional manner by allowing open joint trade unions to temporarily join another open joint trade union, by way of derogation from the principles of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities governing the organisation of trade unions. From 1 January 2020, this possibility will remain open, but only for EPAGE. This provision therefore allows time for the various actors to determine the organisation most suited to their territory. It will also give the necessary time to complete the EPAGE or EPTB labelling procedures of the structures that have embarked on this path. Working to implement these procedures will be one of the priorities of the State services, as I have already indicated. Nicolas Hulot and I will remind him in an instruction to the prefects. We believe that the two-year deadline is sufficient to bring these procedures to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u163	Thank you, Minister, for hearing the requests for easing and for allowing the membership of a joint union open to another joint union open for a transitional period up to December 31, 2019. This will give the structures time to ask for their labelling. After 2020, the common law will again apply. Specific flexibilities are allowed for the exercise of GEMAPI competence during this famous transitional period; Beyond that, we go back to ordinary law. I would also like to thank you for confirming the commitment of the State services to provide a response, whether positive or negative, to the demands for the labelling of trade unions. We have really worked collaboratively on the issue of responsibility, which will therefore be organized in time, on the accession of mixed unions open to other unions, also in a limited way in time, as well as on the delegation to the mixed unions. We have led to a relevant and interesting common position, setting a clear limit in 2020. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u164	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u165	This amendment is in line with the wishes expressed by the REM Group in its various statements during the general discussion. The clarification and simplification, limited in time, as we asked, that it also shows the sense in which we want to go, that of mutualization, but marked by flexibility in order to take into account the reality of the territories and allow everyone to find their place, in the spirit of the MAPTAM law. The REM Group will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u166	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u167	It is, in my view, very symbolic that the Government should be the author of this amendment. This approach to designing innovation and freedom closer to the territories, while maintaining overall coherence, reflects a rejection of the absolute, rigorous and strict uniformity that would apply from Paris to the whole territory. This amendment is a sign of the recognition of territorial intelligence. It is the result of hand-in-hand work with deconcentrated government departments and local actors. Thank you, Minister, for the scope of this amendment exceeds, by the symbol it represents, its only immediate object.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u168	The rapporteur, Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge, has the floor to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u169	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u170	We come to the amendments that contain additional articles after Article 1a. I call Mr Leclabart to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u171	While the procedures for exercising the GEMAPI competence should be made more flexible, it appears necessary to complete its definition in order to incorporate stormwater and runoff control or soil erosion control. Indeed, this competence cannot remain a shared competence for several reasons. From a legal point of view, since sanitation jurisdiction becomes mandatory as of 1 January 2020 under the NOTRE Act, part of the mission defined in article L. 211-7 of the Environmental Code will de facto enter the giron of the EPCI: it is the remediation of stormwater and runoff, taking into account the opinion given by the Council of State on 4 December 2013. In terms of territorial relevance, erosion and runoff control can only be approached on a basin or sub-basin scale. It is therefore essential to set up solidarity at this type of scale. In order to do so, it is imperative that this mission be also integrated into a mandatory competence, in this case the GEMAPI. From a budgetary point of view, including it in the GEMAPI competence would make it possible to mobilise the tax resources to carry out the studies and, above all, the work to combat runoff, which the small and medium-sized municipalities are not now in a position to finance on their own. Finally, in terms of consistency, redefining the competence as I propose to do would offer the EPCI a total mastery of the different missions of the great water cycle. Legislating now on this extended competence would also give them time to organise themselves by 2020. One of the problems facing rural municipalities is run-off. I would point out that the adoption of the amendment would in no way jeopardize the bill under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u173	I understand your desire to integrate river water and runoff control into the GEMAPI competence. The subject was discussed during the committee's consideration of the Retailleau bill. However, the solution you are proposing does not seem necessary, since the EPCIs will be competent in the field of GEMAPI and sanitation. Unified governance will address these themes. On the other hand, the financing of the GEMAPI competence will be well influenced by the exercise of the competence. You have understood this, given our exchanges: the reform would involve important projects. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment, although it concerns a real subject. The Minister has already indicated that work is under way in this regard. She'll probably confirm it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u175	The case law of the Council of State treats the public service for the management of urban rainwater as a public service under the competence of sanitation, where the latter is exercised by an EPCI in its own right. Rainwater management is defined as the public service defined in article L. 2226-1 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, which states that "urban stormwater management" is defined as "the collection, transport, storage and treatment of stormwater in urban areas".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u176	Urban!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u177	The definition of urban stormwater has been informed by a recent circular dated September 2017, with reference to the now repealed legislation on the urban stormwater management tax. It follows that the authorities responsible for sanitation are obliged to manage stormwater in urbanised areas or to urbanise as a result of their classification in a local urban planning plan or other urban planning document, or in a constructible area delimited by a communal map. It was therefore clarified that the issue was a matter of sanitation. Rainwater management, which I often hear about, is a subject of debate. Perhaps this one deserves further study. In any event, I cannot give a favourable opinion today on this amendment, which I ask you to withdraw, given the clear definition of urban rainwater contained in the circular.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u178	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u179	I hear your answer, minister, but it does not provide a solution for runoff or mud flows. In our rural areas, studies have been carried out; the work could start. But nothing is done. I withdraw the amendment, but I insist that we do not deal anywhere with runoff or mud flows.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u180	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u181	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 36 and 41. Mr Martial Saddier has the floor to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u182	He's forbidden. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for her supplementary response earlier. I am sure that our exchanges will sharpen the appetite of a house that she knows well: the Senate. Our honourable senators, whom she too knows well, will not fail to come back to the issue of deadlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u183	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u184	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u186	Unfavorable opinion. These amendments provide that the competent authorities in the field of GEMAPI shall exercise this competence in the context of a development project of common interest. This option is already provided for EPTBs. It would be better to encourage IBDs to participate in this type of structure than to require them to define a project that is not relevant to them, since their administrative boundaries are not related to the geographical location of the basins.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u187	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u188	I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Frédérique Tuffnell, Member of Parliament for Charente-Maritime. Of course, we fully support the guidelines of the bill. In our view, this text responds positively to the new responsibility of inter-communities, which is very burdensome and requires major institutional reorganisations. It will allow a specific treatment of the littorals and a gradual acquisition of competence. It remains the delicate issue of coastal natural risk prevention plans and their funding. Faced with the increase in the recurrence of devastating winter storms, commons and intercommunalities, plans to prevent foreseeable coastal natural hazards have been launched. To date, not all municipalities or intercommunalities have been able to complete the implementation of their plans. It takes an average of 24 months for them to be approved, otherwise they are simply prescribed. However, only an approved plan allows the Barnier fund to be mobilised to finance the work of prevention against the risks of marine submersion and the management of the dikes, with a control rate capped at 40%. Without the intervention of this fund, it is unlikely that some local authorities will be able to carry out their security work, and that the tax of EUR 40 per capita will obviously not allow them to pay in full. We must therefore find a way to finance them without waiting for further storms. Given the increasing pace and intensity of extreme events, we must move forward: inaction will cost more than action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u189	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u190	The transfer of powers provided for by the MAPTAM law has important consequences for the EPCI not only in terms of organisation and responsibility, but also, as has been said, in financial terms. As far as flood prevention and river management are concerned, I believe it is important to observe the realities of the implementation of this competence at the level of the EPCIs. I am particularly concerned about flood protection and marine submersion. Until then, flood protection was provided by various public or private actors: communities, owners' associations, but also the State. It plays a major role. For example, he owns 550 kilometres of Loire dykes, the majority of the most important dykes, in terms of security, in terms of the population concerned at national level. I recall that more than 17 million people are at risk of flooding and just over 1.5 million are at risk of marine submersion. In my constituency, on the middle Loire axis, the longest federal dam in France stretches for 80 kilometres, in the Authion valley, tributary of the Loire. It naturally exceeds the boundaries of the municipalities and the EPCIs, and covers two departments and two regions. The Val d'Authion is the largest floodable territory in the Loire. The development and maintenance of this type of area is estimated at several hundred million euros. Their funding is difficult to sustain for the EPCI alone, as confirmed by the hazard studies carried out on lifts such as this one or on dams, such as that of Arzal, in Morbihan. It is therefore relevant to define the appropriate perimeters, thanks to trade unions, EPTBs, EPAGEs, on the scale of watersheds or sufficient financial areas...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u191	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u192	...to enable the maintenance work to be carried out. This is precisely what the studies recommend: sufficient financial resources...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u193	Thank you, dear colleague. The two minutes are up. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u194	Minister, section 2 provides that a report evaluates the efficiency of the transfer of jurisdiction that we are organizing, including flood protection or risk of submersion. We can welcome this, given the uncertainty that remains in this regard. It is important for this report to take stock of the financing of this competence and the means available to it. The first assessments of government services amounted to just over EUR 300 million a year, but they were only concerned with flood risks, without integrating the cost of managing aquatic environments. In view of the contributing capacities of the EPCIs – particularly if they are of a small size – located upstream of the watersheds, and although they can themselves levy a tax, it will be necessary to ensure that they are able to fulfil this mission. We will also have to worry about the co-financing they could have received, first of all, as you know, because the contributing capacities of the departments will evolve and these co-financings will become optional, then because the assistance of the water agencies could be called into question by the arbitrations following the budgetary restrictions to which they have been subjected. These elements deserve our full attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u195	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u196	[["That's right! » on the benches of the LR group]] In keeping with Mr Descoeur's intervention, I welcome Article 2, which provides that a report will be submitted within a very short period of time – six months – after our discussions. I regret, however, that his subject has been defined too narrowly: he will indeed deal with rivers, coastal zones and state-owned dikes, to the exclusion of this important sector of our country, namely mountain areas, and more broadly all basin heads. Earlier, Madam Minister, you recalled the disaster in Vaison-la-Romane. We must salute the memory of those who have lost their lives. But in the modern era – if I may say so – there had been the disaster of the Grand-Bornand on 14 July 1987, which was the first of the period of global warming. If we go back a little further, the two biggest disasters related to GEMAPI remain that of the Thermes de Saint-Gervais, in 1892, which killed nearly 200 people, and that of the plateau d'Assy, almost a century later, which left seventy-one victims. These three events are among the greatest disasters in a mountain territory, particularly in the department of Haute-Savoie, which I have the honour to represent. GEMAPI is therefore a very important issue in mountain areas. Earlier, our colleague Mrs Dupont referred to the Loire. Few people know that many mountain rivers are state-owned and that they have brought enormous wealth to our country, since they are the first source of hydropower. Hence the need for the Government to include mountain areas in its analysis. This is the subject of an amendment which I will defend in a moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u197	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u198	Minister, we are moving forward on GEMAPI and that is so much better! The concern to evaluate, as proposed in Article 2, is in the right direction. However, let me go back cold to the overreaction that was yours earlier: it is not because we are young that we are not seasoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u199	I never claimed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u200	The French believed in this new world capable of working beyond traditional divisions. Unfortunately, the political maneuvers of the old world have hard skin! On October 12, we proposed that potable water and sanitation skills should be made optional again. This was a consensus among the groups of the old world. But for the coup, it wasn't "on the move," but it was on the move. I repeat to you, minister, do not see any impatience: as we did on 12 October, it is the cry of many mayors that we are relaying today. I tell you very calmly, in order to maintain their serenity in our debates: it is legitimate, as we approach the competences of local and regional authorities, more so in the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods, to deal with drinking water and sanitation. Everything is connected: drinking water comes from aquatic environments, urbanization and soil waterproofing can have an impact on stormwater flow, thus preventing flooding. This is a missed opportunity to meet a legitimate and justified expectation. We simply say it, there is no need to get angry. In order to maintain its serenity in this debate, I propose that you agree without arguing about our youth or our impatience – especially as we support this MODEM bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u201	Thank you, Mr. Bazin!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u202	Youth is a virtue!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u203	He's not that young...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u204	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u205	I was afraid that my colleague Bazin would overheat the Government's benches, but I will still be able to present some technical elements. The concerns and questions surrounding the operational implementation of the GEMAPI competence fully justify the submission of the assessment report provided for in Article 2. Its scope could be expanded to take into account the complexity of the territories and the diversity of management that will result from the possibility of this exercise shared between the different levels of communities or unions. With a view to defending the taxpayer and anticipating better management of competence, I would like to go back to the financing aspect. Should an EPCI acquire jurisdiction or choose to take jurisdiction on 1 January, the MAPTAM law has replaced the service fee mechanism with an optional fee. This so-called distribution tax will be allocated to local block taxes in proportion to their weight in the revenues of the communities, and will therefore allow more homogeneous financing of the competence; But it is to make an already complex local taxation even more illegible. I would like to share with you the two difficulties I have identified in the implementation of this funding. I am relying on a recent teaching document produced by the prefecture of the Île-de-France region. First of all, a potential tax increase, beyond the so-called €40 cap promised by the Government, since, by digging a bit, it is understood that the cap actually concerns the product that is withdrawn from the tax – which would therefore be up to €40 per capita – and that this does not prejudge in any way the tax ultimately paid by the taxpayer, which could be subject to much more than €40 in aggregate, especially if it has the misfortune to contribute both to the housing tax, to the property tax and, why not, if it is a craftsman, to the business land assessment, the CFE. Then, if an EPCI decided to introduce the GEMAPI tax from next year, the increase created on the tax notice for taxpayers' housing tax would not be taken into account in the rebate of this local tax provided by the PLF – on the basis of 2016 for the housing tax. This will result in the payment of the housing tax for all households. The inhabitants will pay twice, since the taxes levied by the previous community competent in this field will probably not decrease. This report must therefore take a comprehensive look at this fourth disguised local tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u206	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u207	Let me say a few words in addition. First of all, I recall what was in the law and what was in it. As from 1 January 2018, the EPCIs shall be responsible for the entire GEMAPI. We simply decided that, in the case of rivers, until 2024, by way of agreement, the State continued to exercise jurisdiction – in a way, by delegation, on behalf of the EPCIs. [[Smile]] All of this raises three levels of questions and problems which my colleague Stella Dupont has highlighted very well since, if I dare to say, we are elected from the same river – as far as I am concerned, rather in the Loir-et-Cher, and it is not worth singing the song that everyone knows! First of all, there is a financial problem – and that is not the least of the flaws in the text and the way it was adopted. We had not looked at the financial consequences of GEMAPI, and that is what we are trying to do. According to the evaluation of a number of organizations, the cost for all the dykes is estimated at EUR 5 billion, which is not nothing. Secondly, there is an organizational problem: as long as the management of skills for medium streams or rivers can be carried out at the level of the EPCI, so much in the case of a river, the dimensions and the stakes are important enough to deserve to be looked at on several occasions. Finally, what about the place of the state? On large rivers or coastal phenomena, the state cannot leave communities alone. I think it is our colleague Martial Saddier who rightly said just now that the state has not been concerned about these matters for forty years. So we are collectively responsible, but now we have to fix it. The State cannot allow us to face problems of financing and organization, or of people, to explain the measures to be taken. Jacqueline Gourault certainly remembers this: remarkable anticipation measures had once been taken in Blois with regard to the discharge of the Bouillie, but this required support from the state services. So we must not be left alone. Last point: I would like to say to Martial Saddier that I am discovering the problems related to the mountain, and that it will indeed have to be addressed. We will see what the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u208	Thank you. I'm going to have to admit that I owe you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u209	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u210	I would like to speak further to President Fesneau's comments on financing. I am a Member of Parliament for Indre-et-Loire and I know what this is about, in particular, the work done on the dams or related to the prevention of flood risks. As the funding and resources are increasingly constrained, we need to look to the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF – the rapporteur has mentioned this – or the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the EAFRD. It's a real subject. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Today, nearly EUR 30 billion is available for seven-year programmes. After four years, we have consumed only about 15% of these European funds and committed only 30%: France does not consume them properly. They are now managed by the regions, they are the ones who investigate the files. I believe that we must make every effort to finance risk prevention, but also the economy of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u211	We come to the amendments to Article 2. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 35 and 44. I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u212	He's forbidden. I will speak at length on my amendment No 39 on the mountain.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u213	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u214	This amendment changes the owner of the evaluation report by changing Parliament's role in monitoring law enforcement and evaluating legislation and public policies. It also aims to ensure that managers are involved in the preparation of the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u216	Unfavorable opinion. Parliament may take up such a task, but in this case it is the State administration which has the figures and information. It therefore seems more logical that it is he who assures us of this feedback, which is extremely expected and will be useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u217	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u218	Wisdom about these two amendments. [[Applause on a few benches]] I thank Mrs Auconie for her speech on the consumption of European credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u219	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u220	We will not vote for this amendment. We referred earlier to the competence of the State, and we said that we did not know too much about its action in this area. I am rather in favour of the state telling us about the state of networks and financial commitments. I think it's healthier and, in a way, it'll be true.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u221	It'll be done soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u222	Work's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u223	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u224	I have drafted this extremely important amendment with my colleagues Virginie Duby-Muller, Mrs Bonnivard and Mr Rolland, Members of Parliament for Haute-Savoie and Savoie. I would like to associate my colleagues Schellenberger and Descoeur here. I said so in the general discussion, and I thank the colleagues who have recognized it with me: the mountain area in our country is recognized by law. There is a specific feature of mountain areas, which the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has taken over. In France, this area accounts for between 20% and 25% of the territory. When there are streams, we find ourselves by definition in these areas in what are called basin heads. This means that the consequences of an error or failure to repair occur throughout the watercourse. You too, ladies and gentlemen, who are located downstream, are therefore concerned with the absolute need for the implementation and financing of GEMAPI to the mountain areas, that is to say in your basin heads. The aim of this amendment is therefore to add the words "as well as in mountain areas" after the word "publicials" because, as I said earlier – as our colleague from the Loire has pointed out – we also need the Government to look at the specific nature of the application of GEMAPI and its financing in mountain areas, where many kilometres of rivers fall within the jurisdiction of the river. That is the meaning of this amendment. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and UAI groups]] Let me wink at you, ladies and gentlemen. While all of them have seen on television this morning that the mountains are wearing their white coat and are about to welcome you, do not look at them as the place of a simple resort. I ask you from the bottom of your heart to look at them as a land where people live all year round. They need to listen to the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u226	It is not because I am elected from Isère that I will give an opinion in favour of your amendment, but because solidarity upstream and downstream is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u227	Thank you, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u229	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u230	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u231	I support Mr Saddier's common sense amendment. Allow me, Madam Minister, to return to your answer to our colleague Jean-Claude Leclabart. You've responded to the runoff associated with urbanization. His question, however, was not about this subject, but rather about runoff in unurbanized rural areas. Unfortunately, Mr Saddier's amendment will not cover these areas, since, if it is true, it can often be mountain areas, runoff also occurs in areas of valleys or plateaus, as is the case in a department such as the Somme. GEMAPI will not cover them, and there will be no funding, while a succession of communities may be involved, each, upstream or downstream, transferring responsibility. I understand that it is too late to propose a sub-amendment to Mr Saddier's very good amendment, but it would have been welcome to include this type of area. Somehow, there'll be a hole in the racket.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u232	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u233	Our group supports this amendment – it is an elected beauceron who tells you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u234	I'm all the more sensitive to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u235	This means that, between the opposition and the majority and between the plain and the mountain, it is also possible to find ways of convergence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u236	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u237	I also support our colleague's amendment. I invite you all to read the danger studies concerning the rivers of your departments. You will realize that the diagnosis is quite eloquent, since on a regular basis they conclude that the EPCI cannot financially support such investments. We are therefore invited to look for "sufficient financial areas".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u238	That in elegant terms these things are said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u239	The security of the French is a detail!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u240	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] And I believe that we will have some difficulty convincing colleagues who are not directly confronted with this risk of participating in co-financing. I therefore welcome the publication of this report. It must be comprehensive and reassure the communities concerned to the extent possible or, failing that, it must propose solutions based on national solidarity, which I think we need.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u241	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u242	Our colleague Stella Dupont has already expressed our group's position, and we are indeed inviting our colleagues to vote for this amendment. I fully agree with Mr Martial Saddier and I agree with him that this report must be comprehensive. As an elected member of the mountain, who advocates for all the causes of all the mountains, it seems to me that solidarity between upstream and downstream is imperative. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to make GEMAPI work unless this solidarity is expressed, particularly in financial terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u244	It will obviously be necessary to take precautions, because mountain communes are often small communes – and this term is not pejorative in my mouth. We will have to show solidarity, and this solidarity work will have to start with the publication of a comprehensive report. I therefore encourage all my colleagues to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u245	I have before me a number of amendments containing additional articles after Article 2, starting with two amendments, Nos 33 and 60, which may be subject to joint discussion. I call Mr Emmanuel Maquet to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u246	The report requested in Article 2 will, I believe, enable us to assess the efficiency of this transfer of powers. It will ensure better communication between the various actors and greater coherence in water policy in general. However, with this amendment, we intend to focus on the financial aspect of this mechanism. A new tax is never, as you know, felt positively by our fellow citizens. They will be all the more demanding of clarity and, certainly, transparency. Therefore, we must pay close attention to the use of the departmental funds mobilized. The spirit of the law on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises, known as the MAPTAM law, which was passed in 2014, was to implement a more effective solidarity at the level of all the territories. This report will have to take stock of this solidarity effort. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u247	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No 60, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u248	The purpose of this amendment is to produce an information report on the breakdown and implementation of the GEMAPI tax following the announcement by the Government of the abolition of the housing tax. The State intended to fix and distribute the proceeds of the GEMAPI tax, which is capped at EUR 40 per capita per year, among all natural or legal persons subject to property taxes on built and unbuilt properties, the housing tax and the business property tax, in proportion to the revenues each of these taxes generated in the previous year. Today, the GEMAPI tax is based on about 60-70% of the population. As President Emmanuel Macron predicts that 80 per cent of the population will be exempt from the housing tax, this tax will be based on 20 to 25 per cent of the population tomorrow. This will therefore reinforce the inequity of the contributions of the actors of a territory to the tax. Under parliamentary scrutiny, the La France insoumée Group requests the production of an information report to establish the impact of the abolition of the housing tax on the calculation of the GEMAPI tax and, where appropriate, to propose new ways of implementing this tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u249	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u250	On Amendment No 33, the committee's opinion is unfavourable. You are requesting a report on the GEMAPI tax. But you certainly know that to date only thirty-four EPCIs have implemented this tax. We will most certainly witness a very gradual upswing during the transitional period 2018-2020. So it seems really premature to report at this stage, and we will have a further decline in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u251	We must analyse the situation of solidarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u252	That is true, but at present we do not have enough material to do such an analysis. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u253	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u254	I understand, Mr. Maquet, that you want to take stock, but I'm not sure there's any point in that. I will therefore rely on the wisdom of the House. As for you, Mr Prudhomme, you have raised a question that has already been asked to me, that of the relationship between the GEMAPI tax, which is based on the housing tax, and the reform of the latter. The answer is quite simple and does not require the production of a report: it will be a discount. The rebate will apply to the entire housing tax, including the GEMAPI, for three years. As of next year, we will have to prepare a reform of local taxation, and we will start this reflection. But for the next three years, there is no problem, since this will be part of the discount.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u255	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u256	We question the adequacy of the budget of the water agencies and their participation in the financing of the GEMAPI competence. And we want to check that this is a reality. The resources of the six water agencies regularly serve as an adjustment variable in the state budget, while these agencies play an essential role in security, through the fight against floods, pollution, erosion and the collapse of the dikes – we have already discussed these issues at length. Water agencies are supposed to support the actions through studies and works, but they also accompany communities in acquiring GEMAPI competence through prefigurative studies. The six water agencies have all alerted us: they are now being subjected to too much budgetary constraint, even as their responsibilities and missions are increasing. The La France insoumée group therefore wonders about the capacity of water agencies to continue to fund work on the protection of aquatic environments and to assist communities within the framework of the GEMAPI competence. We wish to verify this by producing a report on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u258	The committee's opinion is unfavourable. I think we can open this debate when we look at the next finance bill, during which we can look at whether water agencies have actually encountered funding difficulties. In addition, a report is attached annually to the Finance Bill, which gives us the means to inform ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u260	The Government is also opposed to this amendment, as this issue is indeed to be considered in the context of the Finance Bill. I am right when you say that the budget of the water agencies has been regularly adjusted. You recalled the one that took place this year and, as a parliamentarian, I remember – and I did audits – those that took place in 2014, 2015 and 2016. A total of €180 million has been collected from water agencies over the past three years. You'll tell me that it doesn't justify us continuing to do the same this year... This question reminds me of the discussion we had earlier on European funds. There are, in the water agencies, funds that are not consumed, mattresses. I therefore ask myself questions about the management of water agencies and why they have moved a little away from local authorities. Elected local for many years, I noted that there was once a greater proximity to water agencies. As a minister, I will obviously come closer to my colleague Nicolas Hulot to see with him, beyond the financial adjustments that are due to the balance of a budget, how we can better control the budgets of the water agencies and, above all, ensure that these agencies better accompany the work that is necessary in our territories – I am thinking in particular of the numerous leaks of water that we see on our networks. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] The question of water agencies is, in itself, a real subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u261	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u262	I am a little surprised by your comments, Minister, which are just a smokescreen to make you forget that you have severely reduced the budgets of water agencies. However, this severe decline comes after the previous government has already made the choice of severely punctuating their resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u263	I just said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u264	In these circumstances, how do you want water agencies to project themselves into the future and support local and regional authorities? It may be that some of them work badly, but is that a reason to cut in the axe in operational budgets...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u265	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u266	... who are used to finance future investments in water and environmental management in our territories? I'm not sure, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u267	500 million euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u268	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u269	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Minister, thank you for your lengthy and well-explained answer. That being said, I refute the term "mattress," which you used about water agency finances, and I think the water agencies will also refute it. They have to meet many commitments, which they need to finance. Contributing to the preservation of biodiversity is not the least of these. I do not think that the term "mattress" is appropriate, since we are talking here about the funds they need to incur expenses that are useful to the common good.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u270	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u271	If the word "mattress" shocked you, I can use the word "reserves."
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u272	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u273	The purpose of this amendment is to produce an information report based on an assessment of the effectiveness of technical support missions prior to the entry into force of the GEMAPI competence. As everyone knows, there are 9,000 kilometres of dikes in metropolitan France, which are managed by private or public persons and, sometimes, per person. The role of the State becomes all the more crucial as climate change accelerates and increases. The terrible drama of storm Xynthia, which occurred on 27 and 28 February 2010, reminds us of the imperative of managing the sea dykes. In view of the changes brought about by the new regulations, approximately 6000 kilometres of dykes would remain to be maintained by the competent authorities in the field of GEMAPI. For the La France group, the police power of the state orders it to identify the dikes whose rupture could endanger human lives, to identify the contractors and to control the security of the dikes, not to mention the "orphan" dikes, for which no owner is identified. This state of affairs, requested by the elected representatives for several years, should have been carried out by the technical support missions of basin, established by the decree of 28 July 2014. It must be noted that this objective is still far from being achieved in all territories. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] That is the meaning of this amendment, and that is why, Madam Minister, we ask you to give it a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u275	I believe that the report requested of the Government under article 2 will contain elements relating to the technical support missions in the basin and that your request will therefore be met. In any case, I hope so. The hearings show that these missions are more effective than the strategies for organising local water competences, the famous SOCLE, which have also been implemented. It was indeed regrettable that not all the information collected had been more widely disseminated. I invite you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u277	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u278	Do you withdraw Amendment No 58, Mr Lachaud?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u279	I thank you, the rapporteur, for your answer a little more than that of the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u280	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u281	We also hope that the report requested from the Government will provide the answers that we are asking for, but given the succinct nature of the Minister's response, we have doubts, and therefore, regrettably, continue this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u283	Mr Jean-François Eliaou has the floor on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u284	The proposals in article 3 bring coherence in our debate and respect the will of our majority and the Government to develop a logic of trust with communities and to focus on the intelligence of the territories. I would like to point out that more than 18 million French people are affected by the risks of flooding or marine submersion and their consequences. I can testify to this as a Member of Parliament for the Hérault, a department that is regularly and seriously affected by these scourges. I am also relaying the repeated demands of local elected officials: they wish to exercise their mandate and powers in a law that provides them with the flexibility necessary to take into account the characteristics of their territory. At the same time, the elected representatives expect real legislative stability, in order to be able to make long-term decisions, but also to have budgetary and technical flexibility, which is indispensable in terms of engineering. I am convinced that, since the substance of the case is not called into question, any easing approach ultimately provides guarantees of consistency in local public action. Article 3, as drafted by the Law Commission, is entirely based on this state of mind. The aim here is to enable the EPCIs to grasp their new skills quickly and calmly, drawing on existing partners. I would point out that these measures concern only the competence in the field of GEMAPI and that this is therefore not a detrication of the MAPTAM law. In addition, Article 3 allows the EPCIs to apply a basin-to-basin logic, to the extent that they have the opportunity to exercise their powers in the interest of all territories, whether upstream or downstream. This approach seems to me to be consistent, both in terms of administrative management and in terms of hydraulics, since the basins do not know, by nature, the boundaries between communities. This article, as well as the entire text, provides space for decision-making and good management to communities and our local elected colleagues who lead them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u285	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u286	In Article 1, you have adopted Amendment No 89, which allows the EPCIs to delegate powers in the field of GEMAPI to joint trade unions under common law until 1 January 2020. In a coherent manner, the Government proposes to abolish the permanent provisions provided for in article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u288	Favourable opinion, in a personal capacity. This amendment follows the compromise reached in Article 1 and is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u289	Before I put it to the vote, I would point out that the adoption of this amendment would bring down the following two amendments, Nos 34 and 43. Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u290	It seemed to me that this was the case, Mr. Chairman, but I expected that clarification from you. I tabled Amendment No 34 along the same lines as that of the Government, Madam Minister, while at the same time providing some flexibility, as it allowed a period of two years to achieve the same result. It will fall as the Government's amendment will, I suppose, be adopted. As I have not been able to take the floor earlier, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for unanimously adopting Amendment No 39, which included mountain areas within the scope of the report provided for in Article 2. I would like to thank the Minister for relying on the wisdom of the House, the rapporteur for giving an opinion in favour of the amendment, and the Presidents Chassaigne and Fesneau and the Members of the La République Group who are in the process of supporting it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u292	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor for an explanation of vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u293	I would point out that Article 3 proposes a kind of internal secability of the powers in the field of GEMAPI, allowing the transfer of only some of them. We regret the use of mixed unions, which we believe is the first step in a process of privatization of profitable activities under the GEMAPI. We will therefore vote against this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u295	No GEMAPI business is profitable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u296	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u297	This amendment, which I tabled with my colleagues Patrick Hetzel, Frédéric Reiss and Antoine Herth, aims to enable the regions to continue to act on GEMAPI. The reform proposed to us risks excluding regions, although they play an important role in this area. A specific text is needed, since the regions have lost their general jurisdiction clause under the NOTRE Act of 7 August 2015. The regions play a role in the financing and management of hydraulic works. They are also present in mixed trade unions, due in particular to their competence in sensitive natural areas. The difficulty lies precisely in the loss of general competence, even though some regions are historically owners and managers of structural hydraulic structures, which contribute to flood protection and to maintaining the functionality of aquatic environments. For example, the Grand Est region has been, since 2010, following a transfer from the State, owner and manager of the water works of the State Ill, 78 dams spread over 220 kilometres of rivers. The Assembly of the Greater East Region has also validated an ambitious investment plan for this watercourse. The regions also support, through engineering and financing, structural works for flood management and restoration of aquatic environments, including outside the framework of State-region planning contracts and European funds, allowing for more flexible intervention. In addition, the NOTRE Act has opened up the possibility for the regions to take up the task of animation and consultation in the field of groundwater and surface water, giving them an increased role in water policy, with the aim of bringing coherence of basin-to-basin, including at the trans-regional or cross-border level in the case of shared basin-to-basins. The Brittany region was granted this competence on 6 May, and similar decrees are being drawn up for the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur and Grand Est regions. Given their leadership in biodiversity and land-use planning and the implementation of future regional planning, sustainable development and territorial equality schemes – SRADDET – the regions are fully committed to intervention in the field of GEMAPI.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u298	Thank you, Mr. Breton.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u299	It is therefore a question of enabling them to intervene in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u300	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u301	In my view, your request was met by the adoption of Amendment No 79 to Article 1, which re-integrates the regions into the game by providing for the possibility for them to conclude a convention. I invite you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u302	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u303	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u304	I have before me a number of amendments containing additional articles after Article 5. Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u305	As well as the following set of amendments, this amendment raises the question of financing the competence in the field of GEMAPI. Since the beginning of the review of this bill, the minister, you have explained to us that it does not address the issue of funding, but our discussions show that it is at the heart of the debate on GEMAPI. At present, we do not have the means to finance GEMAPI; We even find it difficult to assess what it is going to cost. Of course, a dedicated tax has been created, but its method of calculation and its method of collection are not at all appropriate in the light of the necessary logic of territorial solidarity, between basins-to-basins, allowing to reconcile the financing of infrastructure upstream and the protection of populations downstream. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to abolish the GEMAPI tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u307	Unfavorable opinion, as well as in committee. You propose to remove the GEMAPI tax for EPCI. As you know, I am not in favour for three reasons. On the form, this bill is not intended to reopen the debate on the GEMAPI tax, as several speakers have indicated. In substance, I want to reassure our fellow citizens: this tax is only a means of subsidiary financing. Other resources can be mobilised: the general budget of the communities, public co-financing, grants from water agencies, State-region plan contracts, European funds – as Mrs Auconie pointed out – and the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards, known as the Barnier Fund. Finally, with regard to financial relations with departments, I would point out that the conventions provided for in Article 1e r as amended by the Law Committee will not only clarify the respective roles of EPCIs and departments, but will also include a financial component.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u308	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u309	Unfavorable opinion, too. Firstly, the GEMAPI tax exists and its implementation has already been voted in advance by a number of intercommunalities. Secondly, before deleting it, we should know what to replace it with. Thirdly, you always come back to the role of the department, Mr Schellenberger – perhaps you are a departmental advisor, I apologize for not knowing. I would remind you that we have again given the departments the opportunity to act by concluding a convention with the intercommunities. However, I would also point out that the department does not have jurisdiction over GEMAPI. I hope I make myself clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u310	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u311	We will not vote for this amendment. It has been made clear that the purpose of this text is not to reopen the debate on the fundamental principles of GEMAPI, including the creation of this tax. In fact, it already appears on the notices of taxation to the housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u312	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u313	The tax is zero – only a territory, I think, has activated it – but it already exists. From my point of view, therefore, there is no question of going back on it. I would point out, as the rapporteur has pointed out, that the municipalities are free to activate this tax or not, depending on the means they intend to deploy, knowing that this is not necessarily necessary, because other means exist. On the other hand, in view of the very important financial challenges we have mentioned above, I believe it is appropriate to seek complementary means rather than to activate a process that would amount to having a competence without giving itself the means to exercise it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u314	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u315	I would like to recall the position of the moving Republic Group expressed in committee. We are completely against any work on the financing of GEMAPI under this bill. This and the question of the freedom of the communes must be dealt with differently than by way of amendment in the context of a legislative proposal. The Group of the European People's Party will vote against all amendments to amend or correct the GEMAPI tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u316	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u317	I am disappointed even before I started my remarks, because our colleague from the running Republic Group has just announced that she will vote against all the amendments, even before he has heard their defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u318	What's the commission for?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u319	I will still try to convince her, because I do not despair that this is possible. The MAPTAM law, which we have mentioned on several occasions, has opened the possibility of creating an additional optional fee to cover the costs of the GEMAPI. However, the announcement of the abolition of the housing tax by the Government upsets the breakdown of the tax and reinforces the inequity of the contributions of the actors of a territory. In order for the Government to provide France with new means to initiate true ecological planning, we wish to change the functioning of the GEMAPI tax. I hope to convince you of the validity of this approach, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that a national tax would avoid tax competition between territories, which could deter many territorial authorities from introducing the GEMAPI tax. In addition, many local and regional authorities could request the creation of such a tax for reasons other than the exercise of the GEMAPI competence. We believe that a serious exercise of the prefect's review of legality, after consulting the environmental authority, will help to avoid this kind of bounty effect. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We therefore propose to review the manner in which the tax is to be established by limiting its base solely to the property contributions of enterprises. All of these measures will allow for a genuine efficiency of the additional tax to finance the GEMAPI competencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u321	You propose to apply the GEMAPI tax to the business property assessment – CFE. I am not in favour of this, for the reason mentioned above: this is not the purpose of the bill. Then, the GEMAPI tax will be a tax on distribution in the territories where it will be introduced: the community will vote a product, not a rate, and it will then be distributed on a very broad basis – occupants of a dwelling, owners, businesses. This mechanism, which is commonly used in the area of special equipment tax, makes it possible to make contributions to all audiences. It is therefore a mechanism that ensures a certain level of equity. However, you raise an important question: will the reduction of the housing tax over the next three years lead to a greater concentration of the GEMAPI tax on households? The minister has already given us some answers. For those communities that have already introduced the tax, section 3 of the 2018 Finance Bill passed by our Assembly deals with the issue, since it takes this tax into account in calculating the rebate and its compensation to the communities, thus neutralizing any carry-over.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u323	The Government's opinion was also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u324	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u325	Have you changed your mind?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u326	No! I spoke earlier once and for all so as not to unduly prolong the debate. But since you're calling me, I'll answer you. You didn't convince us in committee. What is the purpose of the committees, if everything that has been said is to be repeated in public? I tell you again, you didn't convince us,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u327	Do not redefine the parliamentary procedure on its own!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u328	...and we won't be in public, because you're presenting exactly the same arguments. However, I would like to remind you that the tax is affected, and that its product cannot be used for anything other than the financing of GEMAPI. In this regard, your fear is unfounded. Once and for all, I repeat that we have heard your arguments in committee, and that we have not been convinced. We will not change our mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u329	I have before me two amendments, Nos 12 and 13, which can be presented together. Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u330	I will object that these amendments have already been tabled in committee, but the importance of the issue of financing the GEMAPI competence is such that it needs to be addressed in a public sitting. Then, Madam Minister, why are you so interested in the ability of departments to contribute to the exercise of the GEMAPI competence? Because I consider the department to be the administrative level most able to organise a form of territorial solidarity in the financing of the infrastructure needed for the GEMAPI: it responds to the logic of watersheds and comprises urban and rural territories consisting, on the one hand, of tax collection areas and, on the other, of investment areas in the field of protection infrastructures. The departments are in a very difficult financial situation which hinders their ability to intervene, owing in particular to the increase in social expenditure not offset by the State and the decrease in the overall operating budget over the last five years. However, it is the only administrative level capable of organising a form of territorial solidarity. Amendments Nos 12 and 13 are therefore intended to introduce a 5% or 10% transfer of the tax imposed by the EPCI to the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u331	What is the Committee's opinion on Amendments Nos 12 and 13?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u332	It is not possible to allocate a revenue – the proceeds of the GEMAPI tax – to an expenditure – the compulsory participation paid to the departments. The agreement which may be signed by the EPCI and the department will include a financial component. It will therefore be in a position to determine the contributions of each party. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u334	I am also against it, since it is an optional provision, the terms of which will be laid down by a convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u335	I have before me three amendments, Nos 14, 15 and 16, which can be presented together. Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u336	Amendments Nos 14, 15 and 16 provide for the possibility for the department to collect part of the GEMAPI tax directly. The per capita collection ceiling would not be changed, but it would be distributed between the department and EPCI, which would be able to collect either 20 euros each, or 30 euros and 10 euros respectively, or 35 euros and 5 euros. The effect of this provision would be to introduce the concept of territorial solidarity into the financing of infrastructure for the protection of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u337	What is the Committee's opinion on Amendments Nos 14, 15 and 16?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u338	I would remind you that this is an optional tax, which has been introduced for the time being by thirty-four communities. Its maximum per capita ceiling is 40 euros. Moreover, this is not the amount that will have to be paid by taxpayers, because, once voted, this tax will be levied on all taxpayers in the territory – households, businesses, owners, legal persons. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u339	What is the Government's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u340	Unfavorable opinion. You'll excuse me for not telling you more.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u341	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u342	I withdraw this amendment, because we have already discussed it on the occasion of the examination of Article 1. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to express my regret at the allocation of the development tax. This is typically the type of revenue that departments should be able to allocate to GEMAPI expenditures. I had tabled an amendment to that effect. GEMAPI expenditure is not, by nature, chargeable on the development tax. Only some are, and these are not, major expenditures, such as infrastructure spending. The areas where the development tax is dynamic are often those with large infrastructure needs to protect people from the risk of flooding, which is quite logical. It would therefore be interesting to be able to allocate the development tax to flood protection infrastructures. Unfortunately, my amendment was rejected under section 40, but I have no doubt that the jurisprudence of the Senate services will be more lenient with these kinds of proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u343	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, in support of Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u344	By this amendment, we call for a report on the consequences of the gradual abolition of the housing tax on the calculation of the GEMAPI tax. The situation is quite implausible: the housing tax, fixed at its 2017 level, will be abolished over three years for 80% of households, and in 2018, the EPCI will start collecting a new tax, based on the housing tax. The creation of a new housing tax is therefore being organized. This is all the more incomprehensible because, in some territories – and this is why this amendment was co-signed by Pierre-Henri Dumont, Member of Parliament for the Pas-de-Calais – EPCIs belonging to the same EPAGE or EPTB began in a coordinated way to collect the tax a year earlier than the other EPCIs. Thus, in the same territory, for the same union, the same EPAGE or the same EPTB, and for the same level of services, some taxpayers will be reduced from the GEMAPI tax while others will have to finance it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u345	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u346	Unfavorable opinion. We have already raised this issue in the context of the review of clause 3 of the 2018 Finance Bill. In addition, with respect to the differences between the EPCIs that introduced the tax and those that did not, the change in the housing tax does not change anything, since the resources will remain the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u347	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u348	I answered that question earlier. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u349	We have finished with the amendments with additional articles after Article 5. Before I consider the amendments to rule 6, I will suspend the sitting for five minutes at the request of the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u350	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u351	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u352	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 31 and 42. I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u353	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u354	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u355	Before I support the amendment, I would like to go back to the water agencies, whose model I particularly defend. Indeed, they have the reputation of being rich. This model of equipment management, which is based on the principle that "water pays for water", falls within the scope of the Water Framework Directive and applies to all Member States of the European Union. Today, these agencies are less present in the territories, but the number of their employees has already decreased by 15%, a trend which continues and which explains the decrease in the number of employees of the agencies present alongside the local elected representatives. We will have the opportunity to come back to the subject. Amendment No 42 aims to strengthen the synergy of assistance missions in the field of the large water cycle at the appropriate watershed scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u357	Unfavorable. At the legal level, first of all, what does "priority" mean? Moreover, the intervention of the departments will of course be decisive, especially in the first years of the exercise of the competence GEMAPI. It is unthinkable to reserve the benefit for those communities that have transferred jurisdiction to an EPTB. As I have already pointed out, the EPTBs retain their relevance and are intended to eventually take over from smaller unions, if only because the prefect of the basin can order their creation when it seems relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u358	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u359	Unfavorable opinion. We are in the context of a contract based on the will of the departments. They must remain free to determine for themselves the content of their convention, its scope and its financial considerations. Furthermore, there is no prohibition on departments participating in the EPTBs to carry out their technical assistance tasks through the mixed trade unions. These two amendments do not seem useful to me, and I ask for them to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u360	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u361	In the light of the explanations given by the rapporteur and by the Minister, I shall withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u362	Mrs Auconia, do you also withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u363	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u364	The Commission has deleted Article 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u365	We come to the amendments with additional articles after Article 7. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u366	"Water is part of the nation's common heritage": this phrase, which may seem strange to you, appears in article L. 210-1 of the Environmental Code. And the article to continue: "The use of water belongs to all and every natural person, for his food and hygiene, has the right to access drinking water under conditions economically acceptable to all. » The purpose of this amendment is to give effect to the right to water for every natural person, beyond the texts. Water is necessary for life and human dignity, for hydration, of course, but also for food and hygiene. The aim of this amendment is to abolish VAT for domestic use in order to reduce the cost of water, which is still too high for too many people. Water does not have the same vital value as it is used for dignity or industrial use. It is immoral to tax this resource, which is a common good. Taxing primary water needs is as if we start to tax the air we breathe. In the absence of free access to the first cubic metres, the aim of this amendment is to exempt them from VAT. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In Aubervilliers, in my constituency, the inhabitants of the HLM public office find themselves with water bills so high that they have to spread them over several years to be able to pay them. The abolition of VAT on the first cubic metres of water corresponding to individual and domestic consumption is a measure of humanity and social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u367	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u368	You propose to exempt from VAT the domestic use of water for natural persons: I am not in favour of this for two reasons. The first relates to the form: this provision should refer to Article 256b of the General Tax Code, which provides for cases of exemption from VAT for legal persons governed by public law, rather than Article 291 concerning imports. The second reason is fundamental: there is already an exemption from VAT for the supply of water in municipalities of less than 3000 inhabitants or for public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation whose scope is exercised in a territory of less than 3000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u369	What about the others?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u370	In this case, it is accepted that their non-taxability does not distort competition and that it is compatible – this is important – with European texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u371	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u372	The Government's opinion was identical to that of the rapporteur. Adopting such a measure would expose France to a certain risk of condemnation by the bodies of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u373	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u374	I find it regrettable that, in our chamber, it is in the name of respect for free and undistorted competition and the sacrosanct European treaties that we decide to reject the measure of humanity and social justice which is the exemption of VAT on drinking water. I see this as an additional reason to declare that we must disobey the Treaties of the European Union...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u375	To each his methods.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u376	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... and refuse the Brussels diktat which, under the guise of respecting free and undistorted competition, leads to leaving French people without drinking water.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u377	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u378	Since you have refused in committee the total exemption of VAT on the domestic use of water, we defend this withdrawal amendment, which aims to exempt from VAT the first 14.6 cubic metres of immediate drinking water for natural persons. France is a force of proposal: this is the spirit in which we present this amendment. These 14.6 cubic metres correspond to the amount of water required each year for every human being. The World Health Organization – WHO – has set this consumption at 20 litres per day per person. However, there are significant inequalities in access to water. The cost, which is constantly increasing, forces many families to reduce their consumption drastically, while the most affluent households and large businesses can consume without fear. Moreover, this cost is not likely to decrease: the management of the network by private companies tends to push it upwards. This trend will not be reversed, particularly as a result of the treatment of water pollution. The intensive use of pesticides and herbicides, such as glyphosate, pollutes the soil and has a direct impact on the health and portfolio of the French. Lack of water or access to poor quality water is a known scourge that many suffer. Our proposal is therefore fully consistent with respect for human dignity according to WHO standards and represents a strong political issue. It is not a question of proposing social pricing of water as communities experience it, but of ensuring free or cheapest access to people's basic water needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u379	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u380	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion, based on the same argument as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u381	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u382	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u383	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u384	The aim of this amendment is to reduce the VAT rate from 10% to 5.5% for the provision of services which contribute to the proper functioning of the water distribution or drainage systems and to the provision of sanitation services. To this end, the amendment proposes to include these services essential to water for all in the list in Article 278-0 bis of the General Tax Code. This general provision of the General Tax Code applies to the sale or supply of water, regardless of the person who makes it. Furthermore, Article 98 of the 2006 VAT Directive specifies that supplies of goods and services of the categories listed in Annex III thereto may be subject to reduced rates of VAT. It refers in particular to foodstuffs, water supply and certain services. This amendment, for our group, seems to be self-evident or, at least, in the right direction, allowing access to water for more people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u385	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u386	The amendment seeks to apply a reduced rate of VAT on water. The European Directive of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax regulates the possibility for Member States to set reduced rates, ensuring that competition conditions are not distorted, both nationally and at European level. As a result, the only service that can benefit from the reduced rate of 5.5% is the distribution of water. The sanitation service cannot benefit from this minimum rate in accordance with European legislation. Since 1 January 2014, it has therefore been subject to a VAT rate of 10 %. Opinion against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u387	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u388	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u389	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u390	You know how much we are committed to the possibility of progressive policies in our country despite European injunctions. Again a question of sovereignty is raised. Madam Minister, are you basically in agreement or in disagreement with this European provision? Does the Government commit itself to fighting at the European level to obtain the possibility of lowering the VAT rate in order to promote access to water for all in France and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u391	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u392	That is not the subject of the text and I will not enter into a discussion at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u393	You have to answer, Madam Minister, it's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u394	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u395	Considering the arguments put forward by my colleagues and the fact that water becomes an increasingly scarce resource on the planet while it is a vital element for every person, we argue that the first cubic metres of drinking water essential to life are free for all, because water is not a consumer good like any other because of its essential character for life. In the same way that public authorities must guarantee free access to water for its vital use, we believe that the pricing of water uses should be differentiated. We want to distinguish between the consumption needed by households, which is part of the satisfaction of universal needs, of administrative, industrial or commercial use. In an ecological emergency where resources are scarce and valuable, this differentiated tariff introduces degrees of priority and importance in the use of water as a common good. I may be told that this differentiated pricing may lead to a decrease in revenue. I go ahead with this criticism by stating that we are proposing to introduce this measure with constant revenue, with the evolution of prices for industrial and commercial use offsetting a reduction in the tariff applicable to vital use. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is therefore a common sense amendment aimed at introducing differentiated water pricing according to usage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u396	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u397	This amendment proposes to modulate the tariffs for drinking water. Currently, municipalities can already determine water tariffs by user category; However, these tariff differentiations are allowed within the limits laid down in the case law on the principle of equal treatment of users before the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u398	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u399	The difference in the situation must be appreciable or be in the public interest. In addition to the category of households, recognised in Article L. 2224-12-1 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, the categories of professional, industrial and commercial users and public administrations are commonly differentiated by the competent authorities. In any event, the definition of these categories belongs to the competent authority depending on the local situation. It is she who must justify the merits, under the control of the judge. The difference in tariff is then applied without distinction to all users of the same category. Therefore, while I understand the purpose of Amendment No 55, it seems to me that this freedom of assessment should be left to the municipalities. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u400	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u401	The rapporteur's answer is very comprehensive – I had about the same one. The law already allows such differentiations. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u402	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u403	Madam rapporteur, your answer is not entirely appropriate. Indeed, the article in the general code of local authorities to which you refer allows you to differentiate the price of drinking water according to the users. This is not what we propose: we target differences in usage, not differences in users. We therefore ask you to reconsider your opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u404	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u405	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u406	In 2010, the United Nations recognized "the right to clean and quality drinking water and sanitation" as "a human right, indispensable for the full enjoyment of the right to life". This statement is very important. But everyone knows that, in order to live decently, man needs 20 to 50 litres of water a day, which represents an annual consumption of 14.6 cubic metres of water. Amendment No 54 is intended to transpose into French law this UN decision...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u407	You're against Europe, but for the UN!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u408	... by introducing free of charge the first 14.6 cubic metres of water consumed by a natural person during a year, in order to guarantee respect for this human right. This proposal is nothing revolutionary. Indeed, the city of Dax has put in place a solidarity pricing that provides for the free of charge of the first 30 cubic meters of water and a progressive pricing for the following cubic meters. This decision resulted in a two-thirds reduction in user bills. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We call on you to extend the system established by the city of Dax to the entire territory and to ensure the equality of all French people in the face of access to water and, to use the expression used by the United Nations, "the full enjoyment of the right to life".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u409	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u410	This amendment really comes out of the subject of the bill. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u411	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u412	In your remarks, Mr Lachaud, I note that the UN is more successful than Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u413	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u414	In addition, what is possible somewhere else is possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u415	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u416	In the name of the free administration of local authorities, and in particular of the municipalities, which you recommended this afternoon, it is necessary to let the municipalities decide themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u417	So there are the French who are lucky enough to live in a good commune and those who don't have that chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u418	Do I have to understand that you agree on the principle?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u419	I understand your social and humanitarian concerns, which you do not have a monopoly on. I would remind you that the Brottes Act has made it possible to improve access to water for all users, including those who are experiencing financial difficulties. In addition, your amendment is far removed from the purpose of this bill. You present things in a way that suggests that you have some concerns that others do not have.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u420	Yes, that's a bit of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u421	Let me tell you this very simply and very kindly: there are also people who are concerned about social issues outside your political group. (Applause from the MODEM and REM panels)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u422	Unsuspecting France does not have a monopoly on the heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u423	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u424	I cannot help but answer you, minister: we are here to make proposals, and it is up to you to approve them if you share them. We do not question anyone: we are still happy that we in this House can defend our ideas or our vision of things! We have no doubt that you share a number of them – we still need to agree on how they will be implemented. I don't understand the false controversy you're trying to create. In any event, we will continue to defend our amendments and explain to you why we tabled them as part of the review of this bill – they have not been declared inadmissible, so they need to be debated. Amendment No 56 is intended to remove fixed costs on water bills. We propose to introduce free meters at the main home of natural persons and to remove subscriptions and fixed shares for the supply of water and sanitation. In fact, elderly people or families in collective housing generally consume less than 100 cubic metres of water per year: these users are therefore penalized by these fixed shares. Because of the latter, comfort and luxury uses as well as misuses are, on average, cheaper than vital and hygienic uses. This amendment therefore leads to a gradual rate of invoicing according to consumption, which will have to be implemented by the managers. It does not reduce revenue. However, in order to avoid any risk of inadmissibility, a pledge has been made, although it is probably simply formal. It is not necessary to guarantee with fixed shares the financing of recurrent expenses – this practice does not take place in any local community. The rate of collection of water bills is higher than that of local taxes. In line with our will, which you surely share, to guarantee to all French people decent living conditions and to allow them access to water of sufficient quality to meet their vital needs, we submit this amendment for your approval. Its adoption would send a good signal to our most fragile citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u425	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u426	Same argument as before. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u427	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u428	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u429	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u430	Ladies and gentlemen of the La France group, the minister and the rapporteur have said very fair things: a large majority of the French communes already offer all the systems you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u431	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u432	Many municipalities offer social water prices for people in difficulty. For having worked a little on issues of decentralized cooperation, I can tell you that by using a United Nations statement, you are comparing things that are not comparable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u433	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u434	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Same movements]] In many French households, water comes to the tap, at a generally low cost. You were talking earlier about the 14 cubic meters of water a year that a person needs to live in – we all know that figure. The price of water varies according to the communes and the situations, but I think that an cubic metre of water costs on average between 2 and 4 euros – I do not have the exact figure in mind. Thus, a consumption of 14 cubic meters of water at 2 euros per unit costs 28 euros per year: it's not much! In France too, water is precious, and I do not consider it scandalous to make users aware of the environmental and social costs of this resource. It is therefore not appropriate to put the situation in France and in countries where access to water is difficult on the same level.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u435	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u436	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 26, 68, 69, 70 and 71, which can be presented together. Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u437	The aim of this amendment is to enable a blocking minority within an EPCI to maintain water and sanitation skills at the municipal level. This is a somewhat less ambitious, degraded version, other amendments that we will consider later, which are part of the spirit of the proposal for a law on GEMAPI and which consist of better adapting to local circumstances in the field of water management – one can even speak of the large water cycle, since it is both the distribution of water and sanitation. This amendment incorporates a proposal made by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic before the Congress of the Association of Mayors of France. However, the measure should be operational before 1 January 2018. I have heard that you intend to propose this mechanism at the beginning of 2018, but the debate will then be biased as many communities of municipalities will have changed their statutes at the end of the year in order to benefit from an overall operating allocation – DGF – enhanced. This is why there is an urgent need to address this issue: we must do so, in any case, before January 1, 2018. Of course, your measure is less ambitious than the one we proposed under the proposed law for the maintenance of water and sanitation skills in the optional competences of communities of communes and agglomeration communities, which we discussed on 12 October last. Amendment No 26 deals with the proposal put forward by the executive to provide for a blocking minority within the EPCI.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u438	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendments Nos 68, 69, 70 and 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u439	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read out a debate on the municipal council of a municipality in my constituency. In fact, I believe that a large number of parliamentarians have received comparable deliberations, coming from elected representatives of all sensitivities. "By making the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of municipalities mandatory from 1 January 2020, the NOTRe Act introduces worrying uniformity for the future management of water and sanitation. On October 12, the MPs rejected a bill that was intended to maintain its optional character. This vote is all the more incomprehensible because this text, supported by almost all local elected representatives and their associations, was adopted unanimously by the Senate last February. "Until today, everyone has judiciously composed with local reality. As a result, existing networks are more supportive of watershed logics than of administrative cuttings. In addition, community management, detached from cost-effectiveness criteria, has enabled effective maintenance of these networks. This reality is a trademark in the territory of our community of communes and the local elected representatives are legitimately attached to it. "Under these conditions, the compulsory transfer of this competence is experienced as a form of contempt for the work carried out over decades by several generations of local elected officials who have been able to build a successful local public service. "This transfer also calls on the EPCIs in view of the financial and material costs it will entail. As for the staff currently dedicated to this competence, within trade unions and municipalities, there is a legitimate concern. "It is up to the municipalities to choose sovereignly. "With the experience of many years, the City Council: "- requires that the compulsory nature of the transfer of competence " water and sanitation " be abandoned to the benefit of optionality; "- Asks the Government, deputies and senators for a new bill to be debated in order to allow the free organization for the management of the competence "water and sanitation". » That is the meaning of my amendment No 68. I would like, Madam Minister, to be able to take advantage of these various amendments to clarify: how far can we go, in terms of delegation or conventions, in the current state of the NOTRe Act? The following amendments are back-up amendments to the first, which propose that competence should remain optional and that, if they so wish, the municipalities should be able to retain it. These amendments reduce the demand for optionality to water competence alone, and then introduce other possibilities, such as the use of a convention or delegation adopted by deliberation of the community of communes, or even the possibility that this competence, if not assumed by a municipality, will continue to be, for example, by a water union, because some of these unions are now very effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u440	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u441	As you said, Mr Schellenberger, in proposing the introduction of a blocking minority for the transfer of water and sanitation skills to inter-municipality, you refer to the announcements made by the Prime Minister at the Congress of Mayors. I therefore note that you agree with this proposal. However, in the framework that brings us together today, I am not in favour of it. This is in line with the amendments tabled by Mr Chassaigne, in view of the fact that this bill deals with the competence of GEMAPI and that the timetables differ, with the transfer of water and sanitation competence due to take place on 1 January 2020. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u442	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u443	These amendments prove that, whatever their origin, ideas can be found and finally, they can be good. Let us make the point very precisely, without contempt of any kind for the elected ones, but, on the contrary, with respect. You know that, following the referral of the bill to committee, we set up, within the framework of the National Conference of Territories, a commission composed of eight deputies and eight senators of all political sensitivities. We have done important work, listening to all elected associations, basin agencies and professional representatives – all those concerned with water and sanitation competence. We have thus reached a progress report, which the Prime Minister reported to the Congress of Mayors, referring to the possibility of adopting a position comparable to the provision of the Act on Access to Housing and a renovated urban planning, known as the ALUR Act, which makes it possible not to transfer jurisdiction in the event of opposition of 25 per cent of the municipalities representing at least 20 per cent of the population. This position has received unanimous agreement from all the members present on this committee. This progress report needs further refinement. We have time to do so, as the mandatory transfer of jurisdiction will only take place in 2020. In addition, we have already voted – I personally took care of it and I myself proposed it – to reduce the number of compulsory competences from nine to eight so that communities of communes can reach the enhanced DGF, a reduction which was all the more necessary since one of these competences is the city's policy. So it's done today. However, I hear Mr Chassaigne's arguments, who wonders why the existing unions would be changed if they functioned effectively? That is the very question that we asked ourselves earlier about the GEMAPI competence. Currently, the law provides that, in order for these effective trade unions to be maintained, they must cover three intercommunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u444	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u445	I am also making a commitment – which therefore requires further refinement of the bill – to reduce to two the number of necessary and sufficient intercommunalities, so that a union that is on top of only two intercommunalities can continue after the transfer of jurisdiction. This mechanism is all the more legitimate since, in general, intercommunities have grown. It is therefore not clear why it would take three: it is sufficient for there to be two large intercommunalities and one union. Other points still need to be refined. The Government's opinion is therefore, I repeat, unfavourable to all these amendments. In the first place, we must respect the working group that is currently dealing with these issues. Secondly, the text that I intend to propose to all the members of the group should allow all the groups to come together on the proposal. It will certainly have to be carried by a particular group, but I myself, when I was a parliamentarian, often signed bills from other groups, because I thought they were smart.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u446	Of which the bill on sanitation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u447	Yes, it is. I was waiting for you to call him back. On the other hand, you have to take the time to do things once and for all. As I said earlier, I attended this morning in Matignon the reception of all the associations of elected representatives, who put the question on the carpet: we see that this proposal will gather a real consensus against those which aim to not touch anything from the NOTRE law and to allow transfers to take place or which come, on the contrary, from those who do not want to hear about the transition to intercommunality and wish to call into question its mandatory character. We have therefore found a majority position and, even if it is foreseeable that it will not satisfy everyone, we will at least have listened to everyone. This seems wise to me, because we are not going to put this issue of water and sanitation to the face for months to come. This is all the more true given that the bill that you keep talking about contained elements that were not acceptable and that I, for my part, did not vote in the Senate – I want to make it clear. We must therefore wait a month or two to allow us to refine the issue and to address all the problems. Some had to be settled in the finance law and others had to be settled in a bill. Like Mrs Auconie, I attach great importance to water agencies, but we need to review their functioning and the support they need for local authorities, not only financially, but also technically. There's a whole problem to look at. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendments. You will have understood that we intend to complete the process, with respect for the working group and for all elected representatives who call for a relaxation of the transfer of water and sanitation competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u448	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u449	Thank you, minister, for this long and precise explanation, which, however, does not calm my anger and which, on the contrary, accentuates it. What you are asking us, in the end, is to give priority to the work of a working group, however respectable it may be, over that of our assembly. I would like to recall that on 12 October you asked your majority to refer back to the committee a text on which we could have worked for a long time. All this work of audit, expertise, exchanges and amendments that you seem to be carrying out with a working group – which certainly brings together all the political sensitivities – we could and should have done in this assembly, around the bill, because it was the support for it and because that is how we make the law. The national representation of the parliamentary debate in open session is not denied with an initiative introduced on the grounds that a bill does not fully coincide with the Government's timetable. Parliamentarians considered this to be important enough to be on the agenda of the National Assembly. You have flouted this will, and you are now trying to explain to us that the time constraints are not exactly what they are, since you have removed one of the mandatory competences to allow communities of communes and communities of agglomerations to continue to benefit from the overall operating allocation enhanced after 1 January. However, irreversible changes and decisions will occur, as the decision will not have been taken until January 1, 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u450	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u451	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer. You have explained the progress of the measures which should make it possible to change the current legislation resulting from the NOTRe Act. You have also provided answers to some of the amendments contained in the package I have tabled. By correcting the work in progress, I withdraw my amendments, because I am not here to do sleeve effects. Of course, we will have to get back to work on the bill that will be introduced: it will give us the opportunity to rework its content in committee and to express ourselves. What is essential is that decisions can be made before the deadline of 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u452	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u453	It is in fact on that date, unlike what is provided for in GEMAPI, that the transfer of competence must take place. You really have to take the uphills into account. I take note of what you have said, and I withdraw the amendments that I have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u454	Is Amendment No 72 also withdrawn, Mr Chassaigne?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u455	He is.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u456	Like Amendment No 73?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u457	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u458	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u459	This is an amendment of consistency. Reference was made to "internal secability" with regard to GEMAPI, and the question arises in comparable terms for competence in sanitation. Indeed, the problems encountered are the same, namely that, on technical matters such as this one, it is sometimes preferable that it is the commune that intervenes, and sometimes the community of communes. Since sanitation competence is very broad, it should be possible to divide it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u460	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u461	This amendment has already been rejected in committee. I am sorry to repeat myself, but I am not in favour, for the reasons already set out: the purpose of the bill is not water and sanitation. The bill discussed in committee last October was rejected and the working group will make proposals. The opinion is therefore again unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u462	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u463	Unfavorable opinion. In response to Mr Schellenberger, there is a sequestration: you can now transfer water and not sanitation, and vice versa. I have seen that your amendment concerns stormwater, but we have already explained other amendments a little earlier and we will come back to all of this. The answer is the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u464	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u465	The minister responded in advance, committing herself to an evolution on the maintenance of competences in inter-municipal unions. Up to now, the competence of an inter-municipal trade union can be maintained under the NOTRE law, if the inter-municipal trade union serves municipalities in three communities of different communes. The minister has just made the commitment that this number will be reduced to two: since it is not a question of putting an amendment to the vote that will be included later in a bill, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u466	I have before me an amendment No 75 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 85. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u467	The purpose of this amendment is to extend, beyond 1 January 2018, the work undertaken by the basin technical support missions, created by the Act of 27 January 2014 to modernise territorial public action and affirm metropolitan areas. These missions have the advantage of bringing together all actors at the basin level. Unfortunately, in most regions and local and regional authorities, these missions have not been able to carry out the planned support to the communities of communes within the framework of this acquisition of competence. As this is an important and highly specialized competence, many elected officials have expressed concern about the lack of resources to ensure it properly. The need for engineering is high. Therefore, the elected representatives still wish to be able to benefit from assistance in legal engineering – governance, methods of intervention and coordination – technical and financial – including support for the search for funding and the implementation of the famous GEMAPI tax. In the spirit of this amendment, the mission can also be led by a public actor other than the State. It is therefore necessary to extend this mission beyond 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u468	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion on the amendment and to support sub-amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u469	I return to what has been presented, namely the extension of the work undertaken by the technical support missions in the basin. These missions are established in each watershed by the Prefect Basin Coordinator; they are responsible for making recommendations on the tools useful for the exercise of the new jurisdiction, preparing site records of stream line lines, as well as a technical, administrative and economic overview of the works and facilities. The Decree implementing Article 59 of the MAPTAM Law sets their term on 1 January 2018. You want to extend beyond that. This sub-amendment proposes to set a new term on 1 January 2020, because, contrary to what is stated, the purpose of these missions is not to provide technical or legal assistance. This need for engineering could be met by the intervention of the department beyond the transitional period, as provided for in section 1 of the proposed law. The committee's opinion is therefore in favour of the amendment, subject to the adoption of the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u470	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u471	You propose to give basin technical support missions the opportunity to continue their action beyond 1 January 2018: the Government is in favour of it. This is not the direct responsibility of the department I represent, but the Department of Ecological Transition has confirmed to me its agreement. We give a wise opinion to the rapporteur's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u472	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 19, 52, 67 and 76. I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u473	The amendment has already been defended in the discussion. The aim is again to make water and sanitation skills optional for communities of municipalities and agglomeration communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u474	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u475	The purpose of this amendment is not to oblige municipalities to delegate water management competence to their intercommunality. I would like to take advantage of the defence of this amendment to reply to Erwan Balanant, who said earlier that running water is coming through the taps in all homes. We may not have a monopoly on the social issue, but when NGOs warn about the 2 million people who do not have sufficient access to water in our country, when a recent report by the People's Relief Alert on the increase of poverty, recalling that 18 per cent of people have difficulty in settling their energy or water bills, it must be considered that certain provisions should be included in the law. Regarding the price of water, you said that the cubic metre cost 3 or 4 euros. However, according to the municipalities, this can be quite different: the price can go up to 10 euros. It is therefore important to differentiate usages and not neglect this extremely important issue of daily life and survival for many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u476	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u477	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u478	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u479	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u480	I heard the minister testifying that there is an urgent need. Whatever the bottle is, as long as it is drunk: the purpose of this amendment is to remove the mandatory nature of water transfer and sanitation, but we will await the conclusions of the working group with vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u481	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u482	The purpose of this amendment is to enable people who do not have running water at home and those of our fellow citizens who do not have housing to re-approve water as a common good. In this way, we would like to strengthen the right of access to drinking water for hydration and water for hygiene purposes, by making all public drinking water points, sanitary facilities and public shower baths free of charge. It is therefore necessary to include in French law access to public drinking water points and hygiene facilities for free use. To answer the question of the funding of this measure, I would like to point out that, under the constitutional principle of free administration, communities can offset this expenditure with another local revenue. Local elected officials are committed to this principle, which the Government is about to trample on with the abolition of the housing tax. We propose that this measure should enter into force as soon as possible, given the urgent need to enshrine the right to access to water for all human beings.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u483	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u484	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u485	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u486	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u487	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u488	I want to answer...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u489	...on the amendment, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u490	Yes, I will try to answer on the amendment! I will speak on two points, concerning your proposal for free water and the questioning of my remarks. You compared water and energy: on energy, I fully agree with you, many homes in France are in energy poverty. Some people may also have difficulty accessing water: I do not know, because I worked for six months last year with women in very precarious conditions, who did not have a tap at all. But since there is a water subscription in the houses,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u491	But that's exactly what's expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u492	Most municipalities set up social charges. Since this possibility exists, they must all seize this right. But we are not going to adopt a provision that would run counter to the communes, when we are told that they must be given freedom. I have rechecked the figures: water costs €2.30 on average and sanitation €1.89, which means, on average, a cost of less than €4. The real problem in France is therefore not access to water; But, I grant you, energy is a real thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u493	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u494	What is expensive, in terms of access to water, is the cost of installation, of subscription. You're saying that insecurity is only energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u495	No, I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u496	Let me remind you of the figure I have already quoted: 2 million people do not have sufficient access to water. You said yourself that you were aware of it since you saw people living without taps suffering. We must not sweep this idea away with a back of our hands: the right to water is a basic right, and every human being must benefit from it, in order to live with dignity. That is why it is important to include it in the law, in order to ensure equality on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u497	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u498	The Republicans Group will adopt this text, which amounts to a concept that is dear to us in terms of territorial organisation and a more subsidiary vision of decentralization. I heard the semantics games, Madam Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u499	It's not semantic, it's legal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u500	...but it is always that we leave the partitioning of the blocks of competence in which the NOTRE and MAPTAM laws would lock us up, lock our territories and stifle our ability to react. I am elected from a community, the Haut-Rhin, which has been managing rivers, rivers and flood prevention for more than 200 years. In territories such as these, the GEMAPI was not expected to take an interest in the issue; We didn't wait for someone in Paris to tell us how to do it. This bill allows you to put a little oil back in the workings...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u501	Water!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u502	...and we will support her. Only one of the amendments tabled by the Members of our group was adopted in a public sitting, but it was important because it reaffirmed the role of the mountain in securing the different watersheds and basin heads. There are still outstanding questions about funding – you did not agree to address it during this debate, while funding raises real questions of territorial solidarity – about the responsibility for works that play an essential role on the margins of containment systems, and above all on water and sanitation skills, which you always refuse to deal with. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We have heard your announcements: we are now waiting for them to turn into deeds, because there is an urgent need for our territories, sclerotic by technocratic decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u503	The next speaker is Mr Marc Fesneau, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u504	We are pleased to have been able to debate a text that deals with local authorities in a calm climate, which proves that it is possible! On the GEMAPI Act, the time had come for explanations and clarifications, and I would like to thank you, Madam Minister, for bringing them in a number of areas, because that is what has been lacking since the passage of this Act. I still have to ask you to explain to the Prefects the meaning of what we are going to vote earlier, I hope, so that the GEMAPI competence can be implemented under the best possible conditions. This will be useful to the elected representatives who will be responsible for this very important competence, since it is at the heart of subjects which unfortunately risk increasingly affecting the inhabitants of our territories. The joint work we have done must also shed light on how we should design the law. What has been said today is the willingness to take into account the diversity of the territories and their approaches to the problems, their ability to cooperate, in short, to apply the principle of subsidiarity while maintaining objectives of general interest. This was recalled by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic during the Congress of Mayors. It is the role of the legislator, as far as local authorities are concerned, to reconcile the general interest and the adaptation to the territories. Freedom, confidence in the ability of the field to find suitable solutions, a general interest: that is what guided us in the drafting of this bill. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to extend my group's thanks to all of you for participating in these discussions in a very constructive way; to you, the minister, for having informed us, and to you, the rapporteur and Mrs Kamowski, for your work. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] We have, I believe, served the general interest and that of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u505	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u506	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I have already said this morning that the vote of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, and in particular that of the Communist Members, would be in favour. We will therefore vote on this text, despite all the shortcomings we have pointed out. I would like to thank you, Minister – I don't often have the opportunity to do so! – for the explanations you have given us on the indispensable developments called for by the disastrous consequences of the NOTRE law, for our territories in particular. I think you have been sufficiently clear on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Of course, much remains to be done. What else could I wish for you, if not for René Char's words to prove correct: "The unfulfilled is full of essentials. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u507	That's a real Republican!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u508	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u509	We will, of course, vote on this text, as we also announced this morning, not only because we have co-signed this bill, but above all because it allows us to reaffirm the principle, established by the MAPTAM Act, of the exclusive competence of EPCI within the framework of the GEMAPI, plus, thanks to the principle of subsidiarity, flexibility and efficiency in the application of the law. This renewed confidence will allow local elected officials to deploy once again the intelligence of the territories, of which Mrs Gourault, in a 2008 report, I believe, said how dear she was. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] On behalf of the 18 million people who will be able to count on local authorities to ensure their protection, I would like to thank all of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u510	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u511	[[Mrs. and Mr. MEPs from the REM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud strongly]] I note that the proposal for a law on the exercise of the powers of local and regional authorities in the field of aquatic management and flood prevention has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u512	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u513	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u514	The next item is the proposal for a law on the residence of the child in the event of the separation of parents (No.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u515	Mr Vincent Bru, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u516	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, as an introductory statement, I would like to recall the spirit in which I wished to carry out my work as rapporteur: without any a priori or bias. The bill we are considering this evening raises passions and even pressures for a social problem that raises the essential question of the relationship between the child and his or her parents. Some feel that we are not going far enough; on the contrary, that we are dealing with something essential that should not be changed. In any event, I hope that the discussion will ease the concerns that may have arisen in the public debate on some of the proposed provisions and that everyone is well aware that the only objective is the interests of the child. First of all, I would like to point out that the bill we are considering is largely part of a movement, launched more than forty years ago, to promote the equality of each parent in the exercise of parental authority. The equality between the married father and mother had been affirmed by the 1970 Act, which replaced "paternal power" with "parental authority". Then the equality between separated parents, whether married or unmarried, was affirmed by the Acts of 1987 and 1993, which separated the residence of the child from the exercise of parental authority and extended the joint exercise of that authority. The principle of co-parentality, according to which it is in the child's interest to be raised by both parents, was finally affirmed by the Act of 4 March 2002, which, inter alia, offered the choice between alternating residence and residence at the home of one of the parents. The proposed law extends this development by laying down, in article 373-2-9 of the Civil Code, the principle of the child's dual residence, without necessarily implying an equal sharing of the time spent by both parents. It thus enshrines the child's right to maintain the relationship with both parents. I would then like to point out that this bill is being discussed at a time when our society is undergoing profound changes. Parental separations thus affect more and more families: one in three couples separate with, in half of the cases, one dependent child. On the other hand, the evolution of family lifestyles reflects the growing willingness of each parent to become more involved in the relationship with his or her child. Thus, by laying down the principle of the child's dual residence in the event of parental separation, without requiring an equal distribution of time between the two homes, the proposed reform pursues a threefold objective. The first objective is to preserve the interests of the child by enshrining the child's right to maintain the relationship with both parents. Maintaining ties with each parent is indeed essential to the child. Many child psychiatrists, psychologists and teachers of education science have stressed, during our hearings, the necessary presence of both parents on a daily basis, in order to preserve the balance of the child. The child must feel at home as well with his father as with his mother. By establishing the principle of dual residence, the proposed law thus makes it possible to fully implement the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted in 1989 and ratified by France in 1990, which recognizes the right of children to be reared by their parents in order to promote their development. Second objective: to better translate the symbolism of the equality of parents. The proposed reform is in keeping with the 2002 Act, which, I would remind you, lays down the principle of co-parentality, according to which one parent should not consider himself superior to the other, or exclude the other. The dual residence allows parents to become aware that they have the same responsibility and duties towards their child; It confirms the equality of each parent with regard to their rights and duties. The sharing of the child's accommodation is likely to promote a more equal care of the child and a real maintenance of his or her ties with both parents. According to article 373(2) of the Civil Code, "Each parent must maintain personal relations with the child and respect the child's relationship with the other parent. » Third objective: to change the perception of the social role of each parent. Despite a steady, albeit slow, increase in the assumptions of alternating residence – 17% of court decisions – and residence in the father – 12% of court decisions – the daily burden of children still weighs heavily on women. Some choices, such as giving up the demand of majority custody, are still difficult for the mother to take on or get accepted by society. Thus, by laying down the principle of dual residence, the purpose of the bill is to change the perception of the social role of each parent. Before turning more specifically to the proposed scheme, I would like to point out that the current binary choice between alternating residence and residence in the home of one of the parents is to be eliminated, in favour of the principle that the child's residence is fixed at the home of each parent, without however imposing an equal distribution of the time of presence in each parent. Several improvements have been made to the original text by the Committee on Laws, in particular on the initiative of Caroline Abadie – whom I thank for her very great involvement in the hearings and the work of the committee – but also on my proposal. On the one hand, they are intended to give the judge greater freedom in his decision and, thus, to allow an assessment on a case-by-case basis in the interests of the child; and, on the other hand, to present the necessary guarantees in the event of violence by one of the parents against the person of the child or the other parent – in particular, violence against the mother. The Law Commission first amended the wording of article 373-2-9 of the Civil Code, stipulating that the residence of the child shall be fixed at the home of each parent in a manner of "frequency and duration" determined by agreement between the parents or by the judge. It is a question of laying down the principle of double residence, which does not necessarily imply, I repeat, an equal sharing. The Commission has also defined exceptions to this principle. Exceptionally, the judge may fix the child's residence at the home of one of the parents. In this case, it shall decide on the modalities of the other parent's right of access. Where the interest of the child so orders, such right of access may, by a decision specially reasoned by the judge, be exercised in a meeting place designated by the judge. The Commission has also introduced provisions to combat the violent behaviour of one of the parents. To this end, it has maintained the provisions of the current paragraph 4 of article 373-2-9 of the Civil Code, which are intended to regulate the handing over of the child, commonly referred to as "arm-crossing", when one of the parents presents a danger to the child or, above all, to the other parent – this is obviously the case of violence against the mother. The Commission has also made it useful to specify, in article 373-2-1 of the Civil Code, on the unilateral exercise of parental authority, that, when the judge entrusts the exercise of parental authority to one of the parents, he shall fix the residence of the child at the home of that parent. In order to allow parents to adopt the new terminology resulting from the proposed law in their conventions and to allow judges to take into account, in their decisions, the new wording of article 373-2-9 of the Civil Code, the commission also provided for a deferred entry into force date of the law, which could be set for January 1, 2019. Drawing conclusions from its work, the Law Commission has finally clarified the title of the bill, since the term "alternate custody" has been removed from the Civil Code since the Act of 22 July 1987 on the exercise of parental authority. She therefore chose to refer to her as a proposal for a law "on the residence of the child in the event of the separation of the parents". [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] In conclusion, of course, I invite you to adopt this bill, which, far from disrupting the current law, makes an interesting contribution to the principle of co-parentality in the interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u517	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u518	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to ask you to excuse Mrs Belloubet, the keeper of the seals, who cannot be present today at the bench of the Government because she is travelling to New Caledonia with the Prime Minister in view of the important deadlines of 2018. In a 2014 opinion, the Defender of Rights stated, on the important issue of children's residence, that "a balance had to be struck between the non-automaticity of the alternate residence, in the child's interest, and the effective exercise of joint parental authority. From this point of view, the assertion of dual residence by principle, which in no way means the principle of joint alternate residence, can be seen as a positive development, allowing each parent to be considered as a parent in its own right. » The text before you intends to propose this development, which can be described as "positive". It was an initiative of the MODEM Group, and in particular of Mr Philippe Latomb, who wanted to bring this issue before national representation. Substantive work has been carried out by the Law Commission, as has just been described. The rapporteur Vincent Bru spared neither his time nor his efforts, supported in particular by Caroline Abadie, who introduced and passed amendments that made it possible to clarify the drafting of this bill. I would like to thank them for this. The Government has taken an attentive and open look at this approach, ensuring that certain principles are respected and that any ambiguities are removed. In fact, in these sensitive matters, which concern millions of French people, where the interests of children are at stake, there is a need for clarity and legal precision. The original title may have suggested that it was a matter of establishing alternate custody in principle. The work of the Law Commission has shown that this title does not correspond to the content of this text or to the intention of its authors. In any event, the Government has been very clear with all its interlocutors on this point: it cannot be a question of generalizing alternate custody, making it compulsory or even of establishing it as a positive model. Indeed, this is neither desirable nor realistic. This is not desirable, because the interests of the child, who must be our obsession with these matters, can very often lead to the removal of the alternative care solution, especially when children are very young. This is not realistic either, because in most cases the parents themselves do not want it. The purpose of the bill is therefore not to introduce alternate custody as a principle. It simply intends to provide that a child whose parents are separated will now have two residences. This does not mean that he will share his time equally between the homes of his two parents. Once again, this text does not enshrine the alternating residence perfectly equal, but the dual residence of the child whose parents are separated. I repeat, alternative residence cannot be a model. In some cases, it is adapted; in others, it is not, especially when geographical remoteness is very important or when there is a context of violence within the family. However, it is primarily a matter of respecting the interests of the child. This is the absolute priority strongly reaffirmed by the Government. The text of the Law Commission does not, therefore, rightly impose any model, since each family situation is different. It leaves the choice to parents, who can define for themselves the organization most suitable for their child. In case of agreement, if they want this agreement to have the same force as a court decision, they will submit to the review of the judge to whom they will apply to homologate their agreement. And this judicial review, again, will ensure that the interests of the child are safeguarded, as already provided for in article 373-2-8 of the Civil Code. Thus, the court shall approve the agreement unless it finds that it does not sufficiently safeguard the interests of the child or that the consent of the parents has not been given freely. Similarly, this law does not affect the current office of the judge in the event of disagreement between the parents. In order to determine the practical arrangements for the child's time of presence with each parent, the judge will determine the frequency and duration of the time spent in each parent, taking into account the child's interests, taking into account, as at present, the information available to him/her on the ability of each parent to provide material and educational care for the child and to respect the rights of the other parent. The interest of the text is essentially symbolic, but in this respect the symbols are not negligible. He holds in a formula: The child has two parents before the separation; He has two parents after this separation. The text before you today is therefore a text of balance and equality, which simply recalls this principle. It is proposed that any reference to a child's "main residence" be deleted from one parent's home with "access and accommodation" in the other parent's home. These terms are strongly criticized. It is important to prevent a parent, at the turn of the organization of the child's life determined by the judge, from being perceived as a winner or loser. The child will therefore have a double residence, fixed at the home of each of his or her parents, in order to reflect equality between them. The alternation of residence times, and not the sharing of shares, will be the principle. A parent with less time with his or her child will not see his or her relationship to his or her child reduced to "accommodation" or "visit," as is the case today. Specifically, the child will, for example, have two addresses on his or her identity documents. This principle of dual residence will be ruled out in the event of exceptional circumstances, such as violence, psychiatric problems or any other factor that prevents the child from being entrusted more than a few hours a day to one of his or her parents. Violence is a particular focus of attention to which the Government is particularly sensitive. There could be no question of returning to legal achievements, which protected women who had suffered violence from their spouses and who, after separation, could still be subjected to unacceptable pressure. In such a case, as an exception to the principle affirmed in the first paragraph, the judge shall fix the residence of the child at the home of one of his or her parents. In this case alone, he will fix the "right of access", thus without accommodation, of the other parent. This right of access may be exercised at the home of the parent who benefits from it, if the situation permits, or, if necessary, especially if there is a risk to the safety of the child, in a meeting space. In this regard, the Government paid particular attention to the fact that the provisions on what is commonly referred to as "arm passage" were not deleted by this bill. These protective accompanying measures, already provided for in the Civil Code, ensure security for all. The Government has also paid attention to the fact that there is no distinction between married and unmarried couples. Article 1 of the proposed law amends an article of the Civil Code, which deals in an undifferentiated manner with the intervention of the judge in family matters in matters of parental authority, irrespective of the marital status of the parents. Thus, as today, the interests of the child will therefore remain the sole criterion for determining the modalities of parental responsibility. There are still points to be worked out. The Government will propose coordination in the Social Security Code with regard to the appointment of the beneficiary for the allocation of family allowances, in order to neutralize the effects of the introduction of this dual residence. Work still needs to be done with the Directorate-General for Public Finance to do the same with regard to taxation, with regard to the determination of the family quotient applicable to the tax home. A first approach is proposed by amendments, but it is necessary, from this point of view, to dig a little further to avoid any "on-board effect" and, again, to propose any coordination to secure and neutralise the device. The Government would ensure that, but that required further refinement of the necessary legal coordination mechanisms. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] The debate will therefore continue, but I am already of the view that this bill accompanies developments in society, without disrupting the general economy of family law. I know this consideration shared by the Minister of Justice, who could not be present today, but whose action is guided by the constant concern for legislation allowing parents to fully understand the scope of their rights and duties, a fortiori in the event of a separation of the couple, in which case the interests of the child must be particularly preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u519	Ms Marie-Pierre Rixain, Chairperson of the National Assembly delegation on women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u520	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are all here today to discuss a bill which lays down the principle of the double residence of the child, in the event of the separation of the parents, without necessarily implying an equal sharing of the time spent in each of them. I am telling you clearly, I do not wish, here and now, to open a polemic that would only have a counterproductive effect on all of us. However, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I had to speak on this text, because, in my capacity as chairman of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities in this House, the considerations to which it obliges me never leave me, even if the delegation has not received the text. Of all the links of the law, family ties are probably the most important, regardless of their composition and configuration. The best interests of the child must be the objective of the rule of law. And it is this common goal that must animate us. But, beyond the interests of the child, this text also raises issues of equality between women and men. As Françoise Héritier wrote: "There are two bastions to conquer: that of the spirits and that of the domestic sphere. The future great battle that must be waged must focus not only on the real sharing of domestic and parental tasks, but also on the education and culture transmitted to our children, which justify the inequality in these areas. » Even today, the sharing of domestic and parental tasks remains unequal in France. Women account for 71 per cent and 65 per cent, respectively. As a result, the increase in separations, combined with career inequalities and the lowest wages of women, leads to the precariousness of single mothers and single-parent families. Thus, in this context, fostering the involvement of fathers in the daily education of children is a first step towards equal parenting and thus, ultimately, equality between women and men. On the basis of what principles of maternal instinct or naturalism should we ask that the child would need one of his or her parents more? At the same time, being a father can no longer be "where I want and if I want". Fathers must commit themselves to the care given to children from birth and share, whether separated or not, all the burden of parenting. This is the reflection proposed by this text, and I note that the debate exists and how much it is necessary. An egalitarian society must promote the release of women from the carcan of the home in which they were once strictly confined. Promoting the equal involvement of women and men in the education of children means advancing society as a whole. Thus, it would be good not to restrict this debate to too simplistic a reading of this text – the rights of fathers versus mothers – but, conversely, to consider very broadly the transversal issues that attach to it. This bill, as amended in the Committee on Laws, allows the principle of the child's dual residence to be established by leaving the current binary choice between alternate residence and residence at the home of one of the parents, while stressing that it does not necessarily imply an equal sharing of the child's time with each of his or her parents. The aim is to bring about a change in practices and attitudes in the upbringing of children, so that fathers, who are still under-invested, can take full responsibility for the education of children. Nevertheless, it is absolutely necessary to exclude situations of pressure or domestic violence from this system. As Ernestine Ronai and Édouard Durand recall, "violence in the couple comes up against the fundamentals of co-parentality." It is estimated every year that 223,000 women are victims of domestic violence and that 143,000 children live in a home where a woman has declared that she is a victim of violence by her spouse or former spouse; 42% of these children are under the age of six. However, this bill does not explicitly mention the physical or psychological pressure or abuse that one parent exerts on the other or on the child as one of the elements that the judge must take into account in order to derogate from the residence of children at the home of both parents, which is exercised in a spirit of co-parentality. Let us remember: a violent husband cannot be a good father, the continuum of domestic and intramarital violence has been demonstrated at length. Children are witnesses to domestic violence, when they are not the direct victims. Protection against violence against one of the parents and the child should be explicitly included in this text. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I would like to mention one last point on which I will be particularly attentive: the economic impact of this provision on single-parent families. Until now, in the case of alternating residence, with or without equal sharing of time, entitlement to social benefits is shared between the two parents in proportion to the child's time spent in each of them. We must not reduce the share of social assistance which should go back to the most deprived parent, who is still, far too often, the mother.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u521	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1078.u522	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the proposed law on the residence of the child in the event of parental separation. The meeting is adjourned.
