ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u2	We discuss the review of the mission "Economy" and the appropriations relating to the special accounts "International Monetary Agreements" and "Loans and advances to private individuals or bodies" (No. 273, Annexes 20, 21 and 22; No 264, Volumes VIII, IX, X and XI; No 275, Volume VI). The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u3	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, I am pleased to meet with you after this very short night to review the appropriations for the mission "Economy" and the special accounts "International Monetary Agreements" and "Loans and advances to private individuals or organizations". First, I would like to put this mission in perspective to emphasize the Government's economic choices. Our fundamental choice is to transform the French economy in depth to enable our companies to grow and conquer external markets, through a policy that is resolutely a policy of supply: we want to improve the offer of French products, the offer of French production. This obviously involves all the tax guidelines that we have voted for: the single flat-rate levy, the reduction of corporate tax, the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth. It also involves the sustainability of the competitiveness and employment tax credit, which we will discuss later in the day. Finally, it requires decisively conquering choices in the field of innovation. The maintenance of the research tax credit and the establishment of the EUR 10 billion break-up innovation fund serve these proactive objectives in terms of innovation and therefore investment. This proactive policy will continue through the Business Transformation Bill, on which many of you are already working, and I would like to thank them for that. I come to the reminder of the large budgetary masses of the "Economy" mission. With just under EUR 1.9 billion in payment appropriations and EUR 2.1 billion in commitment authorisations, the means of this mission are stable compared to the initial finance law for 2017. The payroll represents just under 50% of this mission's appropriations, for 12017 agents. These are mainly the staff of the Directorate-General for Enterprise, the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – both in central government and in the regions, through the DIRECCTE – the INSEE, the Directorate-General for the Treasury and the Directorate for Tax Legislation. 182 job losses are planned, representing an effort rate of 1.5 per cent and attests to the mission's contribution to the control of the State civil service. I had the opportunity to meet with the trade union representatives at the beginning of the week to tell them about this figure and explain the motivation for it. Through these directorates and the non-staff credits available to them, the "Economy" mission offers small and medium-sized enterprises and craft enterprises various support and support mechanisms. In particular, the mission finances Bpifrance's efforts to finance SMEs through the guarantee of bank loans, the financing of which was consolidated this year, and in the field of export insurance, an area whose role is increasingly important in an unstable world and in the face of multiple crises. It also finances the Business France agency, which helps SMEs open up new export markets. Within the mission "Economy" is programme 343 "Plan 'France Très haute débit'", towards which the appropriate funding gradually shifts. You know how important we are to the development of very high speed. I recall our goals and the timetable: a good broadband for all by 2020, a very high broadband for all by 2022. I also announce that we are working on new solutions to cover particularly the most isolated rural areas thanks to a French satellite offer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u4	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u5	This can be a solution for these isolated territories; In any case, we will look at everything that will achieve this objective in order to be able to invest, open up the territories and create jobs there. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As part of our economic choices, I would like to announce that the Government will table an amendment of €1.7 billion in commitment authorities to finance the Charles de Gaulle Express infrastructure programme. This loan will result in payment credits starting in 2019. The aim is to have the necessary visibility with regard to the financing of this major infrastructure project.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u6	Mr Xavier Roseren, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u7	Madam President, the Minister of Economy and Finance, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the French economy is regaining its vitality, as evidenced by the net creation of 300,000 jobs and the gradual resumption of investment. This favourable environment must prompt us to embark on major projects in order to rethink our economic system, to adapt it to the realities and to remove the obstacles that prevent it from reaching its full potential. That is the path we are taking, with the Government and the majority, through a coherent package of reforms. We have seen the beginnings of this summer, with the ordinances on social dialogue, and this work continues today with the PLF and the PLFSS, budgetary translation of the public policies that we intend to carry out to combat unemployment, develop our economy, protect the most fragile and face the challenges of today and tomorrow. The "Economy" mission, which I am, together with Olivia Gregoire, Special Rapporteur for Enterprise Development and Regulation, tends to undertake a massive effort, both fiscal and budgetary, in favour of companies. As far as taxation is concerned, the effort is unprecedented. The competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – attached to the Mission's 134 programme is expected to reach €20.9 billion in 2018, up 4 billion from 2017. Its transformation into a drop in social contributions as early as 2019 will make it possible to set up a sustainable fiscal effort in favour of companies, simplify procedures, but also to integrate into the scheme sectors that were previously excluded from them, in particular that of the social and solidarity economy. The reduction in corporate tax, which is expected to reach 25% by 2022, has begun in 2018. A special effort is being made for SMEs, as the normal corporate tax rate – IS – increases from 33% to 28% for the first 500,000 euros of profit. Finally, the liberalization of capital taxation will help to direct savings towards businesses, especially smaller ones. It is this logic that guides the transformation of wealth tax – ISF – into property tax – IFI – and the introduction of the single flat-rate levy – PFU. This set of measures thus contributes to the creation of a more favourable, stable and legible ecosystem, which will increase the attractiveness of the French economy. The second pillar, of a budgetary nature, calls for a two-stage analysis which distinguishes between the appropriations of the "Economy" mission and those of the Grand Investment Plan. Under the 134 programme alone, EUR 1.02 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 983 million in payment appropriations are planned for 2018, again a stability of appropriations compared to 2017. The Public Finance Programming Act provides, however, that the Mission's appropriations will be increased to $2.1 billion by 2020. The appropriations of the financial assistance account "Loans and advances to private individuals and bodies", attached to the mission "Economy", remain stable, at 100 million euros. In particular, they make it possible to abound the economic and social development fund – FDES – which provides loans to firms in difficulty. Outside the scope of the "Economy" mission, the Government's commitment to the dynamism of the French economy will also be based on the €57 billion Grand Investment Plan, which will be launched in 2018. In the area of innovation and business support, 3.5 billion will be allocated to support French scientific excellence and 4.6 billion to support innovation in companies. At the same time, the fund for break-up innovation, endowed with 10 billion, will support break-up technologies in order to prepare the French economy for the major developments to come. Finally, the next law on business, called the PACTE – an action plan for enterprise growth and transformation – will include various measures relating to the creation and transmission of enterprises, the financing of the economy, the simplification of relations between enterprises and administrations, aid for exports, as well as interest and participation. This bill will complement the reforms already underway to date. I welcome the innovative method used to prepare it, a guarantee of our willingness to work together, with the constitution of six pairs, each composed of a businessman and a parliamentarian, and the launch of an online citizen consultation. This new model for the construction of laws opens a constructive dialogue between all the actors. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, we call for voting on the credits of the "Economy" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u8	Mr Nicolas Forissier, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u9	It is up to me, on behalf of the Committee on Finance, to make a brief statement on external trade and the internationalisation of our businesses, which, according to the cross-cutting policy document which was first presented to us this year, is the subject of twelve different programmes – here too, reforms seem to be needed. The strict scope of my report is narrower since it concerns action 07 of programme 134 of the mission "Economy" managed mainly by the Ministry of Economy, although the competence falls under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for a total amount of appropriations of 154 million in commitment authorizations and 155 million payment appropriations. This action has two main components. First component: Business France's public service expense subsidy, which amounts to 95.26 million this year, down by 2.5 million compared to 2017 programming. Taking into account all of Business France's public subsidies, including those issued by the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and the Ministry of Agriculture, they are down 2.6%. Business France has suffered a 20% drop in its credits over the last five years, which I think is a matter of concern. The second important component is the remuneration of Bpifrance Assurance Export for its services performed on behalf of the State, set at $58.6 million in commitment authorities and $59.6 million in payment appropriations. The decrease is 19.3% in 2018, but to be honest, the actual decrease does not exceed 3%, given the exceptional movements related to the transfer from Coface to Bpifrance that took place the previous year. These credits are falling, therefore, even as the external trade situation continues to deteriorate. Since 2000, France's share of the world market has been halved to 3.7% today. Our trade deficit is twice as high as in 2005. We had a deficit of EUR 48.1 billion in 2016, even though Germany had a trade surplus of 253 billion. In the slippery year, we are now over EUR 60 billion in trade deficit. I would remind you of these figures so that we are aware of a situation which is not very satisfactory, that is the least we can say. We must react, Minister, as I have already said in committee. This reaction must be strong. I appeal to your knowledge of the economy and your will. I am also referring to what the President of the Republic has announced, who says he wants to transform the economy, as our colleagues like to remind us. Shit! In this case, however, we must finally take the necessary measures to remedy this situation. Foreign trade is the black spot of the French economy today. There have been positive reforms in recent years, and I stress it quite consensually. The reform led by Mr Fabius, who has been very involved in this field, aimed at putting together the Quai d'Orsay and Bercy was an important new step in France's export team. The creation of Business France, concluding a project in which I myself had been able to participate a few years ago with the total merger of the national bodies, the French Agency for International Investments – AFII – and Ubifrance, is also a good element. But we are suffering from a lack of political signs. I said in committee that there was no government ministry whose title includes foreign trade. I am not calling for a gadget, but for political signs to show that foreign trade must be a national priority. The consequences of this must be drawn from the budget, Mr Minister, and finally the reform of the public system must be completed. Budgetaryly, Business France's credits are down. Today, with the public subsidy, it can no longer even cover its payroll costs, which means that it is obliged to increase its billings, in numbers and prices, which is not good for the companies it is supposed to accompany. Bercy also asked Bpifrance Assurance Export to limit the loans on prospecting insurance to 32 million in 2018 and 28.5 million in 2019, while it is the preferred tool for SMEs, it works extremely well and we are the only ones in the world to own it. This shows a very restrictive vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u10	Please conclude, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We must give a strong sign, sanctuarize this budget and stop the annual planks that we have known for years. Finally, we must lead – and all actors are ready to do so, including Business France, the state services and the consular or employers' circles – the definitive reform of the public export support system that will allow our companies to have a real readability. You know the need for this reform, Minister, which must be based on political will. We're waiting for him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u12	It's a major subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u13	Mr Philippe Chassating, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u14	Programmes 220 "Statistics and Economic Studies" and 305 "Economic and Fiscal Strategy" contain budgets that contribute to the recovery of public finances. However, budgetary sobriety cannot be reduced to mechanical planing measures, deviating from substantive reforms. On the contrary, the ongoing search for savings must encourage innovative approaches, so that our administrations engage in long-term performance approaches and adapt to changing needs. Together with my colleague Special Rapporteur Alexandre Holroyd, we note that efforts have been made on the various items of expenditure, but that there are still important levers for improvement. Funded by programme 220, the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – INSEE – must respond to a growing social demand for statistics, while assuming a lasting constraint on its resources. Productivity efforts have reduced the workforce by a quarter in 15 years, and compensation costs will fall next year for the fifth consecutive year. But this path of savings calls for increased investment in human resources. Nearly half of INSEE's staff will retire within ten years: it is therefore necessary to prepare for the evolution of trades and skills, to increase the training of new staff, to renovate the way in which work is organised and to re-examine the territorial arrangements. In support of its Insee Horizon 2025 modernization plan, we hope that the Institute will have a real multi-year visibility over its appropriations. INSEE will thus be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by big data, which require appropriate programming of investment and research and development and which require greater sharing of statistical methods at European level. With regard to the 305 programme, almost 60% of the appropriations cover the services provided by the Banque de France on behalf of the State, for EUR 250 million entered in 2018. The vast majority of the expenditure relates to the secretariat of departmental over-indebtedness commissions, a mission that mobilizes more than 1300 full-time jobs from the Bank of France, or 28 per cent of the staff of its network. The volume of cases processed by the Banque de France increased from 231000 cases processed in 2014 to 185,000 cases expected this year. This decline, which we welcome, is the result of a determined policy to prevent over-indebtedness, in the Acts of 2010 and 2013, which regulated consumer credit and improved information for borrowers. Similarly, the legislator has simplified the treatment of over-indebtedness, both in the interest of the over-indebted and in order to enable the Bank of France to reduce its secretarial costs. However, its significant fixed costs did not allow it to adapt rapidly to the decline in the volume of files. While the appropriations entered in the budget by the State have decreased by 21 % since 2012, the Bank of France has passed on its full costs by reducing the State's share to its dividend. This resulted in a loss of revenue in the general budget. We regret this contraction in revenue and expenditure, contrary to budgetary sincerity. The State has now contractually established with the Banque de France a multi-year downward trend in the allocation, in support of the Ambitions 2020 modernization plan, which provides for the closure of sub-departmental branches and concentrates on the management of debt over-indebtedness files in 35 shared processing centres, compared with 117 today. We hope that the programme's performance indicators will attest to the impact of this plan as soon as the next budget comes. In addition, we believe that this reform should be fully articulated with the ongoing experiment in four pilot regions of a network of "budget advisory points", qualified associative interlocutors, partners of the Bank of France, which could ultimately represent a new solution for the physical reception of over-indebted people. Finally, the 305 program brings together the staff of the Treasury Directorate General and its international network. Last year, 178 contracts of more than 10 million euros were concluded by French companies abroad with the support of the economic services of the embassies. Over the past 10 years, the network has been down by a quarter and has redeployed to the new and fast-growing countries. However, room for manoeuvre is limited by the weight of expatriation costs in the payroll. In order to cope with budgetary constraints without loss of skills, new posts should be allocated, wherever possible, to locally recruited qualified personnel, as is the case in many European countries. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Similarly, there is a need to improve the complementarity of the various networks of the State abroad. The Prime Minister has announced that he will convene in early 2018 the interdepartmental committee responsible for overall leadership, the CORINTE, which has not been convened since 2009. We hope that the arbitrations that will be rendered will provide new levers of efficiency for the Treasury network, which is essential to our economic diplomacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u15	Pursuant to article LO 185 of the Electoral Code, the President received from the Constitutional Council a decision setting aside the legislative election of 11 and 18 June 2017 in the first electoral district of Val-d'Oise, following which Ms Isabelle Muller-Quoy had been declared elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u16	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u17	We resume our review of the "Economy" mission. Mr Paul Christophe, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u18	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, foreign trade is a strategic sector for the French economy. France is now the world's sixth largest exporter of goods and services, with exports accounting for almost 30 per cent of its gross domestic product. However, the external trade figures for 2016 are not up to expectations. Thus, the balance of trade in goods worsens by EUR 3.1 billion in 2016, after having already fallen by almost 30% in four years. The deficit in trade in goods and services has been increasing for the first time in five years and the balances of the traditionally driving sectors of French international trade have been eroded. In this context, we can only regret the decrease in the appropriations allocated to external trade. I will take as my only example the subsidy for public service charges paid to the operator Business France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u20	The appropriations allocated to the operator are down 2.8% compared to 2017, from 98.1 million to 95.3 million. This decline has been ongoing since 2015, which has led to a decrease of 9.5% in three years. In addition, Business France's employment ceiling is also decreasing, by ten full-time equivalents compared to 2017. We deplore this reduction in human and financial resources, at a time when the need for public support is particularly clear. In foreign trade, one issue is essential: the place to be taken by the major metropolitan seaports. Indeed, maritime transport plays a crucial role in the development of international trade. It accounts for almost 90% of world trade, 60% of intra-European transport and 78% of French imports. In addition, the port sector has been generating a positive contribution to the trade balance since 2013. The companies and services of the maritime industry represent more than 100,000 direct and indirect jobs in France and a value added of 1500 billion euros. Yet the port economic model is out of breath. Even though our ports have considerable assets, their potential is under-exploited, as their competitiveness is declining. France, with 5 million containers handled, occupies only the seventh European ranking and its traffic has decreased by 0.3% between 2015 and 2016. In the end, one in two containers arriving in France pass through a foreign port. This is quite unacceptable, as the loss of profits is considerable. Five million diverted containers represent a loss of 4.3 billion euros in value added and 30000 to 50000 jobs, for products that, whatever happens, are imported before being consumed in France. Customs taxes are also lost, paid to the European Union, but of which 25% are returned to the State of arrival of the goods. That is why it is now essential to devise an ambitious and realistic port policy for the benefit of our external trade. We make several suggestions. First, the State must develop a genuine national port strategy, the terrestrial dimension of which must be the pivot. It is indeed essential and urgent to improve the service of port infrastructures, which, because of its weakness, today causes our ports to lose a large number of potential customers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u21	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u22	There is also a need for public authorities to ensure that ports, in the regulations imposed on them, are fair compared to their European equivalents, and to simplify the overall legislative and regulatory environment, which penalizes and slows them down in their investment projects. Finally, the State must, in the negotiations that the European Union will conduct with the British authorities, ensure that the port economy is protected from the serious consequences that Brexit could have. The French ports, for their part, must ensure that they coordinate with each other in order to replace the logic of competition which prevails between them with a logic of complementarity. They can also carry out initiatives to remedy the shortcomings of the transport networks, through port rail operators. Finally, it is up to them to continue and accelerate the digital and ecological transition, in order to develop data transmission systems or positive energy ports. However, for all these actions, they need the support of the public authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, LR and LC groups]] Under these conditions, the value added produced by the French maritime economy will be able to double by 2030, as the OECD announces for the global maritime economy. This will then benefit the territories, which will see their industry and jobs preserved, businesses, which will be able to export more easily, consumers, who will be able to buy imported products whose safety will be guaranteed, and all citizens, who will benefit from a less polluted and healthier environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u23	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u24	Tuesday morning, with my friend Laurent Jacques, Mayor of Tréport – who attended our session yesterday – we were on the historic site of Verescence, ex-SGD, world leader in luxury flasking. It was in this factory installed in the Bresle valley since 1896...,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u25	That I know well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u26	... which you know well, Minister, to launch the reconstruction of oven 6 and to celebrate an investment of 30 million euros on this site which produces 200 million bottles per year for the most prestigious brands. The aim was to demonstrate an industrial success based on the know-how of workers and the intelligence of 850 employees. This good news is the result of the mobilization of an entire territory, which is an example when I present this report. Mobilisation of glassworkers and their representatives, who, at the time when a predatory fund of type LBO – raised buy-out – planned to siphon this flagship, have been able to carry up to the highest level of the state, thanks to the expertise of their works council, a shared industrial project, implemented today. Mobilization also of the inhabitants and elected representatives, who have been able to convince the public authorities that in a territory where industrial GDP reaches 22 per cent, industry combines with the present and the future. This example, beyond the pride it arouses, shows that when one takes care to listen to the opinion of the employees, what the draft ordinances will make more difficult, when, as at Alpine Renault, one believes in the renewal of a sports vehicle made in Dieppe, made in France, when one gives itself the means until the expropriation, as at M-Real in Alizay, to save the paper industry of the Eure, when one facilitates, by reactive guarantees, the revival of the madeleines made in Normandy of the company Jeannette, in Caen,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u27	Relaunch in which I strongly participated!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u28	...bref, whenever the intelligence of the employees is relayed by political voluntarism, industrial renewal is at the rendezvous. If, on the contrary, the laissez-faire, the least state and the auctioning of our fleurons are right for those who dream of a country without factories, then industrial employment falls by 25% in fifteen years. It is a matter of regret, as my report details, that by lowering the appropriations for industry by 12%, you are not responding to these issues. I hope that you will take into account our willingness to give its means of operation to the paper-making technical centre by accepting our amendments on the subject. The aim of this report is modestly to convince you that industrial decline is not inevitable, provided that you have the means to evaluate costly public policies and the relative effectiveness, in particular that of the CICE, to reorient them, and to combat tax, social and environmental dumping. This report provides some guidelines for the long-term structure of industrial sectors. This involves combating the desertification of the territories, implementing an ambitious training policy and driving a new governance of industrial enterprises. Mr Minister, there is an urgent need to find ways to ensure the capitalistic stability of these companies, as the Germans do. The financialization of the economy is shaking our industries. Stable control blocks have left more room for institutional investors, including many foreign investors. This has led to harmful practices such as acceptance of the LBO, which represents an over-remuneration of capital that is not compatible with sustainable industrial strategies. Asked about the means that the State should deploy to promote capital stability, Benjamin Griveaux replied that capital-friendly taxation should be put in place. A fair reasoning when you know that 120 of our biggest companies are likely to be the object of an OPA, friendly or not! I hope that the next committee of inquiry of the National Assembly on the recent mergers of industrial enterprises will help to identify more effective and beneficial levers for the entire economic and social body of the country. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Changing corporate governance and financing mechanisms is a necessity. Bpifrance could become the financial tool of this industrial policy. Foreign investment could be better controlled. Employees could have greater influence in the strategic directions for a genuine economic dialogue within companies. In the meantime, Minister, I fear that the Ministry of Productive Recovery, which was ineffective for failing to arm the state, is giving way today to a ministry of productive renunciation, with the force to continue disarming it. For these reasons, I will issue an opinion against the adoption of the appropriations for the "Economy" mission relating to industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u29	I'll answer you, Mr. Jumel. These are places I'm attached to.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u30	Mr Vincent Rolland, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u31	The appropriations of the "Economy" mission show a stable level in this finance bill. Of course, there is a 7% decrease in commitment authorisations, but it is in line with the planned funding path of the very high-speed France plan. On the other hand, the appropriations under programme 134 "Business development and regulation" show a marked increase, of 17.5% in commitment authorisations and 2.9% in payment appropriations, which I would like to welcome. But this increase in appropriations masks a number of perimeter measures, and choices that are at least questionable. I regret the decline in several essential expenses for our companies: the funding of the Fund for Services, Crafts and Trade (FISAC), the personal services sector, the subsidies to industrial technical centres, and the appropriations of the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF) and subsidies to consumer associations. I also note the disappearance of all intervention expenditure for tourism, which was previously included in Action 21 of this programme. If the Committee on Economic Affairs has chosen to give a favourable opinion on the appropriations for the 134 programme for enterprises, these reductions in appropriations have justified an unfavourable opinion on me. In the second part of this opinion, I have also chosen to come back to the issue of company transmissions, which remain too weak in our country. However, this issue is of crucial importance as the population of our entrepreneurs is ageing and a well-functioning market for corporate divestitures is essential for growth and employment, especially for our SMEs. The examination of barriers to transmission suggests that, if administrative and tax obstacles exist, the bulk of the effort should be to accompany the transferors and the buyers. The main obstacles to transmission are psychological and human. I make proposals in my report to strengthen this support, in particular an increase in Bpifrance's support for those who use it. I am also making other proposals to simplify the legal and fiscal framework for divestitures, in particular the simplification of the Dutreil Pact and the abolition of obligations under the Social and Solidarity Economy Act with regard to prior information to employees in the event of divestiture. Finally, I would like to go back to a reduction in appropriations which has drawn my particular attention to this budget, the one affecting FISAC. It is proposed to increase its resources in 2018 from EUR 16.5 million to EUR 14 million in commitment authorisations. However, this fund plays an essential role in preserving and modernizing the commercial fabric in rural areas, in the priority areas of city policy and in the city centres. Do I have to remind you that in the finance law for 2010, FISAC was awarded €78 million? In less than ten years, his means have been divided by five! However, the situation of shops and crafts has not improved radically during this period. I have therefore tabled an amendment to improve the resources of this fund. During its examination in committee, he received the support of colleagues from a wide range of trends in our House. The rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance has tabled an amendment along the same lines. In this connection, I would like to remind all my colleagues that on 6 October last, in front of the French Federation of Buildings, the President of the Republic declared that he wanted to "revitalise FISAC [...] to put it at the service of a strategy with municipalities, departments and regions". In the enlarged commission, the Government has remained unclear on the scope of this reform, but I believe it is important to give more funding to FISAC.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u32	Please conclude, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u33	I hope that our discussions today will enable us to achieve support from the local economy more in line with its challenges. It is about the economic balance between our territories and their vitality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u34	Well said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u35	Mrs Christine Hennion, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u36	My report deals with the budget appropriations for the digital economy and telecommunications. In addition to the analysis of these appropriations, on which I will return, I have devoted an important part of this report to two subjects which are dear to me: on the one hand, a stage review of the policy of opening up public data following the adoption of the law for a digital Republic, and on the other hand, the implementation of a platform state, which relies on the digitalisation of public services to adapt to the uses of our fellow citizens. As far as the appropriations are concerned, I must make a statement of a balanced budget. As far as the taxation of telecommunications operators is concerned, we are in a particular period of time. Several spectrum authorizations are being renegotiated between the Government and operators, and we hope that this negotiation will be as demanding as possible in terms of digital coverage. This may need to be done by resetting the specific taxation of telecoms. As a first step, and with a view to the future deployment of 5G, it might be appropriate to envisage a ceiling of the "mobile" IFER – flat-rate taxation on network companies, concerning mobile telephone relay antennas – in exchange for ambitious deployment commitments by telecommunications operators. Secondly, your rapporteur would like this reflection to be integrated into the broader context of the European telecommunications market, which will pose new challenges in terms of network taxation. This new scale, which will bring new opportunities to our companies, could make it necessary to have a more relevant tax base of the fixed IFER, which today concerns only the copper network, as well as a reduction or even a abolition of the tax on mobile telephone operators. That is why I have not tabled any amendments of a fiscal nature on this subject: wait until we know what the outcome of these negotiations is in order to intervene. Finally, as far as the operators' budget is concerned, I must admit a certain perplexity, if not a real concern, about the budgetary perspectives of the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications and Posts – ARCEP. New tasks are assigned, at a very regular pace, to this independent authority, often at the initiative of Parliament, which has confidence in its analysis and expertise. Yet ARCEP's employment ceiling is likely to be reduced, which seems to me incompatible with the execution of these missions. I therefore draw the Minister's attention to the importance of preserving the budget and the jobs of this independent administrative authority. On the thematic part, where are we in the open dataen France? I have conducted a dozen hearings on this subject, and I have thus found that the opening of public data is beneficial not only for the services of the State but also for the users and for the French innovation ecosystem. It is therefore necessary to continue to promote the expansion of this policy, particularly to those administrations that are not yet all aware of their new legal obligations. In this regard, I commend the Etalab mission for its pedagogic work within the state services, as well as the CADA – Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs – and the CNIL – Commission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés – for having successfully adapted to the digital revolution of their missions. However, for open data policy to flourish, there is an urgent need to simplify the legal framework and improve its readability. Indeed, many recent laws define data differently and use poorly defined concepts. This applies to all companies and services whose economic model is based on the exploitation of data, such as Météo-France, IGN – the National Geographical Institute – or INSEE. These companies need to be clear in order to transform themselves effectively. In connection with open data, there is of course the policy of digital transformation of the state. It is necessary to promote the establishment of a platform State, that is, a State that "horizons" the relations between public services and users, creating new uses and defining a better quality of service. In the framework of Public Action 2022, the digital transformation of the State is a priority: it is welcome. However, existing initiatives, such as the "state startup" of DINSIC – the interdepartmental Directorate of Digital and the State Information and Communication System – should be encouraged, which, with limited resources, achieve excellent results in terms of the efficiency of the public service. My report and my proposals are an opportunity to recall that the Platform State will only be relevant if the 13 million people who today do not have access to or know how to use the Internet are properly accompanied by a very ambitious digital inclusion policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u37	I call Mr Buon Tan, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u38	The situation of our foreign trade is of great concern. The trade deficit has worsened considerably, exceeding EUR 60 billion in 2017: it is a historic record. Even the services sector, which is usually in surplus, has become a deficit. Of course, there are cyclical factors, such as the rise in oil prices, and structural factors, including the lack of competitiveness of our companies. The reforms already under way by the Government will largely address these issues. But let us not look at it: it is our system of accompanying companies to export that now shows its limits. Despite reforms welcomed by all stakeholders, more than 100 organisations are in charge of external trade. The direct consequences of this mille-feuille are a lack of visibility for SMEs and TPEs as well as a dispersion of budgetary resources. There are also duplications among players, or worse, competition. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is alarming, and every day that goes by makes the situation worse. Beyond the figures, 24 per cent of our jobs are affected. Exporting is also an important lever of growth for our companies: it is even by exporting that the TPEs can become SMEs, and the SMEs of the ETIs – these famous mid-size companies so few in our economic fabric. Our products, brands and technologies are appreciated and expected throughout the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you a conviction that we must immediately embark on a cultural revolution in our approach to foreign trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u40	Let us try to turn the page of our habits and invent the tools of tomorrow from the needs of the users, namely the bosses of SMEs who cannot export and the international buyers who cannot find our products. I am calling in concrete terms for a transformation organised around three axes: simplification, facilitation and innovation. Simplify, first, by replacing the current millet with a one-stop shop. Then facilitate SMEs' access to public tools by reducing limitations and relaxing access conditions. Innovating, finally, by rethinking the existing one, inventing the tools that are lacking and creating the "Comptoirs de France". The alarming observation I have made is now shared by all. So I will ask you three specific questions, minister. The roadmap of the new Business France team plans to propose and implement a new external trade organisation in a spirit of joint enterprise. Are these ambitious reforms compatible with a further drop in allocations, after 20% in recent years? It's a construction site that requires resources. That is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs has adopted an amendment to renew Business France's appropriations in order to avoid a new €3 million plan, and another to ask the Government for a report on this issue. Will you support them?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u41	These are two excellent amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u42	As a result of budgetary constraints, subsidies to Business France have experienced successive declines, and these declines have had perverse effects. For example, we see that invoicing business services now accounts for 50% of Business France's budget. At the same time, the number of TPEs and SMEs using prospecting insurance has been divided by two in two years. At the same time, the export insurance managed by Bpifrance has generated EUR 600 million in surpluses every year, and this has been for more than 20 years. Shouldn't part of this surplus be reused in favour of our foreign trade? All the more so since every euro invested in this field leads to an increase in exports from 5 to 70 euros! It is unthinkable that France, an emblem of gastronomy, luxury and innovation, rich in its innumerable local specialities, is the red lantern of exporting countries. However, to export, our companies, which are often TPEs and SMEs, have specific needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u43	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u44	I therefore propose to experiment with "Comptoirs de France" where the multitude of small producers and foreign buyers will be put in contact. They will also provide viable logistical solutions. Are you ready, Minister, to support this experiment? Subject to the amendments I have mentioned, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has given a favourable opinion on external trade appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u45	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups, for five minutes each. The next speaker is Mr Damien Adam, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u46	Live from the Bahamas!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u47	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, behind the figures are small businesses, which have only one objective: to survive, to grow and to hire. There are also other, stronger companies which, in order to continue their development, aspire to export, but cannot do so without accompaniment, without support, in a context of international competition. There are still municipalities, which are mobilizing to install the very high speed for their inhabitants, or students, who benefit from the scheme of international volunteerism in companies and thus contribute to the promotion of France. Finally, there are consumer associations, which provide consumers with independent, high-quality information. All these individuals, whether natural or legal, are beneficiaries of the policies grouped within the mission "Economy", whose appropriations remain stable in this finance bill, despite a constrained budgetary context. These appropriations thus amount to EUR 1.64 billion for 2018, a slight decrease compared to 2017, which is due to an effort to rationalise. However, as part of the multi-year public action transformation project decided by the Government, the Mission's budget is expected to increase by almost 1.8 billion in 2019, reaching over 2.1 billion in 2020. These appropriations give concrete expression to several political priorities. The first is support for the creation and growth of our businesses, because they will create the jobs of tomorrow. This support is obviously indispensable. Thus, the appropriations reserved for Bpifrance are rising, which I welcome. They will increase the volume of bank loan guarantees granted to businesses. On the other hand, the La République group intends to carry out an in-depth reflection on the diversification of the financing resources of TPEs and SMEs, which still rely mostly on self-financing. I would add that the business bill currently being prepared, which is expected to be tabled in Parliament by the Minister of Economy and Finance in April 2018, will undoubtedly allow us to renew the framework of our businesses and to provide them with new tools to innovate, transform, grow and create jobs. The second priority, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic, is to achieve high-speed digital coverage for the entire territory by 2022. This major project, which the Government intends to carry out through the France Plan Very high-speed, forecasts the deployment of new networks financed by public and private investments of more than €20 billion by the end of 2022. These new networks, distributed among private operators as well as public initiative networks, require between €13 and €14 billion of investment, of which €3.3 billion is State-owned. For 2018, €208 million of commitment authorisations will feed into the State support envelope. Third priority: we want to encourage our businesses, in particular our SMEs and ETIs, to export. This support is now mainly provided by two public bodies: Business France, which provides export support and participates in France's attractiveness to foreign investors, and Bpifrance Assurance Export, which supports SMEs and ETI internationally. The sharp deterioration in French foreign trade since the early 2000s has prompted the Government to set an ambitious target: to increase the number of French exporting companies from 125,000 to 200,000. Other ways to help our companies conquer the world can be used in the discussion of the business bill I mentioned a few moments ago. Finally, I would like to return to a major quinquennium issue, supported in part by credits from the "Economy" mission: industrial reconquest. The industrial haemorrhage of the last two decades has been particularly severe for France: between 1995 and 2013, our economy lost more than 900000 industrial jobs and 45% of export market shares. The causes of this phenomenon are known: insufficient value for money, difficulties in increasing the range, a lack of productive investment, innovation and training. However, it is not a question of forever regretting yesterday's economy, but of preparing – invest, innovate, form – to face the industrial revolutions of tomorrow. Our policy will thus focus on three objectives: to bring about the conditions for the increase in the range of our industry, by the reduction of corporate taxes, and the transformation of the CICE, to defend our industrial interests in globalisation, particularly at European level, by promoting European partnerships rather than foreign buyouts for our industrial florets, and finally to accompany the profound transformation of French industry, by reorienting investment in the financing of the real economy and by means of a financing fund for industry and innovation of the future. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It is in this context that the La République en marche group will vote for the appropriations for this mission, which will be destined to rise in power in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u48	Mr Julien Dive has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u49	Every time I take a stand, express myself, legislate here, I keep in mind what has led me to engage in politics in the service of our fellow citizens. And perhaps it is because I myself came from it, sons and grandsons of market traders, that the compass of my commitment is the defence of these women and men who embody the value of work, these women and men whom sociologist Christophe Guilluy defines as an integral part of today's middle classes, namely the self-employed, the artisans, the traders, the bosses of SMEs and the young start-ups. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is not policies that create jobs in France! It is all these women and men, all these entrepreneurs who engage on a daily basis and take their risks to create the economy, to create growth, to enrich our GDP in our territories, in our country. And our role for all of us is to support them, to protect them and to create conditions conducive to the economic development of their activities. We must therefore ask ourselves the following questions: what industrial policy do we want for France? What levers must we create to drive the digital economy or the solidarity economy? How do we identify the changes in the city trade and who will be the customer of tomorrow's trade? It is therefore with particular attention that I have focused on the content of the "Economy" mission of this finance bill, the challenge of which is to foster an enabling environment to encourage and make our businesses more competitive, in order to support growth and stimulate employment. This year, there is a 7% decrease in commitment authorities and a 0.33% decrease in the Mission's payment appropriations. I do not forget, minister, that you warned us in committee: "It will rise gradually throughout this quinquennium." But know that we will remain vigilant about this promise, for on such a vital subject, a given word, it is a word to be respected! Until then, my vigilance has focused on the Government's policy of supporting the local economy. I have already spoken on this in an enlarged committee, but it seems to me important to come back to it in a public sitting. The credits from the 134 program dedicated to trade, SMEs and crafts are falling in 2018, as every year! To take up the metaphor of Secretary of State Benjamin Griveaux, I would say that they melt like snow in the sun for several years. The Government thus proves that it still forgets the territories that are fighting desertification every day by removing essential levers for the survival of the city centres. With amendments on FISAC, we will undoubtedly have a debate in a few minutes on this subject. The Republican Group has tabled an amendment to increase the funds allocated to the Fund to enable it to fulfil its mission of revitalizing the fragile rural and peri-urban areas. I hope that Members from all the groups will not make a political policy and will vote for the increase in FISAC's appropriations for our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u51	Unfortunately, this decrease in programme 134 funding is part of a series of Government decisions that fuel the divide between our territories, including: the threat to the local authorities; the brutal elimination of assisted jobs used by small municipalities and economic associations; the increase in diesel taxation over the next five years, knowing that this fuel is mainly used by the 60% of French people who live in peripheral France and are therefore forced to drive, not to mention the fleets of companies. Looking at the Government's overall economic action, there are also reasons to worry about the employment and competitiveness of our enterprises. Thus, the drop in the CICE rate, from 7% to 6% in 2018, will inevitably increase the cost of labour and make our companies less competitive in the face of international competition. Similarly, the decline in appropriations for industrial research, on which I have already alerted you several times, Minister, does not bode well for French innovation. And thanks to you, with the abolition of the social scheme of the self-employed – RSI – or, more precisely, the removal of the single social partner, the self-employed will always have as many problems in recovering their contributions, but with multiple counters! Thus, far from simplifying a breathless system, the Government was setting up a gas plant that could only complicate the lives of self-employed workers. Finally, I note the lack of ambition with regard to international trade, while our trade balance is in a growing deficit. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LC groups]] For all these reasons and because we have a comprehensive view of your economic action, our group will not be able to vote in favour of the credits of the "Economy" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u52	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u53	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u54	The "Economy" mission sets the Government's main economic priorities for investment and growth. The appropriations on which we are going to vote in a few minutes have not changed significantly since last year. The means of this mission, consisting of programmes relating to enterprise development, studies, economic strategies and the France plan Very high speed are indeed stable compared to the initial finance law for 2017. The Government's budgetary choices are therefore rather courageous in the light of a particularly tense context that forces us both to be responsible and to prepare for the future. The MODEM and related group notes with satisfaction the balance found, which enables us to respond to the many challenges affecting business development, the digitisation of the territory and the further restructuring of our industry, while controlling public spending. Thus, despite these budgetary accountability requirements, we would like to welcome the State's support for SMEs, with an increase of almost 3% in the payment appropriations of the 134 programme and in particular the means available to Bpifrance to guarantee loans to enterprises, a provision which is known to have a significant leverage effect. I also welcome the acceleration of the France plan. Very high speed: the President of the Republic assured that broadband for all will be reached by 2020 and very high speed by 2022. Broadband for all and, more broadly, digital access are absolutely essential to address the territorial divide between Internet users and those excluded from it. We must take advantage of this plan to welcome the initiatives of several companies that have been able to find new solutions and managed to innovate intelligently with local operators. On the other hand, in the enlarged committee, many of us in all groups questioned you about the decrease in appropriations for the commitment authorisations of FISAC. This fund is particularly important for the preservation of the commercial fabric in rural areas, in medium-sized towns and in urban centres. I know you're committed to this, Minister, and you're committed to conducting a think-tank on a more effective and, above all, efficient strategic level. It's about doing better with less, you've reminded him several times. The device must be rethought and resized; the efforts concentrated. On this important subject, the involvement of parliamentarians in this reflection can certainly be useful. Like my colleagues, I can only be alarmed at the external trade situation. I regret, like many of them, the constant reduction in the appropriations allocated to Business France, which, as our rapporteur has pointed out, fall by 2.8%, from EUR 98.1 million to EUR 95.3 million, reflecting a lack of offensive strategy, our actions being more focused on the national than on the international. However, the export and internationalisation of our companies must be a priority for the state. It is the economic influence of our country and especially of our trade balance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u56	... with a cumulative 12-month deficit of $60 billion. On the other hand, another worrying signal: exports are increasingly concentrated on a smaller and smaller number of companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u57	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u58	I welcome, of course, the launch of the reorganisation and support of our companies for export, but let us not forget that these poor results are mainly due to our inability – or lack of will, and on this I am in touch with Mr Buon Tan – to transform our SMEs into ETIs in order to reach the critical size, which is at least 250 employees, in order to embark on export.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u59	That's right! That's exactly the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u60	A reshaping of our vision and mindsets is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u61	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u62	As for tourism, Minister, a sector that makes a very positive contribution to our trade balance and accounts for more than 7 per cent of GDP, I share the Government's objective of promoting France's destination. I welcome the announcement in the enlarged committee of the launch of a mission bringing together actors from the hotel, digital and institutional sectors: together, they will have to think about the financing of this promotion. However, our concern is not so much to welcome more visitors as to encourage them to spend more. And that's not necessarily a question of budget! The conclusion of this reflection in January is expected to set ambitious targets for the global flow of tourists, estimated at 2 billion by 2030. Our group will pay particular attention to this. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite some limitations, this budget reflects the Government's desire to bring France to the forefront in terms of attractiveness and competitiveness. The MODEM and related group will therefore vote for the appropriations of the "Economy" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u63	Very good intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u64	Christophe Naegelen, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u65	The "Economy" mission is important in that it aims to foster a sustainable and balanced growth of the French economy by enabling the territories, the women and the men who make up them, the companies to build the economy of tomorrow. Three essential points deserve our full attention in this mission. First of all, with regard to the programme 'Business development and regulation', we deplore the sharp fall in the appropriations for Action 21 'Tourism development', and in particular the cut in intervention expenditure which enabled, among other things, to support tourism federations. For our territories, this is a very bad signal. Of course, the appropriations allocated to tourism do not fall as a whole, because Atout France benefits from an increase in appropriations, but reducing aid for the structuring of the tourist offer in the territories to nothing while destination contracts and the poles of excellence are levers for regional planning is not likely to support the development of tourism in our rural communes. We also regret, Mr Minister, your lack of ambition for FISAC, which, however, plays an essential role in preserving the commercial fabric in rural areas, in priority areas of city policy and in degraded city centres. Let us remember that the state is there to repair territorial frailties.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u66	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u67	In view of the challenges ahead, it would be a matter of being more audacious! Then there is the very high speed, so important. In order to achieve the objective of coverage of the territory in very high-speed by 2022 – and in broadband by 2020 – the Government relies on the France plan Very high speed and provides its share of financing. However, last January, the Court of Auditors estimated the cost of the plan at 35 billion instead of the 20 billion planned, for targets set around 2030 rather than 2022. Understand that these differences of appreciation are not such as to reassure businesses as well as the inhabitants and communities of the territories... already late! It would therefore be necessary to have clarification on the matter. And it would also be important to focus on some departments as a priority. The digital divide needs to be fixed once and for all, and quickly. Finally, there is simplification. When I questioned Secretary of State Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne in an enlarged committee, he referred to the "right to error". It is very positive, in the sense that it must allow the transition from an administration that punishes to an administration that advises. It is urgent to go further by simplifying the overall administrative burden imposed on companies, which makes them waste time and keep them away from their core business. For our part, we have set up a working group parallel to the Business Plan, and I am currently working with the Vosges Young Business Leaders' Centre to make concrete proposals on this important problem that gangens the lives of our companies. Again, although your ideas are based on a good intention, you do not go far enough and send contradictory signals to companies. "We lower the loads, but not to what you had before! We want to be your partner, but we're cutting down the credits from the chambers of commerce and industry, which you'll be the first victims of! To the rural territories and their inhabitants, you say: "Everyone will have the very high speed, but we don't know whether it will be in 2022 or 2030, and whether it will cost 20 or 30 billion euros! We want to make you attractive, but we're not ambitious enough for FISAC and we're removing the help to structure the tourist offer! » Moreover, as the draftsman for the opinion, Paul Christophe, pointed out, one can regret the decrease in the appropriations allocated to external trade, in a general context which has deteriorated in terms of trade balances and at a time when the need for public support is particularly clear. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] Minister, on topics such as simplification, you can certainly count on our support and involvement. On the other hand, it is necessary to clarify things about your France Very high-speed plan, and to go further in the aid and general accompaniment of our companies, so that this quinquennium is just as much that of success together as that of success for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u68	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u69	It is up to me to replace to give the position of my group Dominique Potier, currently retained in the framework of the general statements of food. On reflection, I am very pleased, because as we have almost completed the review of the various budget missions, this mission, "Economy", with a traditionally wide field, sums up rather well the general spirit of your budget for 2018. We will vote against these appropriations. I want to explain why. For those who are well, this will continue! In this case, this will also continue for our companies, in any case for the most important ones, those that have the least difficulty in conquering markets. On the other hand, I will come back to this, and there are finally very few credits for our SMEs, SMEs and ETIs, although we know well – in any case those who know our territories well – that they are the true heart of our economic fabric. Indeed, if we compare France to the major European countries, such as Germany or England, we realize that it has many SMEs, but not enough ITEs. It is really necessary to grow our SMEs so that they become able to export.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u70	It's the key to success.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u71	This is not simple because it requires a lot of transformations in the company, especially in the legal and commercial services or back-office. But you have not increased, Minister, the appropriations allocated to Coface – Compagnie française d'assurance pour le commerce étrangère – and to Business France: this is a bit of a pity, because our SMEs really need to grow to improve our external trade balance. So, admit that at constant perimeter, and without the rise in power of the plan France Very high speed – which we launched in the spring of 2013 – which aims to cover the entire territory in very high speed by 2022 and mobilises an investment of 20 billion over ten years, shared between private operators, local authorities and the state, the credits remain stable or even decrease slightly. Indeed, this plan will only require payment appropriations from 2019 onwards. This development is quite incomprehensible, if not indecent, when it is known, as many attentive observers agree, that the Government is benefiting, thanks to the effect of the decisions taken under the preceding five-year period, from the adjustment of certain economic indicators. I am thinking in particular of the rise in growth and inflation. Again, admit it, minister, you are reaping fruit at the end of ripening. It would have been consistent if our SMEs and TPEs could have felt the effects. For example, we could have imagined creating an experimental investment fund to promote the energy transition of small businesses, targeted at FISAC – a beautiful tool on which we will have the opportunity to return. The counter-budget presented by the New Left Group at the beginning of October already affirmed our overall concern for TPEs and SMEs. That is why I will now propose an amendment for the transfer of appropriations to our TPEs and SMEs: this proposal aims to restore a necessary and welcome balance when you have already, Minister, planed the wage tax for large groups. Colleagues of the majority, the followers of the "at the same time" that you are should accept this proposal without too much difficulty. Through the support of our small businesses, it is ultimately investment in the real economy that needs to be strengthened. The nearly 25,000 billion euros that are domiciled in tax havens represent tens of billions of tax shortfalls each year for France, Europe and the citizens of the world, who are lacking in the real economy. The echo of the Paradise paper scandal has not weakened: it invites us to fight again against tax havens and tax optimisation. The examination of the appropriations for this mission could have been an opportunity for your majority to position themselves at the forefront of this struggle, in the continuity of the Sapin 2 law. Minister, I will also make a proposal on this point, and I hope you will accept it. If this is not the case, then we will be quite right to say that this budget is for the missed opportunities and the most fragile baton.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u72	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u73	We examine, through the programmes of the mission "Economy", the development of enterprises and the regulations, the plan France Very high speed, economic statistics and studies and finally the economic and fiscal strategy, and we will also see the special accounts "International Monetary Agreements" and "Loans and advances to private individuals or organizations". With regard to programme 134 "Business development and regulation", the objective of improving French competitiveness by supporting, up to EUR 100 million, electro-intensive companies affected by carbon prices is a nonsense in the face of the current climate challenge and the need for ecological transition. It highlights, once again, the contradiction between free trade, which involves competitiveness, and this ecological transition. These credits would be used much more effectively to bridge the decline in funding for consumer protection and to finance French SMEs and ETIs that have invested in the ecological transition. In the same program, the tax expenditures associated with the CICE are obviously critical. I won't miss it. Indeed, the cost of the scheme increases from 16.5 billion euros to 20.9 billion euros between 2017 and 2018, even though it is poorly targeted. Its sustainability, in the form of a reduction in social contributions, will lead to a low-wage trap. The cuts in social contributions implemented since the 1990s are very costly and have clearly failed to reduce unemployment in our country. The "1 million jobs" distributed by the Medef will not have changed anything. France will therefore ask for an information report on the reductions in contributions, in order to shed light on the use of this public money. In the finance bill for 2018, the Government also wants to double the funds dedicated to financing SMEs and ITEs, via the public investment bank Bpifrance. These loans increase from EUR 24 million to EUR 48 million, which will help to compensate for the chilliness of banks which do not always play their part, if not almost never, in financing the economy. We were very pleased with that. Until we found out about the Government's amendment, which reduced these appropriations by 7 million... The volume of loans guaranteed by Bpifrance to SMEs and ITEs will therefore be reduced: how can this back-up be explained? The government gives the rich without counting, but suddenly becomes very observant when it comes to financing the real economy: it is a climax, minister, when you are heard all the time talking about the "real"! With regard to France's Very Broadband Plan, France, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' work, notes that its cost is estimated at EUR 34.9 billion, whereas it should be only EUR 20 billion. In addition, private operators have invested only 1 billion instead of the 3 billion planned. Communities, already under financial pressure, suffer. We therefore ask the Government: do telecommunications operators comply with their commitments? With regard to the financial assistance account "Loans and advances to private individuals or bodies", the express amendment No. 1038, tabled by the Government without having been examined in committee, raises questions. This €1.7 billion amendment provides for a loan to a company created by SNCF and Aéroports de Paris to build the Charles-de-Gaulle Express rapid rail link project, which the minister told us about earlier. But, minister, you have not told us everything: this company would be granted a concession for fifty years. However, the Aéroports de Paris group is one of the companies often mentioned in the lists of forthcoming privatisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u74	It's called liberalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u75	If that were the case, we would end up with a majority private company, which will inherit the operation of the Paris-Charles-de-Gaulle rapid link for fifty years, without any safeguards regarding the charges it may charge. Why didn't the state conduct the works itself? Why is he using a 50-year concession? These are the questions that interest us and to which we would like to obtain clear and precise answers. And what guarantees us that we are not reproducing, on a small scale, what the state has done on a large scale with the motorways, which we talked about yesterday late in the night?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u76	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u77	The method adopted by the Government is also very critical: an amendment tabled at the meeting, which the committee did not examine and which covers 1.7 billion euros of commitment authorizations, an amount almost equivalent to that of the entire mission's appropriations! It is not up to Parliament to act in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u78	Precisely, this is a commitment authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and a few benches of the GDR group]] This disdain for national representation becomes your signature. Under these conditions, because it is in deep disagreement with the use made of public funds as with the methods employed, the group La France insoumise will vote against the credits of the mission "Economie".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u81	Mr Alain Bruneel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u82	The policies of this mission aim to promote employment and export development and to ensure the protection and safety of citizens and consumers, as well as to inform the economic and social debate. While the appropriations for the "Economy" mission are stable, they raise serious concerns. The first concerns the decrease in appropriations allocated to the Directorate-General for Competition and Fraud Prevention and the reduction of subsidies granted to consumer associations, such as the Institut national de la consommation – INC –, Que Choisir or the Confédération nationale du logement. Even though this reduction has been reduced in committee by means of an amendment, the clear point is that the continued decline in subsidies paid to associations over the past five years has reached 30% overall, which affects all those involved in consumer protection. The message sent by the Government is clear: it is to place the interests of companies and their shareholders above the general interest. It is also a leitmotiv of the policy led by the majority since July through the reform of the labour code as well as through fiscal policy which outrageously favours speculative rent to the detriment of productive investment. Our citizens are in demand for an ambitious policy of protecting their health, preserving the environment and reorienting economic policies towards the satisfaction of the common good. That is why almost two thirds of French people today consider themselves, Mr.Minister, to be losers of your policy: they feel legitimately blurred and the signals sent over the last six months have everything to worry them more. We still have an example in the field of SME policy on the one hand and industry on the other. On the one hand, you are sabering in the essential expenses of our companies: those of FISAC, those of the personal services sector, those of the technical centres. Since you came to power, the Italian Fincantieri has been able to take control of the Atlantic shipyards, Alstom has been sold to Siemens, and General Electric Hydro, in Grenoble, will lose almost half of its employees. Emmanuel Macron, then presidential candidate, promised to put an end to the haemorrhage of industrial jobs! He rightly recalled that between 1995 and 2013, our economy had lost more than 900000 industrial jobs and 45% export market shares, when Germany lost twice as much market share. He rightly pointed out that, over the last five years, net industrial job losses had continued, from 2000 to 16,000 jobs per quarter. It promised to create the conditions for an upscaling of our industry and to defend our industrial interests in globalization. What happened to these beautiful promises? They turned into tax gifts for shareholders and a noisy celebration of the virtues of competition and foreign investment in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u83	He has Gaullian accents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u84	[[Smile]] It's a renewed gaulism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u85	At the same time, bad news follows, without the Government raising its finger: closure of the Tupperware factory in Joué-lès-Tours – 235 jobs; restructuring of Coca-Cola France – 128 jobs; closing of a Nestlé group laboratory in Sophia Antipolis – 550 jobs; and General Electric Grenoble – 345 jobs – and the logistics branch of Intermarché – 130 jobs. Hundreds of posts are also threatened at Castorama and Brico Depot, due to the consolidation of accounting and management control activities in Krakow, Poland. Engie gently transfers her customer service abroad. At Orange, Nokia, PSA, restructuring continues at an accelerated pace. And the ordinances reforming the labour code, already in force, greatly facilitate the multiplication of social plans. As an industrial policy, you propose us to trust the market, to accompany a movement deemed inevitable by giving even more of our industrial fabric to financial appetites. The absence of a large Ministry of Industry is a sufficient indication of the lack of a strong political will in this area. However, getting our industry out of the rut is not out of reach. This would require an ambitious policy, in order to allow companies to finance themselves other than in markets, to renovate our industrial tools, to encourage lifelong learning to support the upscaling of our industry and to increase wages. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Given these serious shortcomings, we will vote against the budget for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u86	We are done with the expression of the group spokesmen. Minister, since you are asking to speak, I give it to you, but it cannot be a response to speakers' speeches.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u87	It is a procedural matter that I would like to raise, Madam President. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We have just heard very interesting speeches on major economic policy issues. I would like the budget debate to be "litany and lethargy", as has been said from a senior French politician, but that is not my conception of parliamentary debate. It was said earlier that there was contempt for national representation, or disdain, but there is none. When the Minister of Economy and Finance stays until the end of all the budgetary discussions, when he participates, with great pleasure, in the debates until two o'clock in the morning and then comes back in the morning to discuss with you, I think it is more a mark of attention than a mark of contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u88	It's just normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u89	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] But a debate without the minister answering? I am sorry, but I believe that this calls for a thorough review of our rules and behaviour, because if there is no exchange, there is no debate and therefore there is no deepening of subjects which, for the French, are nevertheless major.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u90	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I therefore ask the president: when will the Minister of Economy and Finance be able to answer the economic and financial questions that have just been asked by the national representative?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u93	A point of order, minister. All budget discussions are organized in the same way. They are organised by the Conference of Presidents, which did not provide for a response, since the speeches of Members are in some way explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u94	No, that's not the case with reports!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u95	You will have every opportunity to explain the position of the Government during the examination of the amendments, as well as during the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u96	In this case, I would like to express my deep regret at this method.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u97	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u98	I will be asked a series of questions on other topics. I'll be happy to answer it, but in two minutes! We have just discussed the country's industrial policy, foreign trade, the deficit in our trade balance, and I will only answer technical questions in two minutes. The representatives of the nation will not be properly informed and the French who listen to us and look at us will not have the answers of the Government on our industrial strategy and our commercial strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u99	We have already done this in an enlarged committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I tell you very sincerely: I deeply regret what I consider to be a bad democratic way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u101	Madam President, I ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u102	No, Mr Jumel, no speaking is possible on this point. Minister, this is a format for discussion. Your speech will be reported to the Conference of Presidents, which is a decision-making body in this area. We shall now turn to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u103	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u104	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u105	Madam President, under Rule 58(2) of our Rules of Procedure, I support the Minister's request to feed the parliamentary debate. We are several rapporteurs who have delivered an opinion on strategic issues that are committed to the future of France. It is important, if we do not want to lower the role of the State, the role of the Government and the role of Parliament, to allow the Minister to respond in a matter of minutes to the proposals and reflections made by our Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I propose, on the basis of the sovereignty of the House thus constituted, that we vote by show of hands on allowing the Minister to answer the questions raised in a matter of minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u106	First the questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u107	[[Exclaims on several benches]] Mr President, first of all, it is not the President-in-Office who decides the way things are going.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u108	Don't let the administration lead our debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u109	The debates shall be organised in accordance with a procedure laid down by the Conference of Presidents. That is how our institution works. There are among you group presidents who are participating in this conference. I myself will report on the remarks made by the Minister and yours, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We will then see if another procedure is decided. In any event, and in substance, Mr. Minister, before we proceed with the amendments, you will have every opportunity to clarify the position of the Government. The next speaker is Mr Marc Fesneau, who is still in favour of a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u110	[[Applause on the benches of MODEM, REM, GDR and FI groups]] Madam President, I understand that there are procedures for regulating our debates, but sometimes we can also decide not to stick to this rigid framework. We have been debating for an hour and a half, with interesting arguments and confrontations of ideas on the text. Like Mr.Jumel, I do not understand why we could not give the minister two, three, or even four minutes to answer us on a number of issues. I do not have the impression that, in doing so, we would unbearably free ourselves from the Rules of Procedure, and that would prevent us from being in a caricature of debate, with a litany of speeches, but without the Government's word. What do we do if we can't change things?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u111	President Fesneau, you are participating in the Conference of Presidents. All the budget discussions in the session were organized on the same model. They had so far not given subject to any particular remark.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u112	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u113	I repeat: the Conference of Presidents will consider this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u114	But everyone agrees!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u115	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u116	Under Rule 58(1) and (2) of our Rules of Procedure, I would like to remind the House that the debate which we have just had in the Chamber, together with the various rapporteurs, has already taken place in an enlarged committee: it is an identical repetition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u117	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u118	[[Long exclamations on many benches]] Mr Minister, in an enlarged committee, you have had every opportunity to respond to the speakers and to the questions that have been put to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u119	He wasn't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u120	[[Exclaims on the banks of the ERM Group and the FI Group]] [["No! »on several benches]] In an enlarged committee, the speakers of the groups and the draftsmen for opinions spoke, and the minister replied to each. Here, it is only the repetition of the enlarged committee, except for the amendments. The minister has already responded. He can very well refer to the answers he has made in the enlarged committee. There are traditions and regulations of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u121	We have to change things, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u122	I do not understand that the majority group is questioning them. It's ubiquitous.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u123	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor for another point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u124	Meanwhile, the minister would have had all the time to talk...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u125	[[Smile]] As the Rules of Procedure allow me to make a point of order to say what I want to say, I take advantage of it! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, REM and MODEM groups]] I agree with the views just expressed, except for the last one. Although things have been said in an enlarged committee, it is frustrating that the minister cannot answer the questions that have been asked both by the rapporteurs and by the representatives of the groups. Of course, there is a regulation, but let's get out of it from time to time, and make it simple! We need to think!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u126	The minister will answer after the questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u127	Mr President, I note that under the Rules of Procedure you are calling for a reform of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u128	[[Smile]] It's Marxist dialectics!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u129	We now turn to questions, but know that everything that has been said will be reported to the Conference of Presidents, which, if necessary, will take the steps that will allow Members to be more satisfied. We start with a question from the Republic Group on the move. Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u130	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, today in some rural areas, access to high-quality fixed internet access is not guaranteed. Many citizens feel a sense of isolation and abandonment, not to mention that companies may hesitate to set up in the event of limited digital coverage. Among those already installed, some may be discouraged, as they fail to perform their activities optimally. I can give you the example, in Yonne, of a company that has been in a small town for twenty years. Due to poor digital coverage which prevents it from continuing its national and international development, it plans to establish itself in the neighbouring department with its thirty employees. Mobile coverage also needs to be completed. In fact, 500 French communes are currently in white areas – let alone the whiteness of the so-called grey areas. At the territorial conference on 17 July 2017, the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, committed himself to the goal of broadband coverage by 2020 and very high-speed coverage by 2022. This was reflected in the draft finance law for 2018 by 208 million euros of appropriations allocated to the programme 343 "France Very Broadband Plan". The deployment of the new networks represents an investment of more than 20 billion by the end of 2022. Private operators will have invested 6 to 7 billion for about 3600 municipalities. In the rest of the territory, public initiative networks – FIR – will require an investment of 13 to 14 billion euros, of which a quarter will be financed by the State. According to our colleagues' information report Éric Bothorel and Laure de La Raudière on the digital coverage of the territory, community IPR projects are at very different stages of development. A lot of work remains to be done in order to achieve the objectives, especially since a foreseeable shortage of optical cables will have to be overcome, especially in the Yonne region, as early as the second quarter of 2018. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I therefore ask you, Minister, to clarify the operational implementation of the France Plan. Very high speed, particularly in liaison with businesses and communities, in order to meet the timetable set.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u131	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u132	We're turning the National Assembly into a shadow theatre and the minister into a potash.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u133	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u134	Take a potiche, it will cost the taxpayer less than a minister of economy and finance! [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, FI and GDR groups]] I stress the need for the minister, after an hour and a half of speeches by members of the National Assembly, to have ten or fifteen minutes to respond on such important matters. I will, of course, answer Mrs Crouzet's question, but I would like to start by looking at two figures: 48 billion and 1.4 million. This figure, 1.4 million, is the number of industrial jobs that we lost in 25 years in France; and 48 billion is the amount of the external trade deficit in 2016. I think the two are closely related. We will never restore an external trade surplus if we do not become a major industrial power again in the coming years. I am deeply convinced of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u136	And we can link it to the question I was asked about very high speed. How can we do that? First of all – and I am glad that, on all the benches of this House, regardless of the political colour, everyone agrees to say so – our small and medium-sized enterprises must grow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u137	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u138	They must become medium-sized enterprises. The conclusions of the last INSEE report, which has just been issued and which I recommend for your reading, are without appeal. Between 2009 and 2015, which companies created the most jobs? These are not large groups, nor SMEs: they are medium-sized enterprises. They contributed to the creation of 337,500 market jobs between 2009 and 2015. It is therefore urgent to transform our SMEs into ITEs, and that is the purpose of the bill that you will have to consider next year. That's indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u140	For them to grow up, we have to go with them first. This is what the Public Investment Bank is doing, as well as a number of other agencies. We also need to address the issue of reducing the burden on salaries above 2.5 times the SMIC. We cannot tell our industry to hire more and more qualified personnel, but which necessarily cost more, and concentrate burden relief only on low wages. I am in favour of reducing the burden, not only on low wages, on employment, but also above 2.5 SMIC for the competitiveness of our industry. The deployment of very high speed is also necessary; This is the meaning of the "very high-speed France" plan, which aims to enable our SMEs to grow throughout the country. The Government is prepared, Madam Member, to study new solutions for the most remote territories, such as satellite systems where fibre is too expensive. Accompaniment of course involves the implementation of mechanisms. A number of you, ladies and gentlemen, have asked me about Business France; in this case, the question seems to me to be less a matter of budgetary appropriations than of the organisation and simplification of our export mechanisms, as several of you have pointed out. The second key, to re-establish our industry and foreign trade, is innovation: it is the whole meaning of the research tax credit and the breaking innovation fund, on which I do not come back. The third key is as efficient an infrastructure as possible. On this subject, I was asked about Charles-de-Gaulle Express's project. Yes, the Government intends to grant him commitment authorizations now. Why? Because it does not want to lose a single month in the launch of this project, which will connect the largest French airport to the centre of Paris in twenty minutes. You will not make France an attractive country for investors and economic development if its largest airport is not properly connected to its capital.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u141	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u142	I therefore hope that many of you will support this provision. Finally, to be completely complete, a national strategy is not enough: a European strategy is also needed. All our efforts in terms of competitiveness, infrastructure development, reducing labour costs, improving the supply and size of enterprises will be in vain without greater integration within the euro area, without fiscal convergence, without our German friends investing more in infrastructure, and without pursuing the wage increase policy they have undertaken with the introduction of a minimum wage. What is very worrying is not only the deficit in our trade balance, it is its growing divergence, since the early 2000s, with the German trade balance, which is over EUR 234 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u143	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u144	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] A strong European economy cannot be built when Europe's first two economies diverge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u146	We come to a question from the Republican Group. Mr Jean-Luc Reitzer has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u147	[[Smile]] I will indeed endeavour, Minister, to stick to the two minutes that are given to me... The speaker from my group stressed earlier the importance of FISAC in supporting economic and commercial activity. Other economic actors, as you know, also contribute to the dynamism of our trade and industry: I want, once again, to talk about the chambers of commerce and industry – CCI. After a steady decline in the tax resources of our chambers, up to 35% over the last five years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u148	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u149	... and some 670 million euros of capital levies, the announcement of a further budget fall this year, which is also very important, is a very violent shock for them and for their 17,000 employees, of which I recall that they were 21,000 at the end of 2013. Without these men and women, how can the chambers of commerce accomplish their missions? They accompany companies in difficulty, as you have just said, and also those that are creating themselves. For example, the Chambre de Commerce d'Alsace Eurométropole accompanies some 2000 entrepreneurs each year. The same applies to training. In Alsace again – you will not mind me talking about this region – some 10,000 young people are trained every year on the sites and campuses, and about 1600 of them, since you talked about youth unemployment, go out with a job in their pocket. Finally, in the context of the French trade deficit that you described, the chambers of commerce play an important role in exporting. Without the human and financial resources they need, Minister, our CCIs can no longer have the same efficiency, and their aid to traders is being removed here and there, especially in the city of which I have been mayor for thirty-four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u150	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u151	I would therefore like to know, Mr.Minister, the reasons for this sharp budget reduction, and of course ask you not to sacrifice the chambers of commerce and industry...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u153	...on the altar of budgetary rigour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u155	You have the floor, Minister, for two minutes. I will then give it back to you before calling for the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u156	You asked me two questions, Mr. Reitzer. With regard to the chambers of commerce and industry, the Government decided, after lengthy discussions with them, to ask for an effort of 150 million euros, and then to give them visibility from 2019 until 2022. Consideration must also be given to their organization, in order to make them more effective. As far as FISAC is concerned, I know that there are legitimate concerns about the issue. I myself am elected from a rural department, in which many municipalities need help with revitalization. We will therefore have the opportunity to examine the proposals made by a number of you, in particular the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud. This will allow us to work together on ways to improve the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u157	Mr Jean Lassalle, for the non-attached Members, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u158	[[Smile]] Two minutes, yes: thank you very much for reminding me so fervently, Madam President. [[Smile]] Time is so short that I never know what I'm supposed to do. You, at least, Madam President, let me speak for a moment; But your predecessor, last night, didn't have that elegance, I wanted to stress it. I have had the chance to be a Member of Parliament under four legislatures, and have never been treated as badly as under this one; But you have nothing to do with it. I want to ask the minister about a few economic measures, for example the means of taxing Qatar on its investments in France: it would be an important source of financial revenue. I would also like to know what can be done with regard to Saudi Arabia. For the past few days, however, a subject deserves to be openly asked: the future of Algeria. What's that got to do with it? Tell me. President Bouteflika, a living mummy, must make a decision. The situation has plunged Algeria into extreme perplexity, and large societies are wondering. After the arrival of the Islamists in power twelve years ago, and the subsequent coup d'état, an agreement was reached between the actors, under which the army was to take power, with behind it the hardest branch of the Islamists. If this were to happen, the impact on French finances would be inconsequential with everything we have known so far. I imagine that you have not prepared an answer to this question, minister, but I am asking you without being in a hurry to get an answer: I only want to draw the House's attention to this very serious problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u159	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u160	Definitely, honourable Member, we have a lot of commonalities:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u161	I know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u162	...the Pyrenees, agriculture and now Algeria. In Algiers last Sunday, alongside my colleague Jean-Yves Le Drian, I recalled my attachment to this country, where my grandfather was born in 1899, and to the improvement of his commercial relations with ours. The President of the Republic, in the coming days, and the Prime Minister on 7 December, will have the opportunity to express France's willingness to improve economic cooperation between our two countries, which is in the interests of both. Very concrete signals were sent during this trip. The PSA plant project in Oran, which has been blocked for years, has finally been unlocked. Here again, it is in France's interest that the Algerian economy is doing better. It is also a way to avoid excessive migration flows and to regain real economic power for each country. Algeria is facing a major economic challenge with the fall in oil prices. It is making considerable efforts to restore the competitiveness of its economy and to provide jobs for everyone. We must encourage and accompany him in this direction. I will not be longer on the subject, but I want to tell you again how strategic it is for France to build, not only on memories of which everyone knows how painful they are on both sides, but also on a positive, conquering and economically sound future for our two nations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u163	Thank you for your elegance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u164	You see that the debate can be rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u165	We're done with the questions. Would you like to speak for a further statement before the amendments are discussed, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u166	Yes, Madam Chair, thank you for your understanding: I am not surprised at you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u168	This will allow me to come back to the question of foreign trade and that of industry. As far as external trade is concerned, improvements in our export-accompaniment arrangements remain insufficient. Mr Buon Tan has made a number of proposals on this point, in particular on simplification and innovation. I'm totally in favour of it. It is not by increasing the appropriations of a particular public body by EUR 1 or 2 million that we will achieve this, but first by significantly restructuring the export support scheme. How does Business France work with CCIs? What is everyone's role? How can a small business end up there? Would a one-stop shop not be a good solution? On all these issues, the doors are wide open and I propose that, as part of the business transformation bill that we will be discussing next year, you provide the most concrete answers possible. Proposals were also made in this area by Mr. Nicolas Forissier. I support any way to improve and simplify the system. The recovery of our foreign trade also requires, of course, an improvement in our supply. It goes, I do not believe, by all that I have mentioned: innovation, scale-up, restructuring of our productive tool, digitalisation of SMEs in order to transform them into ETI and, I stress on this point, solidarity within the French productive fabric. I do not understand why, on the other side of the Rhine, we see such solidarity between the major groups and the first- and second-class subcontractors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u169	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u170	... when, in France, one observes an unfortunate tendency to let each other down, with a general saviour-who-may-be where each one tries to manage himself, which is the guarantee that no one will get away with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u171	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u172	[[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and NG groups]] I plead for more Franco-French solidarity between major groups, first- and second-class subcontractors, SMEs and very small enterprises, because it is by being offensive and solidarity at national level that our economy will be able to survive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u174	I also want to add to my comments on the industry, because the stakes are great for our nation. There is not, on the one hand, the industry of tomorrow which is tremendously innovative, and on the other hand, the traditional industry, which would be destined to disappear. I want to be very clear on this, because it is a strategic choice of the President of the Republic and of the Government as a whole. Only the very high-tech industry would have a future, some say; But I don't believe it at all. There is, of course, room for this industry, illustrated for example by ST Micro Electronics, which I recently visited on my trip to Isère. A state-of-the-art Franco-Italian business model, it has highly developed technologies and has customers like Apple. The semiconductors it develops are among the best performing in the world, and that's so much better, and its investments in innovation are not in tens or hundreds of millions of euros, but in billions: all the better. This company is a magnificent champion, at the cutting edge of progress, technology and digitalization. It's perfect. On the other hand, there is in the Vosges a crystallary, the Saint-Louis crystallary, created in 1586. We can be just as proud of the know-how of his workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u175	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u176	Both are also necessary for the development of our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u177	Absolutely, especially since Baccarat left for the Chinese!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u178	You mentioned the Bresle valley, dear Sébastien Jumel, which I know well because it is the region of which we are both elected. I went there several times, and I visited the bottle shop you mentioned. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We can be proud to have a luxury bottlery in the Bresle Valley, which is recovering: it has regained its know-how, its technology and its competitiveness. However, with a bit of humour, I would like to point out to you that these small traditional companies, such as the Saint-Louis crystal-work or the high-end bottle-making industry in the Bresle Valley, cannot survive – it is a pity that the member of the La France group, who knows the subject well, is not on these benches today – without the support of a large luxury group like LVMH.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u179	LVMH has bigger margins than the bottle shop!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u180	That's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u181	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u182	For Alpine Renault, which you quoted, it's the same thing. I hope that we will have the opportunity to launch together the new Alpine Renault site in Dieppe. Alpine Renault, it's a nugget, it's our story – its blue of France had to make dream more than one among us, me the first. It would not have had a future, in Dieppe or elsewhere, if Renault had not been able to restructure itself, to enter into alliances and rapprochements, especially with Nissan, to be one of the first car manufacturers in the world. See, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a link between, on the one hand, the TPE, the SME, their ability to grow and, on the other hand, major global groups, which are on the road and which are among the most competitive in the world. It is therefore a comprehensive strategy that needs to be developed. The future of French industry, as I say again, obviously lies in improving our offer, in innovation, in the ability to digitalise, to grow, and in greater solidarity between large groups and SMEs – the issue of payment deadlines will probably be at the heart of discussions next year. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Let us not oppose an industry of yesterday to an industry of tomorrow: let us defend above all a national industry!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u183	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u184	Thank you, Minister. For the sake of understanding of our procedures, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Government takes the floor whenever it wishes, as long as we are no longer in an organised stage of the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u185	You are remarkable, Madam President. You're raising the level!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u186	When you're happy, you have to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u187	Yes, and when you're unhappy, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u188	I call the credits of the "Economy" mission, listed in Statement B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1178 by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u189	This amendment aims to guarantee on programme 134 the increase of 7 million euros of the tax allocated to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – ACPR –, voted in the first part of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u191	The guarantee of this amendment relates to the guarantee funds of BPI France, which are sometimes difficult to mobilise. This amputation of budgetary appropriations poses a small risk to its activity, which could lead to a decrease in the overall amount of loans. However, subject to assurances from the Government that the level of credits guaranteed by BPI France will not suffer from a reduction of €7 million in its budget allocation, we will give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u192	I call Mr Sebastien Leclerc to support Amendment No. 232.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u193	I have the honour to defend this amendment, the first signatory of which is Mr Viala. The only technology that makes sense and that allows the territories, especially the less well equipped at present, to approach the future with optimism is that of bringing fibre optics into each outlet, whether residential or professional. It is at this price and at this price alone that we will establish true equity between the territories, and above all between our fellow citizens. No other technological alternative is viable, since all obviates the possibilities of further evolution and deprives users of ever-expanding uses that will cover all possible fields – home automation, personal services, home care for the oldest or the most fragile. Given this fact, it is essential that the Government develop an ambitious plan for national digital coverage, without excluding any areas. However, it appears that all the appropriations for this plan have already been disbursed. Where are the credits supposed to finance the executive's almost daily major announcements about the ambition to link all the territories of our country to digital? How will local and regional authorities involved in the implementation of public interest networks – FIR – ensure cash advances? If the PLF announces implementation in 2020, the Prime Minister speaks of 2022 and the President of the Republic, the Government and the report of the two parliamentarians responsible for the matter, of 2025. If this is the case, it is necessary to release certain appropriations in order to maintain this plan until 2025. However, rural areas will not wait all these years for digital access. This digital coverage is essential to their survival, dynamism and development. It is not possible to think that professionals wish to pursue or establish their activity in an area without Internet and mobile telephony. The fight against unemployment and the desertification of our countryside, and more broadly, the revitalization of rural areas also requires the development of digital technology throughout our country. It is not acceptable that users living in rural areas cannot benefit from technological advances at the same rate as other users.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u195	Unfavorable opinion. At the National Conference of Territories on 17 July 2017, the President of the Republic committed himself to the goal of broadband coverage for 2020 and very high-speed coverage for 2022. The objectives are therefore clear, as well as the funding plan. Very high-speed fixed networks deployed by local authorities require between 13 and 14 billion investments. The state will bring exactly 3.3 billion by 2022. Funding will take place in two stages: first, a commitment phase; Then, a payment phase. As we speak, €2.3 billion has been committed to projects and €208 million more will be committed in 2018. It should also be noted that several hundred million euros have already been disbursed through the National Digital Society Fund. For all these reasons, it seems to me neither accurate nor justified to spread fears about State financing of part of the very high-speed coverage in the territory, to which we are, of course, all attached. That is why the committee has given an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u197	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u198	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u199	All on these benches, we can meet again to say that we need very high speed across all the territories. For operators, however, the return on investment in rural areas is not the same. Also, their participation in financing is much less: when it comes to private investments where returns on investment are needed, it is always rural life that is going to last! Yet it is an emergency for the territories. We have understood this in my constituency by engaging in fiber optics since last year. Small towns are already equipped with them: it is the communities of communes that have seized their hands. Mr Minister, will there be a system of compensation for those who have taken the lead, since digital coverage is an absolute necessity in our territories? Will you help us finance very high speed, because what we have already invested in this area has been done at the expense of other investments? We may have anticipated these investments too much, for which we would have liked better support from the public authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u200	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u201	I have co-signed this amendment because I think this is a particularly important issue. I would like to trust the Government to provide the necessary funding to complete the digital coverage of the territory in 2022. But the problem is also that operators can cover the territories with the most efficient technologies, at the rate at which the Government and the communities will invest – because they, it is well known, will have to participate in the financing. Under the previous legislature, the various operators, interviewed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, had stressed that they were unable to cover the whole territory before 2025, at best. And again, I think we were far from what we could hope for. I would therefore like the Government to provide us with further information on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u202	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 1587.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u203	This amendment is in fact aimed at transferring 25 million payment appropriations and commitment authorisations under the carbon compensation scheme for highly electro-intensive sites under Action 03 of Programme 134 to two other actions under this programme, Action 17 "Consumer economic protection" amounting to €6 million, and Action 20 "Business financing" for €19 million. As I said in my speech earlier on on behalf of our group, the credits for electro-intensive companies affected by carbon prices are a nonsense to the current climate issue and the need for an ecological transition. The debate on the broad economic guidelines, which you called for earlier, Minister, we can have on this amendment. This amendment highlights once again the contradiction between free trade, competitiveness and ecological transition. In addition, it would make it possible to reverse the decline in consumer protection appropriations and to support the ecological transition by financing French SMEs and ETIs invested in the ecological transition. In addition, this transfer will make it possible to move towards the creation of a public banking hub to meet the financing needs of companies and thus to pursue a credit policy based on social and ecological criteria. We will introduce another amendment concerning this public investment bank and the action it could take.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u205	Unfavorable opinion. As you know, Mr Prud'homme, the compensation scheme, which benefits electro-intensive companies exposed to international competition, aims to partially offset the cost of carbon, which is impacted by the European greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme. The scheme actually has three objectives: to avoid losing jobs – 80000 jobs in the national territory are directly affected; reduce the risk of carbon leakage, i.e. the relocation of these industrial activities outside the European Union; gradually accompany these companies towards a reduction in their energy consumption. It is therefore a question of intelligently accompanying the companies most exposed to the cost of carbon so as not to further exacerbate the deindustrialisation of our country and the resulting job losses too often. For all these reasons, in order to preserve employment and modernise our industry, we will give an unfavorable opinion to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u206	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 1513.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u207	The Minister has largely recalled the need to better support our SMEs, so that they can grow up to become ITEs. This growth, which requires very substantial support, requires a complete restructuring and reorganization of the company, in order to have adequate legal and commercial services for export, as well as enhanced language skills and marketing services. This amendment also provides for an additional EUR 25 million for this support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u209	The purpose of the amendment is unclear. Apparently, you want to increase the resources of SMEs and TPEs by plentiful action 20 of programme 134, dedicated to the financing of BPI France under the actions it carries out for the benefit of these companies. However, since this summer, many actions have been carried out in favour of SMEs and TPEs, including in the PLF and PLFSS, as we pointed out, Olivia Grégoire and I, in our report. We are particularly vigilant about the cash flow of all our businesses, to which Action 20 relates. The PACTE bill – an action plan for business growth and transformation – that will be discussed in 2018 will solve many of their problems in this regard. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u211	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u212	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u213	Some time ago, we tabled amendments to help SMEs more. Noting that the IS rate would be maintained at 15% for enterprises with a turnover of not more than 7.63 million, within the limit of €38000 profit, we wanted to extend this preferential rate to include SMEs, i.e. enterprises with a turnover of not more than 50 million. You have rejected this initiative. This seems a pity to me, given the need to better support SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u214	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u215	This is an important subject. Mr Minister, you mentioned the German example, quite rightly this time, by pointing out the capacity of German industries to structure their sector in solidarity, in particular through the relations between major groups, their subcontractors and SMEs-PMI. It must be noted that in France, industries opt less for solidarity than for subordination – when they do not organise the asphyxiation of SME-PMI networks in subcontracting, for example by putting them in competition with each other, even if they are destructuring sectors and territories. Since you have quoted the added value of LVMH on the structuring of the glass industry, I will recall an example that I am developing in my report for opinion. When a bottle of perfume, for example of the brand Dior or Cacharel, made in the Bresle valley, is sold 100 euros, its cost of production for the bottle factory is only 1 euro. The cost of the perfume contained in this bottle does not exceed 1.5 euro. The rest represents the margins desired by the major groups, including LVMH, that you cited.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u216	What about the wages?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u217	The fact that margins are not properly redistributed undermines the entire SME-IMP network.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u218	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u219	I am thinking in particular of the moulders or decorators installed in the heart of the Bresle valley, where seventy-three companies and 13,000 jobs are concentrated. All suffer from the disruption and destructuring of the industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u220	On the identical amendments Nos 1237, 1238 and 1416, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We are dealing with these three identical amendments, Nos 1237, 1238 and 1416. Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor to support Amendment No. 1237.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u221	I recalled earlier the sometimes dizzying decline in funding allocated to FISAC, a fund which is extremely important to support the trade and crafts of the city centres and priority neighbourhoods. We are particularly solicited by the fuel distributors who, after having had to bring their tanks up to standard, are again on the breach. Indeed, it can be expected that the evolution of fuel consumption, given the convergence of gasoline and diesel prices, will require them to make new investments and changes that FISAC could accompany. The amendment aims to increase the appropriations for Action 02 by 7.5 million in commitment authorisations and 5 million in payment appropriations, taken on Action 01.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u222	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 1238.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u223	Mr Minister, you told us earlier that you were attached to rural areas and small towns, which we do not doubt, because you came from them. Like me, you probably went through them and you were sensitive to their devitalization. Many traders and artisans are putting the key to it, because of the difficulties they have faced since the 2008 crisis, as a result of the introduction of the RSI or the lack of dynamics in these territories. However, the local economy is essential. It creates a social link between people who feel more and more distant from the major cities. It also helps to boost the areas concerned and, to a certain extent, to create employment. The FISAC supports it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u224	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u225	I said earlier in the gallery: for years, its endowment has melted like snow in the sun. It fell by 12% between 2016 and 2017. The 2018 Finance Bill provides for a 7% decrease. Since 2012, the cumulative decrease will reach 63%. How far will we go? Do we not want to support the local economy anymore? We must send a strong message to France of the territories, which needs your attention. If you give a favourable opinion on these amendments, you would show that the comments you made earlier are not in vain, and that FISAC is very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u226	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1416.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u227	I have tabled the same amendment as my colleagues, because FISAC has proved its worth in our territories. We need significant support to maintain services and structures in rural areas. Local gas stations are an example of this. In my department of Orne, their usefulness is no longer to be demonstrated. In 1985, France had 33,000 traditional service stations. In 2016, the number had dropped to 5347. In 30 years, loss is significant: 124 stations closed between 2014 and 2015, and 320 in 2016. The needs of these stations are real: they must meet environmental standards, adapt to changing consumption, the deployment of renewable energy, the diversification of their activities and the clean-up of their sites. Today, there are 4200 stations that will have to make investments to maintain their operations. They provide an important service to the citizens of rural areas and contribute to the vitality of the city centres. There is a real expectation, a need, and we must send a strong message, especially to the elected representatives who are doing a great deal to maintain the vitality of the city centres and the central cities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u228	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u229	The issue was raised in an enlarged committee. It was discussed at length when the Committee on Finance then considered the rapporteur-general's amendment. We understand the usefulness of FISAC, but an increase of 7.5 million in commitment authorizations may not be necessary, in any case disproportionate. Between 2015 and 2016, all service station files were processed, and those that were to receive assistance received it. FISAC's policy on community-based commerce needs to be examined. We must ask ourselves how to preserve it. With an amendment that will be called for in a moment, an improvement will be proposed to move in that direction. But for the time being, I am expressing an opinion which is unfavourable to the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u231	The local trade must be accompanied. That is what all Members, regardless of their group, want. Everyone knows that in urban centres or small rural communes – as I have seen myself – they are facing increasingly intense competition. However, given our vision of France and French society, we want businesses to remain in the city centres and in the city centres. Over the years, we have decided to reduce the amount of FISAC, as we have drawn the consequences of the Court of Auditors' 2014 report, which regretted the complexity of the scheme and the excessive number of bounty effects it gave rise to. I understand the emotion generated by the reduction that we have undertaken. You are proposing to add EUR 5 million in payment appropriations, which I think is considerable. The Government will be open to more reasonable amendments, but I do not agree with them. One more word to answer the questions that have been put to me on the occasion of the previous amendments. I repeat that the Government has made an important choice by keeping the rate of IS at 15% for SMEs whose turnover does not exceed €7.5 million. This is already a real effort on our part. The decline in the IS will take effect as early as 2018, for the fraction of profits below €500,000. The measure will first concern SMEs, which shows that we have made a very clear choice in their favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u232	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u233	We all agree that small trade plays an important role in the dynamics of the city centres, particularly in terms of social ties. The situation is extremely difficult. Management issues related to the IHR were recalled, as well as competition from large distribution, often very close, which impoverished customers. However, there was no mention of e-commerce, whose competition is also violent. Finally, let us not forget the difficulties associated with the decline in consumer purchasing power, which is particularly noticeable in difficult territories. Perhaps a surface problem has not been reported as well. In the city centres, these are too small. As a result, transmissions can be difficult to manage, as turnover is sometimes related to the surface. Finally, small businesses are now facing new challenges, such as accessibility or security. I do not go back to the question of adaptation, since it often takes larger areas to increase turnover. Our colleague Dominique Potier wanted us to accompany the energy transition, to which large companies adapt more easily than the small business and craft sector. All these arguments show that we must not wait for more "reasonable" amendments to defend small business and small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u234	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u235	The issue of FISAC was discussed at length in committee. Contrary to some, I believe that this fund has been useful in combating the desertification of rural areas in a large number of places, against devitalisation, in particular of centres - towns and medium-sized towns, or even to deal with the current issue - with the installation of large areas on the periphery. I therefore do not share the argument of the boon effect to justify a disengagement of the State from these partnership arrangements, which I have seen as mayor, intelligence and efficiency. In addition, I would like to stress the warning issued by the Association of Rural Mayors of France concerning the gradual disintegration of the territorial grid of fuel distribution. In fact, in a large number of places, the motorist must drive between fifteen and thirty-eight minutes to find a gas station. I was, a few days ago, in Gaillefontaine, in the heart of the country of Bray. The region and the department have installed electric terminals in the villages, which is very good, but there are no gas stations there. For the people concerned, who have no choice but to use their car, this creates, you will easily understand, a form of humiliation on a daily basis and it causes a profound misunderstanding. I wanted to relay the debate in committee on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u236	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u237	I would also like to support FISAC. I note a certain contradiction between the speeches of compassion towards the rural world and the insistence with which we plan schemes which, however, commit only small sums of money, which are all negative signals. The example of the gas stations developed at the moment is indeed edifying: we have electric terminals but no more stations! For having been elected local and for having participated in the development of files that mobilised FISAC credits, I found that the procedures were particularly lengthy, uncertain and complicated, and that payment deadlines were often inadequate. I think we need to review all the circuits taken by FISAC. But, of course, let us preserve these few million euros, which are very little in terms of the volume of appropriations under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u239	I would like to add a question on a very interesting subject developed by the minister earlier: in the area of broadband, is a map of areas offering an alternative solution to satellite broadcasting being prepared?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u240	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u241	Mr Minister, Mr Special Rapporteur, you are telling us that our amendment would lead to an increase in FISAC. However, what is well-conceived is clearly stated, and our amendment is clear. We do not propose to increase FISAC, simply to maintain it at its current level. The economic situation in the Territories has not improved to the extent that it has been possible to reduce the appropriations for the Fund. Minister, you said you would be open to "reasonable" amendments. But what is the purpose of these so-called reasonable amendments? Lower FISAC less than the Government's proposal. What we are asking you is to keep it at its current level. We were told in committee that FISAC is inoperative, because its interventions are limited to powdering. But we do not respond to the sprinkle by a reduction in appropriations; This is done by improving the arrangements for the allocation of aid, by innovating on the preparation of the dossier, possibly on the dangling of the financing of projects. This is all the more true since the appropriations for this fund have been declining continuously for many years. We therefore reiterate our request: maintain the current level of FISAC, even if in the long run the procedure for the allocation of appropriations is reviewed. This is the subject of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u243	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u244	Minister, I also think FISAC is a useful tool – there are many of us on these benches who share this idea. We are going to consider amendments that will make things better. The question of service stations is indeed very difficult, because many of them have closed for reasons of standardization. We did not realize that, gradually, the stations had spaced apart. I have had the chance, as mayor and president of a community of communes, to be able to resettle one, which is also governed, which is a peculiarity – it works very well. But I recognize that because of the provisions on standardization – even if the deadlines for application had been delayed – many stations could not be reopened. On the other hand, the overall situation needs to be assessed. We cannot untie the question of FISAC from the reflection on how to maintain shops in rural areas, while, moreover, large distribution is developing and we see coming – one speaker mentioned earlier – through e-commerce, large platforms that will compete with both small businesses and large distribution. I also regret that, in the case of commercial surface facilities, the departmental clearance threshold has been raised from 400 to 1000 square metres, as this has enabled large-scale distribution to develop very widely at the borders of urban areas. Maybe we should review that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u246	We can always write about the FISAC and say that we want to set up businesses in rural areas, but if the large distribution continues to expand, we will have the tools but not the effective capacity to do so, for lack of economic viability. Finally, there is a clear perception of the effects that the revision of rental values in shops is producing. The downtown businesses will bear heavier tax burdens, while the large distribution will see its lighter. Perhaps one could have wondered about this, because these are heavy trends. Our FISAC tools will be powerless if we do not try to reverse these trends.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u247	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u248	I fully agree with Mr Fesneau on the effects of the upgrading of the rental bases of local shops. I have looked at the impact of this measure in the Jura department: even with a smoothing over ten years, we will be confronted with an inequity, a break in equality between the shops of the city centres and those of the periphery. It's a reality. Beyond this question, with regard to FISAC, Mr Minister, our colleague Julien Dive has set out the facts very well: you accept the decrease in his appropriations and, even if we vote on an amendment that adjusts them somewhat, they will remain in decline. However, we need an organisation that allows our small businesses, in the city centres, to receive a somewhat attractive and dynamic response, and that is not possible without FISAC: this is the reality. Many of you have taken the example of gas stations. For my part, I would like to talk to you about press tobacco, the number of which has decreased by 6500 in ten years. Either we accept the idea that tomorrow there is no more, or we use an armed arm – in this case, FISAC – to bring a technicality, answers, an organization. Minister, I insist that our rural territories need a FISAC with sufficient funds to deal with the very unfair competition of another form of trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u249	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u250	I fully associate myself with what Mr Fesneau has said. FISAC is an important fund, but there is also a question of what can be done by intercommunities. Indeed, FISAC cannot do everything. There is a real territorial strategy to be pursued. Fortunately, local elected officials are mobilizing in this direction. The land question is underlying: elected officials decide to create real estate to renew the real estate of their city centre and make it attractive to traders. Others decide to reduce the tax burden on these businesses in order to facilitate their establishment, or to set up aid schemes focused, for example, on trade and independent crafts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u251	It's not incompatible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u252	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Everyone is responsible, starting with local elected officials, who decide to value downtown trade or the periphery, where large areas are located. This balance is defined in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u253	It's complementary!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u254	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u255	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The Group of the Republic on the move fully shares these concerns. That is why we will support Amendment No 1868 by our rapporteur-general, which will make it possible to move forward on these issues in a fiscally responsible manner, supporting what has been said. FISAC can, in fact, be a complementary tool to a number of local political actions carried out by elected officials who wish to revitalize their city centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u256	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u257	I would like to respond to the comments made by our colleagues. It is indeed necessary for local elected officials to take up these dossiers, which is the case. The initiatives are indeed starting from the ground: local elected officials are the ones who set up the dossiers, give them concrete translation and create a dynamic. Nevertheless, the elected representatives must be supported financially, because once the project has been set up, the technical means brought together, all the parties mobilized on a dossier – which is the right way to make a project live – still have the question of financing. That's when we need support. If the case is not supported financially – notably through FISAC – local elected officials cannot carry it out. That is the subject of the amendments before you. Please note that the rapporteur-general's forthcoming amendment only raises the expected level of appropriations by EUR 2 million, which will result in a very significant decrease in FISAC, which is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u258	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u259	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u260	Let me remind you that we are pursuing a strategic objective: the reduction of public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u261	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u262	As soon as we propose to reduce such appropriations, this immediately leads to the lifting of shields. I'm sorry, but we have to cut public spending in one way or another. With regard to FISAC, I am prepared to make an effort, to look at how to improve our proposal. Julien Dive said that we would continue to reduce FISAC's appropriations, just a little less than expected in the trajectory: yes, and I assume that we are making the necessary reductions in public spending, when it is possible to do better. My conception of FISAC is not to continue to feed every possible and imaginable project; I think it is important to focus on calls for projects and complementarity – very well described by President Fesneau – with the action of intercommunalities. FISAC is one of many tools but it is not the miracle solution for shops in the city centres, otherwise it would be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u263	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u264	[["We didn't say that! » on the benches of the LR group]] I would add that in the area of commercial development, tax measures are far more powerful than public funds to assist with settlement. I also believe that training is a key factor in downtown commerce. For example, when you want to set up a charcutier in the centre of town, in the centre of town or in rural areas, the first difficulty is to find a young person who wants to make it his profession. Yet it is a formidable profession, an activity to which everyone is very attached; We all like to have a charcutier in its center of town or rural commune, which comes to bring you its products. But, in many communes in my constituency, the first problem is that we do not find a young person willing to return to business, because he does not have the training and finds it too difficult. Let us tackle all the problems, but let us stop making the French believe that it is by massively increasing FISAC that we will allow the development of shops in the city centre, because we need a global strategy. I do not claim that you said that: we share the same objective, namely to keep downtown shops, but I think, for my part, that we must have a comprehensive approach. I am prepared to make an effort to soften the slope of the FISAC credit reduction, but I believe that it is a more comprehensive strategy that will yield results.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u265	Thank you, Minister. As you said, this is an important subject on which many speakers have inscribed themselves. Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u266	FISAC has proven its worth. It is an ancient tool, which was not mounted by fashion effect. It accompanies many other devices, no one thinking that downtown trade or towns can be supported only by FISAC credits. Nevertheless, the latter are extremely strong accompaniment. Either it is useless and it must be removed, or it is useful, which is my opinion, as all those who have a local experience, and it must at least be maintained. We do not ask you to increase it, but to maintain it. You're telling us we need to save money somewhere. No doubt, and it is necessary to do so in many areas through structural reforms – you are expected, on this subject, to make many proposals. The level of FISAC has no impact on the country's budgetary balance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u267	Small streams make big rivers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u268	...but its symbol is very important. Minister, you have the right, from time to time, to consider the opposition amendments to be meaningful and to give them a favourable opinion apart from those who propose reports.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u269	I did it with Mrs Louwagie's amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u270	I'll drop some more, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u271	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We are proposing a credit amendment, which is therefore financially balanced: we are asking to add EUR 5 million to FISAC, but to remove the same amount elsewhere. There can be no such lockdown on the amendments tabled by the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u272	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1237, 1238 and 1416.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u273	We'll let the small traders know, they'll be happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u274	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1547, 1552 and 1389, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1547 and 1552 are identical. Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1547.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u275	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u276	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor to support Amendment No. 1552.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u277	The purpose of this amendment is to increase the appropriations for the economic protection of consumers provided for in Action 17 of programme 134 "Business development and regulation". Indeed, Action 17 involves intervention expenditure in favour of the Institut national de la consommation – INC –, 15 consumer associations, the Centre européen des consommateurs France – CEC France – and the Centre de recherche pour l'étude et l'observation des conditions de vie – CREDOC. These intervention appropriations, managed by the Directorate-General for Consumer, Competition and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – amounted to EUR 8.9 million in the initial finance law for 2017 and amounted to only EUR 5.4 million in the PLF for 2018. This reduction in appropriations seems to us to be detrimental to the existence of the specialised press and consumer associations. For example, the 15 approved national associations, which sit on the National Consumer Council – CNC – have already seen a 2.1% decrease in their subsidy in 2016 and 8.35 % in 2017, reaching just over €3 million. However, this movement plays an essential role in informing, educating and accompaniing consumers in the country. It produces, particularly for the most vulnerable populations, a set of studies, analyses and audiovisual programmes. In recent years, the movement has been able to rationalize most of its costs, while maintaining quality, independent and useful information for all. Because public funding remains the guarantors of the independence of this movement vis-à-vis the players in the economic world, it is therefore proposed to reduce the reduction of the intervention appropriations from 40% to 5%, by increasing the appropriations for Action 17 of the programme 134 by EUR 3100000. These credits are transferred from Action 1 of Programme 305 "Economic and Fiscal Strategy".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u278	Mrs Gregoire, you have the floor to introduce Amendment No 1389 from the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u279	It's falling, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u280	I imagine the committee's opinion is in favour of these two identical amendments, Madam Special Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u281	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u282	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u283	I had the opportunity, Madam President, to speak to the Government yesterday on this subject of consumer associations. The latter are essential for the proper information of the consumer, since they enable him to make informed and independent choices. I think we are all committed to consumer protection here. A report by the Court of Auditors at the end of 2016 explains that these associations are still too numerous and too fragmented. If they want to be useful to consumers, they can make a grouping effort, to which I call them. This grouping would serve as a better information for the consumer. In total, they must be able to continue to do their work in good conditions. The initial decision of the Government was difficult. I confirm that we are ready to make this financial effort for the good information of the French consumer and to increase the appropriations allocated to these consumer associations by EUR 3100000. We therefore support the adoption of the amendment tabled by Mrs Olivia Grégoire.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u284	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u285	I would like us to speak also in this debate of concrete content which concerns the French, because we sometimes have ethereal budgetary discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u286	That's not nice for your colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u287	On the CNI website, you will see that the latest published files concern medical prescriptions for seniors or make recommendations to heat your home more efficiently, better buy on the internet, rent your vehicle between individuals or facilitate the organization of a real estate diagnosis. 400,000 copies of 60 million consumers are distributed in France, this magazine offering practical advice that accompanies the French in their daily lives and, important for us, in certain transitions related to public policies, including the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u288	You'll be in the next issue!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u289	These movements bring content, and the fifteen associations represent, inform and defend the French – I am thinking for example of the National Union of Family Associations. With our group, we have chosen to reduce their appropriations by only 5%, not 40%, because we believe that it is essential to protect the means given to those who inform the French independently, at a time when some debates exceed them. We must therefore be committed to defending the French in their daily lives and not to focusing solely on budget lines that lose some of their meaning. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] We therefore support the adoption of these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u290	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u291	It's better than if it were worse! A 5 per cent decrease in appropriations is preferable to a 40 per cent decrease, as some associations would have been strangled financially. However, I would like to understand the logic of this 5% decrease. Why are these appropriations not stabilized or even increased? There have been several scandals in the recent past – such as Levothyrox and Dépakine medicines or fipronil-contaminated eggs – so that, in the face of a concentrated industrial system, complicated to understand for people and in the face of increasingly powerful multinationals, it is useful to benefit from associations that are whistleblowers. It is a democratic guarantee and the proper functioning of the market economy. I do not see why we are reducing appropriations by 5% instead of increasing them. In your answer yesterday, Minister, you seemed to say that a sorting would be carried out in the associations. Associations have just been cited, such as What to choose? and the CNI, but there are others like the National Federation of Transport User Associations – I regularly take the train, and this federation is very useful because there are many problems. There are also tenant defence associations, which sound alarmed against the government's policy of declining endowments to low-cost housing offices – HLM. I wouldn't want this drop in credits to be an opportunity to sort between the good guys and the bad guys.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u292	But that is the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u293	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u294	You are not very comfortable, minister, hearing the words of Mrs. de Montchalin. It is trying to show the concrete nature of these appropriations, as if the other budgets were not concrete! If we listed the operations carried out by FISAC, all the mayors would stress their interest. Of course, there is a general interest in making the quality of consumption in France even more transparent, but there is no consistency in your position, despite your attempt to prove otherwise. You simply decided that it was important to make an effort for consumer associations because they make a little noise, unlike FISAC, which makes less noise. We're in the very old political world, minister, I'm sorry to disappoint you. We see that when there is no money, there is still money. If the President of the Republic or the Government so wishes, it is possible to find €3 million quickly. As with the debate on FISAC, we are not talking about tens of millions or billions of euros. Of which act.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u295	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u296	Mr Woerth, you are a free spirit and you love the independence of the press and thought, just like us. It is opportune that a state does not completely subsidize a media and let it inform consumers independently of the quality of the products or on important issues raised by our colleagues, such as drug controversies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u297	We're not calling this into question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u298	Of course, but the financial independence of these media and associations can only improve public information. It is important that the State be present alongside these associations, but they also have their own revenues and can continue to inform our citizens as freely as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u299	On the identical amendments Nos 1547 and 1552, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Olivia Gregoire, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u300	I thank the Government for its response. I would also like to make it clear to Mr Ruffin that Christmas is soon, but not immediately. I therefore welcome the reduction in appropriations to 5%, instead of 40%, but there is no question of increasing expenditure within a framework of control of public expenditure, honourable Member, even though I know that you have little interest in this requirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u301	We're not children! Talk to us like adults!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u302	I'm not talking to you like a child, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u303	This condescending tone is very unpleasant!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u304	It is not Christmas, so we are not in favour of an increase in public spending. We will pay special attention to...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u305	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] You're a polemic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u306	Not at all, Mr. Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u307	Mr Corbière, only the Special Rapporteur has the floor. Please proceed, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u308	I just wanted to say that associations are of all kinds, and in that you are right. I also understand that the Government has a special perspective on the subject. It's not just the CNI: you talked about tenants, but I could also mention Rural Families and Families of France, and many other family associations. If the decline is reduced in this context, it is also to ensure that all consumer associations, especially the least visible and the smallest, can continue to live.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u309	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u310	The budgetary argument cannot always be heard, especially for sums as derisory as those at stake here. It is about 1 or 2 million euros, when for flat tax you plan amounts 1000 times, 1500 times higher!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u311	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u312	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The budgetary argument serves you when you want to impose measures in the direction of your political ideology, in the sense of a certain dogmatism. You take it out on the HLM offices, but not on a whole bunch of other topics. The choice to reduce credits for consumer associations cannot be read differently than symbolically, as a desire to reduce their warning role.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u314	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u315	I would like to point out that our questions and questions are absolutely not intended to question the merits of these associations, which we readily acknowledge are doing an in-depth work on the various economic distortions or realities that our fellow citizens may encounter. However, despite a constrained budgetary context – as the minister keeps reminding us, and we can hear him well – we are surprised that you can find money for some vocations and not for others, as we have seen for FISAC a few moments ago. And we ask you not to find new appropriations, Madame de Montchalin, but to reorient existing appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u316	Politics is making choices!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u317	That consumer associations should see their budgets strengthened, is perfectly fitting for us, but we do not understand that structures such as FISAC, which are really destined for rural areas, are being undermined.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u318	All right! There's double standards!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u319	To conclude this discussion, let us speak to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u320	I have been asking for the floor for ten minutes, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u321	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and LC groups]] First of all, I would like to say to Mr Ruffin that there is no derisory sum when it comes to French money. Then, in response to President Woerth, I will remind you of the figures. I told you that I was ready to make an effort on FISAC to stabilize its resources. On the other hand, as far as consumer associations are concerned, we have planned a 40% reduction in their subsidies, which will be reduced to 5% by the amendment tabled by Mrs Olivia Gregoire. This is the truth: the FISAC budget will be stabilized, with a decrease in commitment authorities and a more favourable situation in payment appropriations. With regard to consumer associations, we take into account the comments made to us; It is also in the interest of the budgetary debate to allow a dialogue to improve the text. The decrease will therefore be only 5 per cent instead of 40 per cent. So don't say we can't find for FISAC what we can find for consumer associations, because that's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u322	That's quite right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u323	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u324	[[Smile]] I will be brief, because according to the phrase, "flavoured belly has no ears. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u325	That's right! That's the best remark of the morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u326	Credit from consumer associations has declined by 30% over the past five years, and this amendment is intended to reduce the expected decrease in 2018. However, it is important to put the place of these associations at the centre of the discussion, as they have the role of monitoring policies implemented at the national level, they allow us to know whether they work or not, and they are the relay of what people live on a day-to-day basis. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] On the other hand, I do not agree at all with the Minister when he relies on the Court of Auditors to say that there are too many consumer associations. We need this diversity, it is healthy that different thoughts can be expressed in associative life. I therefore do not share the views of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u327	Mr Franck Riester has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u328	I would just like to acknowledge the quality of the minister's listening regarding and the FISAC, and the consumer associations. The latter are of general interest, and the identical amendments by Mrs Gregoire and her colleagues to reduce the reduction in their subsidies are very satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u329	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1547 and 1552.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u330	Who voted against it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u331	Who got the wrong button?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u332	There's going to be a correction to the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u333	I call Mr Buon Tan, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 1147.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u334	This amendment tends to maintain the budget of Business France. I have heard what the Minister has said, and I am pleased that we share the findings of the work to be done to improve our external trade. I tabled this amendment at the expense of others in order to respond to an emergency: during the months necessary to study and implement new solutions, Business France must be able to carry out its projects to improve the situation, in particular by working with the chambers of commerce and industry – CCI –, the regional economic services – SER – and other layers of the mill-leaf. This seems necessary above all because it is virtuous: every euro spent in foreign trade brings 5 to 70 euros of export billing. The budget will therefore be balanced at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u335	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u336	The Special Rapporteur on external trade, Nicolas Forissier, who had to leave the Chamber, was personally in favour of this amendment. The issue of the internationalization of our companies is a key issue. Olivia Gregoire and I have, of course, addressed it in our special report. As such, the audit by Business France on the relevance of the actors will provide us with an indispensable insight into the subject. With regard to your amendment, dear colleague, know that the competitiveness and attractiveness of French companies are at the heart of the Government's economic policy. That is why the PACTE bill – an action plan for business growth and transformation – is currently being prepared and will include a section on this theme and proposals for structural reforms. As the finance bill is not the right vehicle to carry out these reforms, and the Government has already dealt with the matter, we ask you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u337	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u338	I also suggest that Mr Tan withdraw his amendment. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable. We are ready to improve export aid schemes, to restructure them, to simplify them, but it would be a bad policy to increase appropriations before presenting proposals for simplification. You yourself have many, and they go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u339	Would you like to maintain your amendment, Mr Tan?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u340	No, I'm taking it off, Madam President. I hear the minister's speech well, and I trust him. We will work together to move things forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u341	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 1868.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u342	The aim of this amendment is to abound FISAC's appropriations of EUR 2 million. This proposal seems to me to be a good compromise. This is a significant increase, from EUR 11.03 million to EUR 13.03 million in payment appropriations. [[Smile]] I had tabled a slightly more ambitious amendment in committee; I have been asked to look carefully at the subject of gas stations and their modernization, an important subject of concern to all of us. The sum of EUR 2 million makes it possible to deal with the stock of files remaining on this issue. I would remind you that an exceptional support package had been put in place in 2016 and 2017. It is now about working on the remaining stock, not gasoline, but stations still facing this issue. This amendment is also in the direction of greater budgetary sincerity, a principle to which our Government is committed. While FISAC's trajectory had been set at €22 million for the period 2012-2018, we are already at €32 million. By recording this increase, we are therefore moving closer to budgetary sincerity. Finally, I would like to point out that the €2 million is from the 305 "Economic and Fiscal Strategy" programme, which is increasing by €4 million. The proposed puncture will therefore not endanger the future of this strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u343	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u344	The aim of this amendment by the rapporteur-general is to increase FISAC's capacity to reduce its caseload by EUR 2 million. On this issue, a Government opinion on the consumption of credits during the year would enable an informed decision to be taken. Pending this opinion, and in order to allow the House to vote freely on the subject, my colleague Xavier Roseren and I will give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u345	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u346	What is promised is something due: in response to all the inquiries, particularly that of MP Dive, we said we were ready to make an effort on FISAC. I welcome the reasonableness of the effort requested by the rapporteur-general. The opinion is therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u347	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u348	I hope you do not imply that it is unreasonable for us to support the economic and artisanal activities of our rural territories, Minister. We will vote for your amendment, Mr rapporteur-general, not to please you, but to accompany those involved in the local economy. Our proposal would have been able to accompany a greater diversity of activities, because it was much wider, but by supporting your amendment, we are consistent because it is in the same spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u349	Mr Vincent Rolland, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u350	We will indeed vote for this amendment. As they say, it's better than nothing! However, what are the Government's intentions regarding FISAC? When asked in an enlarged committee, the minister suggested that it would be reviewed, which was one of the reasons for the decrease in the appropriations allocated to him. Of course, it is not fully operational. Its functioning as well as the definition of its beneficiaries may need to be improved. However, it is not desirable to reduce the appropriations allocated to it. Joël Giraud's proposal is in the right direction. Nevertheless, over four or five years, the reduction in its appropriations is dizzying, I regret to have to say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u351	[[Smile]] And vertigo in Savoy is dangerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u352	Our shops and handicrafts in the town-centres must really benefit from strong support in the fight against the decline of the peripheral areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u353	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1032.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u354	The appropriations for tourism are allocated between two missions. The most important was the mission "External action of the State" and the rest was the mission "Economy". Within the latter, the intervention appropriations allocated to tourism, which amounted to 1.8 million euros in the draft finance law for 2017, are mainly used to deploy the "Quality Tourism" brand on the national territory and to accompany the territories, in particular the rural territories, in structuring new tourist offers, but also – and I will insist on this – to develop social policies, thanks to the financing, up to 370,000 euros in the draft finance law for 2017, of the arrangements for the start-up on holiday of the most modest public. However, this funding, which takes the form of intervention appropriations from the Directorate-General for Enterprise – DGE – is simply removed in the 2018 finance bill. In other words, the CEO no longer has any means to achieve the objective mentioned in the annual performance project – PAP – related to the "Economy" mission of "structuring the tourism offer" and "facilitating the departure on holiday of all audiences, including the disabled, the elderly and the disadvantaged". My amendment therefore proposes to reallocate EUR 1.2 million to the DGE in order to meet this political objective. By proposing 40% less appropriations than the very modest ones voted last year, we take into account the need to control public expenditure. We are all committed to assisting the most vulnerable people on holiday, as well as to maintaining the funds devoted to structuring the tourist supply in rural areas. I note that it has not been very difficult to increase in public sitting the amount of credits to support consumer associations. We should therefore be able, together, to make the increase in appropriations that I propose, which is only EUR 1.2 million out of a total budget of EUR 1.6 billion for the "Economy" mission! I therefore ask you very sincerely, Minister, to accept this amendment on behalf of the Government. It is a very modest budget but has an extraordinarily strong leverage effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u355	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u356	I am convinced that the removal of the funds allocated to these aid schemes is a profound mistake that you do not wish to commit, if I rely on the objectives you have set yourself in terms of tourism development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u357	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u358	Very good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u359	Ladies and gentlemen, eighteen amendments remain under discussion. It would be desirable for us to complete the examination of the appropriations for the "Economy" mission before the adjournment of the sitting, which implies that everyone has strict discipline in speaking time and that we limit the number of speeches on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u360	This one's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u361	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 1032?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u362	Your amendment does not take into account the efforts made by the State in favour of tourism, Mrs Bonnivard, which is estimated at almost EUR 2 billion in budget appropriations allocated between 20 programmes and 13 missions. However, we are well aware of the problem you raise with regard to social tourism. Elected myself from a territory located at the foot of Mont-Blanc, I am very sensitive to it. We have been informed of this before the examination of this mission in committee enlarged by our colleague Sandrine Mörch. However, the increase in appropriations you are proposing is disproportionate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u363	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u364	We will give a favourable opinion to the Government's amendment No. 1907, which we will examine shortly and which is also intended to increase the appropriations allocated to the associations concerned by EUR 140000.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u365	140,000 euros? That's not reasonable, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u366	With this in mind, we are suggesting that your amendment be withdrawn in favour of Amendment No 1907 and that, in the absence of such an opinion, an unfavourable opinion be issued, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u367	Make an effort, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u368	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u369	This amendment raises two distinct problems, as the Special Rapporteur has explained perfectly. As far as tourism development aid is concerned, under programme 134, I believe that we have taken the necessary steps. The Government has formulated a strategy for the development of tourism and I do not think it is necessary to increase the funding for this programme. You are also raising another very important problem, Mrs Bonnivard: the funding of associations working for the holiday leave of the less well-off families thanks to the leisure and holiday support schemes. On this point, I readily accept that additional subsidies are needed. You are right to recall that, as Mrs Mörch will probably recall earlier. However, the amount required is not EUR 1.2 million but EUR 140000. I therefore suggest that you withdraw your amendment and make the commitment that we will abound by EUR 140000 the funds specifically earmarked for associations working for the access of the less well-off families to leisure and holidays. Otherwise, the Government's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u370	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u371	[[Smile]] A member of the majority elected in the Seine-Maritime recently argued that some unemployed people are going on vacation in the Bahamas. He apologized after he became aware of making a mistake. Indeed, in territories where the crisis is not virtual, the right to holidays is not a reality. That is why Michèle Demessine, when she was Secretary of State in charge of tourism, created a useful mechanism for the modest populations: the National Association of Holiday Cheques – ANCV – which allows vulnerable populations, especially the elderly, to go on holiday. I therefore support this amendment, which aims to ensure, through the provision of financial support, that the right to a holiday, not in the Bahamas – because this is a view of the spirit – but in camping, in a simple setting, is a reality for people who are now deprived of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u372	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u373	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u374	I maintain my amendment. Mr Minister, let me point out to you that you have removed the budget line for these aid schemes. Therefore, no additional abundance is possible. Mr Special Rapporteur, the budgetary effort of almost EUR 2 billion made by the nation for tourism, detailed in the relevant cross-cutting policy document, also includes the appropriations allocated to the financing of the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps – ICHN. In terms of valuing the national budget devoted to tourism, perhaps a little more honesty is needed. Having noted that the cross-cutting policy document on tourism includes funding for wolf protection measures, I wonder about its honesty and the reality of the amount of almost EUR 2 billion you are talking about. Secondly, the appropriations allocated to holiday start-up schemes increase from EUR 370000 to EUR 170000. The budget for measures to structure tourism supply in rural areas is also falling. I welcomed the Government's efforts to support the tourism budget as part of the "External Action of the State" mission. However, the fact that the "Economy" mission devotes almost nothing to the tourism sector, in particular to the development of the "Tourism Quality" brand and the tourism offer in rural areas, seems to me to be a very bad signal. The appropriations of EUR 170000 for national holiday start-up schemes, which previously amounted to EUR 370000, are obviously insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u375	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 1322.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u376	The aim is to reduce the appropriations for Action 01 of the programme by EUR 305 million. It includes a €1.2 million component entitled "Participation in the financing of research organisations in economics and finance", which should be part of the "Research and higher education" mission. Moreover, the economic utility of this allocation for the French economy seems to us to be questionable. Indeed, it is essentially attributed to the European think tank Bruegel. Based in Brussels, it devotes all its publications to the exploitation of the economic and social model imposed by the European Union, of which it brings together many Member States. We believe that French money could be used differently. In return, we propose to allocate an additional EUR 1 million in payment appropriations to programme 343 entitled "France Very Broadband Plan". On this topical subject, can you inform us, Mr. Minister, about the situation of the SFR company with regard to the plan "France Très haute débit" and that of the company Altice chaired by Mr. Drahi, in particular about the amount of its consolidated net assets?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u377	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u378	The think tank Bruegel you mentioned, dear colleague, is an independent research and study centre specializing in public policy economics. It brings together representatives of several Member States of the European Union, companies and institutions in a high-quality construction and information approach to European economic issues. It contributes to the dissemination of data and to the production of studies essential for the development and strengthening of economic policies at European level, at the heart of which France is and will continue to be a member. We will therefore continue to contribute to the essential funding of think tanks in which our voice can and must be heard. On the other hand, the 343 program you are proposing to carry over credits already benefits from significant allocations and does not require that we still abound it. The committee therefore delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u379	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u380	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u381	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u382	I asked you about Altice's situation, of which 45% of the shareholders were visibly scolded, minister. You were defending consumers just now, you can assume that you will also defend savers! Can you provide any answers on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u383	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u384	I will have the opportunity to reply to you on this subject, honourable Member. For the time being, I would prefer that we focus on reviewing the appropriations for the "Economy" mission. I will gladly reply to you on this important subject at another point in the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u385	I'm taking date!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u386	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to support Amendment No. 1013.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u387	This amendment, proposed by Sandrine Mörch, several of our colleagues and myself, proposes to abound by 500,000 euros the appropriations allocated to Action 22 of Programme 134, which allow the DGE to subsidise certain associations working on access to holidays for all and of which everyone knows the importance. Indeed, they fight against social exclusion and allow thousands of people, especially children, to access leisure and travel and, in doing so, to extract themselves from the difficulties of their daily lives. Some of the funds proposed for this purpose appear to have been transferred this year to programme 159, "Expertise, Geographic Information and Meteorology". The signatories of this amendment wish to ensure that the subsidies concerned will be maintained despite the overall transfer of funds to support the social and solidarity economy. We therefore propose that the appropriations for Action 22 of Programme 134 should be increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u388	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u389	As I mentioned in the discussion of Amendment No 1032, we are sensitive to the problems of social tourism. However, we cannot give an opinion in favour of this amendment because it contains an error. Indeed, it aims at Action 22 entitled "Social and Solidarity Economy" whose credits are transferred this year to the programme 159 of the "Solidaritys" mission. I therefore propose, dear colleague, that you withdraw your amendment in favour of the following amendment proposed by the Government, which is also intended to increase the appropriations allocated to assistance schemes starting on holiday, to the amount of EUR 140000, and issue an unfavorable opinion in the absence of such an opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u390	The decrease continues!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u391	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u392	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u393	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u394	In view of this numerical proposal, I withdraw the amendment and welcome the fact that our appeal has been heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u395	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1907.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u396	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u397	I have before me a series of amendments to the Additional Rule after Rule 54. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1374, second rectification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u398	The aim of this amendment is to establish a voluntary contribution mechanism allowing the financing of projects of common interest for the Autorité des marchés financiers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u399	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 1359, 1151 and 1550. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 1359, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 1880.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u400	The aim is to ensure the sustainability of the Paper Technology Centre, the CTP, which is working towards a future for our country, that of paper to be recycled. The aim of this amendment is to introduce a tax which would be affected by it. As I said during the debate in committee, I would like it to be capped. The Government preceded me by tabling a sub-amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u401	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 1151.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u402	In the same spirit, the Committee on Economic Affairs wanted to attest to the usefulness of industry's technical advice, particularly for the pulp, paper, cardboard and cellulose sector, stressing the innovative nature of the CTP. Since the appropriations have been raised for reasons beyond my control, we propose to finance the CTP with this affected tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u403	I call Mr Damien Adam to support Amendment No. 1550.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u404	The Republic Group is proposing an identical amendment, so that the CTP can continue to offer its services to TPEs and SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u405	The Minister has the floor to support Subamendment No. 1880 to Amendment No. 1359.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u406	The purpose of this sub-amendment is to cap the amount of this affected fee. Subject to the adoption of this sub-amendment, the opinion on the identical amendments is favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u407	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments and on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u408	The CTP is one of the only technical centres that did not yet have an affected tax. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u409	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u410	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1387.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u411	The purpose of this amendment is to prohibit banks from over-centralizing defacilitated savings books with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations – CDC. Maintaining the option of overcentralising Book A would pose a high budgetary risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u412	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u413	I regret that this amendment was not discussed by the Finance Committee at the end of the enlarged committee. Given both the systemic risk that has been identified in the event of over-centralisation for the CDC savings fund and the positive effect that the ban on this over-centralisation could have on SMEs, I am expressing a favourable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u414	I call Mr Buon Tan, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 1137 of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u415	The purpose of this amendment is to request a report from the Government on the financing of Business France. To compensate for the decline in the public subsidy, Business France has been forced to charge its services more and more. Its own resources have increased by 27 % in three years and now cover its expenses by 49,6 %. As a result, twice as many companies use export insurance. Moreover, Business France is in competition with private company support companies. This report could provide a very useful assessment of the funding and use of these funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u416	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u417	An audit mission in Business France is currently examining the desirability of rationalising the distribution of competences among the various actors. However, the committee supports this amendment, as the proposed report would provide a broader and more objective view of the public financing of Business France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u418	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u419	I suggest that this amendment be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable. An audit is under way. In addition, the bill that will be introduced next year will make it possible to improve the functioning of Business France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u420	I call Mr Buon Tan, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u421	The requested report would provide further details on the matter. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u422	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 1379.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u423	A study by the National Union of Family Associations and the magazine 60 million consumers revealed unfair banking practices, particularly for the most modest households. This study shows that a bank charges an average of EUR 34 per year for payment incidents across its customers. This amount can reach 296 euros for the most difficult customers. This situation generally benefits large banks and the social cost is significant. We therefore call for an information report on the fight against over-indebtedness and excessive bank charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u424	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 1380.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u425	This time it is a report on a subject that concerns us all, that of tax evasion. This represents 80 billion euros a year of lost revenue for the state budget, or 20% of the budget. This loss of profits reduces our ability to finance ambitious policies and defend public services. The report would assess the means to be identified, including the number of agents to be recruited in the tax administration, and the mechanisms to be put in place to reduce tax fraud by EUR 40 billion per year. It could also be an opportunity to evaluate some of the proposals that we have put into the debate: an obligation for companies to report their results country by country; creation of a universal tax by subjecting every French citizen to French taxes, regardless of his or her country of residence; prohibition for French banks of any activity in tax havens; withdrawal of bank licences from recalcitrant institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u426	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u427	You're right, we're all concerned about this problem. That is why this government has made tax evasion a priority of the legislature. Minister Gérald Darmanin announced that the staff of the Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFiP – would be strengthened. But the report you are asking for already exists: a cross-cutting policy document entitled "Combating tax evasion and fraud" is appended to the finance bill, following the adoption of an amendment, tabled by Émilie Cariou and our eminent rapporteur general, to the bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for 2016. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u428	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u429	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u430	Mr Corbière, do you maintain this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u431	I'm holding it. The cross-cutting policy document does not answer all of our questions, in the same way that the anticipated increase in the number of officers does not meet staff needs. We're asking for specific things. I repeat, we prefer to vote in conscience rather than in cadence!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u432	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1381.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u433	Errare humanum is, perseverare diabolicum... We continue, because hope makes live. France strategy has issued a report on the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE. This report shows the failure of this scheme, which would have created between 15,000 and 200,000 jobs. The cost per job created ranges from €100,000 to €200,000 per year, or €20000 per month and per job! It's quite a considerable amount of money. This CICE, which represents three times the budget of justice, is a real failure. Although the budget is increasing in this budget proposal, the Government is moving towards abolishing it. In any case, it would be good to take stock of such a gabegie. Moreover, I repeat, I do not see the usefulness of giving aid to large-scale distribution, which is in competition with itself, in the same territories. Rather than pouring out €20 billion in 2018, aid should be targeted at SMEs, internationally competitive companies and strategic guidelines.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u434	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u435	You said, "Sed perseverare diabolicum!" The CICE Follow-up Committee's annual report, published in October, states, after solid econometric studies, that the CICE would have created or safeguarded 10,000 to 200,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u436	It's a lot of work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u437	A supplementary report does not seem relevant to us. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u438	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1384 and 1515, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1384.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u439	The European Union prohibits any tax harmonisation and effectively promotes tax competition between Member States. For example, multinationals domicile their activities in the states where taxation is the most welcoming and take advantage of intra-European tax dumping to repatriate their profits. This pushes each state to further reduce its tax rates to the detriment of the general interest. In 2015, a report by the Committee on European Affairs estimated the losses for the French State at around EUR 15 billion. According to the two rapporteurs, the phenomenon represents between 2 and 3 % of the national GDP, i.e. for France 40 to 60 billion euros which could be taxed. They noted that the phenomenon is growing with the expansion of Silicon Valley giants, specialists in tax optimization. We remember the LuxLeaks scandal, which revealed in 2014 the extent and seniority of the practices, with Luxembourg for example with the so-called tailor-made agreements. According to the Guardian's revelations, the former Prime Minister of that country, today President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, has blocked the European Union's initiatives on tax evasion. We are therefore asking for a report that sets out a new state of affairs on this issue, since no update has been carried out in the last two years, whereas the phenomenon, as we know, has become even more widespread. The report would also monitor the implementation of the measures announced in the fight against fraud and tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u440	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 1515.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u441	[[Smile]] Unfortunately, consideration of this amendment comes at a time when the hollow stomachs have no ear. With nearly 25,000 billion euros housed in tax havens, they are tens of billions of tax shortfalls each year for France, Europe and the world's citizens. The fight against tax evasion and financial opacity requires structural reforms. This is a major political challenge of our time. The challenge is to combat the weakening of public power, unfair competition and a civic collapse. The experience of the law of separation and regulation of banking activities and of the Sapin 2 law in particular, has highlighted the limits specific to the European Union, but also those linked to our Constitution in the name of freedom to undertake, a concept of the eighteenth century that should be redefined for the present time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u442	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u443	Your request for a report on tax dumping within the European Union does not seem appropriate to me, because the Union is now engaged in the fight against tax competition. A number of proposals are already on the table, in particular corporate tax directives. In addition, the Minister has undertaken to harmonize the taxation of GAFA companies, and the Government promises results within two years. It will then be largely time to report. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u444	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u445	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u446	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u447	On the contrary, I believe that this request is timely. The revelation of the latest scandals, in recent weeks, and of Paradise papers in particular, has ended shocking our fellow citizens and calls on us to act urgently, especially since promises and declarations of intent have increased for years without results. A previous president even went so far as to say that everything was settled, that there was no tax haven around France and that such scandals would no longer be repeated! All these statements, we have already heard them, but in fact nothing has changed and the revelations of the press prove that these methods continue. That is why we are again raising this problem, with particular emphasis on the fact that there is no tax harmonisation at European level. We are all here, normally, in favour of the European project. This kind of practice is detrimental to the construction of Europe and could encourage the European disengagement of our citizens. If we were consistent, we would start this work today to take stock of it in two years' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u448	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u449	Twenty years ago, day by day, Georges Marchais disappeared, who was a member of the Val-de-Marne for about twenty years, and national secretary of our party. If he were still with us, he would have denounced with his verve, his legendary energy and his combativeness the scandal of tax evasion. I would have regretted not paying tribute to him, today that we are fighting against this scourge, the result of a liberalism that too many Members support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u450	Thank you for that piece of history. I am already announcing that, on Amendment No 1385, which will come, the La France group has not submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u451	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 1385.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u452	The arms reels and the declarations of good intentions on the fight against optimisation have their limits, since you reject all the amendments that could enlighten us. The revelations on Paradise Papers are overwhelming. In 2015, 45% of multinationals' profits landed in tax havens to escape tax, or more than 600 billion euros. Might as well tell you that it's running high on the palm trees! The European Union thus loses more than a fifth of its tax revenue on these companies. The worst is that it loses much of it because of the tax dumping orchestrated within it, which successive French governments, including yours, have condoned. A company like Nike pays only 2% tax on its profits, thanks to a financial set-up carried out in the Netherlands. In this way, tax havens such as Malta, Ireland, the Netherlands, Belgium and the famous Luxembourg are flourishing under the patronage of Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission. Consent to tax is the basis of the Republican pact and no one should escape it. The principle of equality and justice requires that these companies participate in the national effort in the same way as others because they benefit from our infrastructure, our labour force, our training or our health care system for employees. These so-called tax optimisation practices reveal serious legal shortcomings, as there is no longer any difference between optimisation and tax evasion – or a very small difference, not even as thick as a prison wall. Our information report therefore aims to analyse these shortcomings and propose solutions to force multinationals to participate in the budget of the state in which they make profits. This is the first condition to make illegal what is already, and in the opinion of all, immoral.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u453	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u454	We already have a great deal of information from the OECD, which coordinates the major government initiatives in this area, so this new report does not seem essential to me. In addition, the Finance Committee interviewed Pascal Saint-Amans, the head of the plan to combat the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits – the BEPS project – adopted in 2015 and which culminated, two years later, on 7 June, in the signing by seventy States of a multilateral convention containing measures aimed at ending the abuse of tax treaties and increasing transparency, in particular with country-by-country reporting. This project has been supported on all benches of this assembly and by all successive governments. It is not a question of declarations of intent, nor of reports, but of action. Since 30 September, 50 states have been automatically exchanging bank information. They will be 102 by the end of the year. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u455	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u456	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u457	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u458	I'll just give you an example. Even before EADS was founded, even before the merger between Aerospace and the German company, the phantom structure that would accommodate EADS' headquarters in the Netherlands, where the gains are not taxed, had already been created! That's how it works! You're talking about flaws, about Paradise paper, but the root of the problem is much deeper and determines the whole direction of taxation for three decades. Mobile bases are less taxed because they are feared to leave. While corporate tax was 50% in the mid-1980s, which was not a particular problem, even under Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, we have now come down, in successive stages, to 25%, for fear of seeing these companies leave. The tax project that you presented to us this autumn follows the same logic: for fear that the rich will leave and that their capital will fly away, you will reduce their taxes. But on the contrary, you do not hesitate to tax heavily the stationary base, that is to say we, especially through VAT. As a result, 10% of the poorest French people pay proportionally more taxes than the richest 10%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u459	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u460	Don't make it look like we're acting on reports: we already have a lot of information. Nor do we believe that nothing has been done, for already under the previous legislature many provisions have been made. I will refer Mr Corbière to article L.13 AA of the book of tax procedures, which sets up the country-by-country declaration. On the other hand, we will have to assess the application and proper implementation of this measure. Yes, we are in action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u461	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u462	I invite you to look at the amending finance bill introduced by the Minister in the Finance Committee this week, which contains anti-fraud provisions. And the response that the Minister of Economy gave this week at the question-and-answer session to the Government attests that we are in action, since he has repeated that all the people and companies affected by the Paradise Papers scandal will be investigated and continued where necessary. In addition, a list of non-cooperative states and territories will be prepared and presented. We're in action, don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u463	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1385.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u464	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 1386.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u465	This amendment is intended for the Government to provide Parliament with an information report on the human and financial resources made available in the event of the abolition of the Public-Private Partnership Support Mission – MAPPP. I do not dislike my colleague, but I see this as a form of action, since this report would enable us to act accordingly and for the best. According to a report published in 2015 by the ISP World Trade Union Federation, public-private partnerships are neither more effective nor less costly, as the additional costs of using PPPs are estimated by this study to be 10 to 20%. The Court of Auditors had also expressed strong reservations about the use of PPPs by local and regional authorities. Unfortunately, despite these warnings, with a view to accounting for expenditure, as well as probably because of the interest of some major groups in being able to benefit from rents over decades, the ministries and the Government do not fundamentally question such practices, with the exception of the Ministry of Justice, which has recently become a major consumer and which has made this assessment. We therefore request that an information report be submitted on the elimination of MAPPP, which appears to be of no use, which would make it possible to redeploy its resources to a public investment that is otherwise more effective than public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u466	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u467	You are asking for a report in case of the deletion of the MAPPP, but know that this mission was already abolished by decree on 27 April 2016 and that it was replaced by a mission in support of the financing of infrastructure. The number of staff increased from five to nine. The mission now provides support without prioritising public-private partnership. Contrary to what you imply, there is no favouritism. Moreover, in this respect, the new structure has given more negative views on the use of public-private partnership in recent times, contrary to the practices of the last ten years. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u468	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u469	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u470	Mrs. Obono, would you like to speak again? So, quickly, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u471	Quickly, yes, Madam Chair, but I would like to respond to the committee. That's why we're here and we'll go to the end of the debate. Yes, Mr. Special Rapporteur, the name changes, but the structure remains. You just confirmed that public-private partnerships should stop. The Ministry of Justice has also begun to question these procedures. It would make sense to complete this process and to remove the forum, whatever its name, which is working to develop these public-private partnerships, and to reallocate the corresponding appropriations to more productive missions. We therefore wish to know what resources would be made available by removing the structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u472	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1597.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u473	A first reduction in employer contributions was decided for this year. Another, more important, will follow next year, replacing the competitiveness and employment tax credit. This policy is not original since it has been carried out since the 1990s successively by the Rocard, Balladur, Juppé and Fillon governments. The cost of this policy probably exceeds EUR 100 billion – it is not clear exactly since the estimates diverge. A review of the situation and an analysis of the benefits for almost thirty years would be desirable before going further on this path. I insist, Mr Minister, on the need for a debate – it will not take place today when the stomachs are dug, but you are on these benches the most open minister to debate – on the replacement of the current widespread sprinkler with a targeted policy – on TPEs and SMEs, on companies facing international competition, on strategic sectors for the future, as well as on environmental-related industries. Why continue spraying for example for the benefit of large distribution and a large number of companies that are not confronted with international competition?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u474	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u475	Stop reporting and move to action! The Committee for the Monitoring and Evaluation of State Aid to Enterprises and Commitments devoted its first report this year to the general exemption of employers' social contributions on low wages. I invite you to read it. In addition, work has been carried out since 1993 to evaluate the policy of exemption from employer contributions. Documentation on the subject is abundant. As part of the continuity of the exemption measures, the transformation of the CICE into a permanent reduction of employer contributions will improve the readability, sustainability and effectiveness of this policy in the service of employment. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u476	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u477	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u478	I call the appropriations from the financial assistance account "International Monetary Agreements", entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u479	I call credits from the Financial Assistance Account "Loans and Advances to Individuals or Private Organizations" listed in Statement D. On these appropriations, I have an amendment before me. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1038.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u480	Three arguments justify this amendment which I have previously announced concerning the Charles-de-Gaulle Express link. This infrastructure is essential for connecting Paris-Charles-De-Gaulle Airport in 20 minutes to the centre of Paris; it is essential to speed up its implementation with a view to the Olympic Games; It is also imperative to secure the lowest possible cost financing for the concessionaire company whose structure remains unchanged – Aéroports de Paris, Réseau ferré de France and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. There are two possibilities: financing by banks with the risk of paying high interest rates; either the establishment of a financial assistance account to lend the necessary sums to these public bodies – this is what the amendment provides for. We propose to abound this financial assistance account of 1.7 billion euros in commitment authorisations in order to obtain the cheapest and fastest possible financing of the Charles-de-Gaulle Express.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u481	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u482	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u483	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u484	In the absence of the answers I had hoped for, I repeat my specific questions about the CDG Express. Contrary to what you suggest by presenting us caricatureally as archaic, we are not opposed to the CDG Express, but we contest the way this operation is conducted and funded. Why does the State not itself control the works? Why is he using a 50-year concession? How can we explain that Aéroports de Paris, which is a partner in this case, is on the list of companies likely to be privatized in the near future? We are concerned about these issues because public money is involved. We refuse to finance public-private partnerships that are gabegies or gifts offered to companies that will be privatized tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u485	We have completed the review of the appropriations for the "Economy" Mission and the appropriations for the special accounts "International Monetary Agreements" and "Loans and advances to private individuals or organizations". I would like to inform you that, at the request of the Government, the discussion of the non-attached articles will begin with the consideration, as a matter of priority, of sections 41 to 45 of the 2018 Finance Bill as well as amendments to additional sections after section 45. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-16-O1057.u486	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2018: appropriations from the missions "Management of public finances and human resources", "Public action and transformation", "Unallocated appropriations" and "Social and pension schemes", as well as special accounts "Management of the real estate of the State" and "pensions"; non-attached items. The meeting is adjourned.
