ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill on confidence in public life (No. 98, 106, 102).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u2	This morning, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with section 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u3	Several speakers are inscribed on the item. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u4	With respect to the MFRI—representative of mandate expenses—all and everything was heard, including that it would be used as a pocket money for Members of Parliament. When one discovers, stunned, that some have used it to pay for their holidays, their plane ticket or the purchase of their permanence, one can no longer speak of pocket money, but rather of public money hijacked. In fact, in most cases, the MFRI is used to pay the rent of a permanence to receive the residents of its electoral district, to pay transportation costs within that electoral district, to pay the flower sheaves deposited during official ceremonies, or to pay the cuts given to the winners of various sporting tournaments. It is unfortunate that some unscrupulous Members cast reproach and mistrust on this whole House. When asked about this practice, the Assembly's deontologist indicated that it is prohibited to use the IRFM to finance an election campaign. All right! So why not go to the end of this process? Instead of deleting the IRFM and setting a clean table, why not ask the Ethics Officer to develop and publish a specific list of eligible or non-eligible expenses? Thus, no more danger of error, no more excuses either: each Member becomes responsible for his or her actions and each expenditure is or is not included in a list, which is clearer and applies equally to all. Exits the gas plant of having employees hired in the plethora assembly to control Members' bills, which always leaves the unpleasant impression of interference with the independence of the parliamentarian. We have a deontologist, use his know-how! This solution would have the merit of satisfying everyone without any extra cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u5	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u6	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u7	Here we are, to this famous question of the IRFM! Of course, this envelope must be framed. In our society, we are asking everyone for a minimum of transparency and it is necessary, if not normal, for Members to provide proof of their expenditure. As for the form that will take, it is up to our assembly to choose it. I would like to draw your attention to several points, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, who controls? The aim is to ensure that this envelope is not subject to political control or even an opportunity check. That is why I have tabled two amendments allowing the system applicable to election campaigns to be set aside and requiring an auditor to certify the sincerity of our expenditure. I will also raise the question of the expenses for which we cannot provide evidence. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that many of us participate in our ridings in kermesses or ducas and go to the bars of sports clubs. It is obviously not possible to provide proof of each expenditure incurred at that time. It is therefore necessary to discuss an advance on costs or an unjustifiable share of expenses. Certain expenses of the life of a Member, to a certain extent, cannot be the subject of a detailed justification on invoice. It is therefore necessary to leave it to the Assembly to define a maximum share in advance of costs. In any event, I am very much in favour of the obligation of Members to provide proof of their IRFM, which is quite normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u9	Mr Jean-François Eliaou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u10	In view of the text proposed by the committee and the amendments tabled, several points of debate may be raised. Overall, the political groups agree on three basic points: the definition of the material aspects of parliamentary work by a list of eligible costs, the need to control expenditure within the framework of our mandate and the pragmatism which is required, in particular, by parliamentary work in our constituencies. The scheme proposed by the committee seems to me to be balanced and realistic. Nevertheless, the question of the fiscalization and control of the advance of the mandate costs that can be paid by each assembly remains. If this portion of fees collected directly by parliamentarians is again subject to the CSG – generalised social contribution – and to the CRDS – contribution to the reduction of social debt – as was the former IRFM, its control will nevertheless have to become mandatory and non-random. One does not prevent the other, on the contrary! We must go to the end of the logic of rigorous management of public funds. The procedure for checking this advance and any penalties for failure to comply with the rule will have to be laid down when the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure are amended. However, I would like to outline the following points. With regard to expenditure control, in accordance with the principle of separation of powers and in order to preserve the freedom of exercise of our mandate, it is important to give priority to internal control in the National Assembly rather than the use of accountants or tax administration. In addition, the aim is to limit monthly cash withdrawals by a ceiling, e.g. 10% of the advance granted to parliamentarians. Of course, these withdrawals and expenses will have to be supported. In any event, our fellow citizens must see that we, as Members of Parliament, are willing to renew our practices in the interests of transparency, probity and control of public expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u11	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u12	It's been a while since this issue has occupied public opinion and the media, as well as ourselves, who are primarily concerned. I would remind those of you who were present at the beginning of the previous mandate that we have already been alerted by public opinion, who considered this mechanism inappropriate because, by the way, of its complete lack of knowledge which has not since been dispelled. We had then, at the initiative of the President of the National Assembly, Claude Bartolone, reduced the amount of the IRFM by 10%. Did it calm the spirits? Not at all! The suspicion is always the same; Worse still, it has grown considerably since then because the media have seized the subject and made it a point of fixation, which has heated the minds to white, And today, not only the MFRI principle is being questioned, but the appropriateness of the expenses incurred in this context is being questioned. You can see in what direction we have embarked on in spite of us! This envelope, necessary for the proper functioning of our mandate, is contested. However, as Pierre-Henri Dumont pointed out, it is used to finance travel and permanence expenses, as well as communication and hospitality expenses, all expenses that are absolutely legitimate and necessary for the discharge of our mandate. There is a need to maintain the means of operation for the Member. We must certainly give guarantees of control, but we must also ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that we exercise our autonomy. We must be trusted in the use of this allowance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u13	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u14	We have proofs. We haven't been deprived of it for five years. We can produce them and we can continue to produce them tomorrow. On this point, I invite you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Genevard. Mr Florian Bachelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u16	Initially referred to as a typing aid allowance, then as a secretarial allowance and finally as a representative allowance for mandate expenses, the incidental allowance intended to cover all expenses relating to the exercise of the parliamentary mandate which are not directly covered or reimbursed by the National Assembly was the subject of supervisory measures during the previous legislature. Nevertheless, its use remained inadequately controlled. The Bureau of the National Assembly therefore decided on 18 February 2015 to lay down strict rules for the use of the IRFM by MPs. Why do you want to abolish the allowance when the office has also defined the expenses eligible for the allowance and its management principles? Mainly because the payment of the MFRI was made a priori and this compensation could be akin to an excess of the principal allowance. This suspicion was fuelled by abuses, first hidden and then placed on the public square. Seized of the bill before us today, the Senate has somehow played King Solomon, as he often does with a certain talent, and has cut the pear in half. While maintaining the double requirement of ceiling and justification of expenditure provided for in the text, he left it to the Bureau of each assembly to decide whether the corresponding costs would be covered or reimbursed and whether they would be subject to prior or ex post checking. Our Committee on Laws – I thank him for this – has strengthened the mechanism voted by the Senate by preserving the general balance. The competence of the bureau of each assembly is strengthened and the monitoring and traceability system is entrusted to each ethics authority. Control of the eligibility of expenditure incurred, and thus advanced or reimbursed, already laid down by the general instruction of the office, could take the form of random checks; That is at least my wish. Article 32a of this instruction contains a list which could be refined or even subject to ceilings; That is also my wish. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The mechanism resulting from the Committee's work is balanced. It obliges the governing bodies of each parliamentary assembly to put in place a system of complete control over the use of the MFRI. Law enforcement will not, in Waldeck-Rousseau's words, be "in vain appearances" or "subterfuges." That is why I call on all my colleagues to adopt this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u17	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u18	When I read article 7, I think, "Nothing for nothing." Indeed, it is not a question of abolishing the MFRI, and fortunately indeed. The aim is to ensure that Members provide proof of expenses incurred. Quite frankly, I, who have worked in the professional world, do not see why only Members could spend the money of the state without providing proof. None of this is shocking to us. On the other hand, questions arise, including whether the costs to be incurred will be reimbursed on the basis of evidence or whether they will result in an advance payment. The first option presupposes that the MP has a personal fortune sufficient to advance the money; the second places us all on an equal footing. We therefore obviously prefer the latter, and we hope that the Bureau of the Assembly will subsequently decide in its favour. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] The list of eligible costs also raises a real question: it must be for Members to determine the costs inherent in their duties. It would be problematic for us to decide, for example, that those resulting from the invitation of trade unionists are not covered by it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u19	That's a real question, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u20	The shirt in the pants!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u21	Can I go on? Beyond this, I wonder whether, through this discussion, which seems to me to be common sense, we are once again focusing on the law on Members' expenses, as if the issue of the moralisation of public life was there and not on the topics we have tried in vain to address by our amendments, including the financial oligarchy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u22	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This is the real issue of this law. That's why I talked about a lot of noise for not much.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u24	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u25	The real problem is the relationship of the French to money, more specifically to money in politics. The elected representatives of the people must be adequately compensated. Otherwise, tomorrow, only people who can live from their personal fortune will sit here; We will have problems of corruption; and the members of certain professions will renegotiate to come to serve the general interest, for their banker will not necessarily grasp the meaning of their commitment. Those from the private sector will understand me. The real question we should be asking ourselves is: how can a Member of Parliament be allowed to carry out his or her duties? This raises a problem of equality which I regret is not discussed in the context of this reform. When I was a first-time member of Parliament, I had to rent my tenure for the first time and have work done there: inevitably, part of my IRFM went through this work, which I dragged throughout my term of office. Same thing when I bought my first vehicle. And since I had only one term when others were mayors, I had to pay my flowers while theirs were funded by their town hall. Objectively, therefore, we are not all in the same situation. There is a question of remuneration and a question of means, which could be linked to the problem of collaborators: if we have to be accountable – and this is obviously the case – this involves an administrative cost, and if we had four or five employees, the problem of the gas plant of proofs would not arise. How can we be held accountable? That's the question. However, the gas plant proposed here does not seem to me to be suitable. First, because there will be bills that have nothing to do with each other, from repayment of loans to proof of purchase of pens. Then because giving invoices to the National Assembly's office is de facto passing them on to political opponents when you sit in the opposition: if Pepsi-Cola presents invoices to Coca-Cola, it becomes a little complicated. Finally, because there is total hypocrisy, as all of you who have already had lunch with lawyers or members of other professions who are being reimbursed for their professional expenses: you pay half of the bill, and they pretend to pay the total to get it reimbursed as if they had invited you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u26	Thank you, Mr. Aubert.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u27	Let's get into the technical details!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u29	As Mr Bricout and Mr Cordier are absent, I give the floor to Mr Robin Reda.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u30	As you know, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I am attentive to the backwards in relation to the commitments made by the President of the Republic. However, while the original objective was to tax the MFRI,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u31	It is not yet too late: nothing is voted!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u32	...we come here to a much more complex system. This should be used to take into account several elements. First, territorial differences – if at least you still want "territorialized" MPs; I heard you say this morning on the radio that you wanted a return to the "purity of the parliamentary role", but, personally, I want to keep a permanent seat in the constituency. In my constituency, however, the monthly rent for a permanence of about 50 square metres is between 1500 and 2000 euros. I know that some provincial colleagues pay the luxury of having two permanences for the same price. It is therefore important that the remittance limits reflect these differences and that the inequity of a single amount of MFRI be eliminated. Has not the President of the Republic also pledged to empower parliamentarians? [[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] I will of course be in favour of the presentation of fee notes. I found in preparing my speech the addition of my lunch: I was with a colleague mayor; We had 63 euros, or 12 months of reduction of 5 euros from the APL. I imagine it will be the standard you choose, since it is a reasonable rate in your eyes! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We need to empower parliamentarians. It is not only necessary to control their spending better, to track those that have nothing to do with the cost of the mandate, certainly, but also to empower them to be free and independent parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u33	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u34	We must dispel the doubts of our fellow citizens about the functioning of the MFRI. That is why the La République en marche group has proposed in committee the provision we are discussing, which aims to eliminate the IRFM as we know it. We believe that the current operation of this envelope makes it look like a salary supplement in practice. The proposals for taxation that are regularly reflected in the discussion would only increase this impression.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u35	It was the President of the Republic who talked about taxing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u36	These are, in fact, hospitality expenses, absolutely necessary and legitimate, but they must be strictly controlled, because they are public money. The device we propose is as follows. We define three possible ways of managing these costs: direct payment, advance payment and reimbursement. In order to respect the separation of powers and the autonomy of assemblies, the bureau will be responsible for choosing between these three modalities according to the different types of expenditure. Practice shows that this flexibility is necessary. The types of eligible expenditure will also be defined more precisely by the office. Irrespective of the method chosen, Members will have to keep accounts in order to be able to justify their expenditure. A third-party control – for example, an accountant or the deontologist of the assemblies – will be established. Some Members have referred to this process as a gas plant. But I assure you: control can be random, as is the case in several private companies. The requirement for monitoring, certification and traceability of these expenses largely justifies this effort in accounting. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The La République group will vote in such a way as to retain this mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u37	Mrs Elise Fajgeles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u38	Like a number of you, I carry out my first term of office; Like a number of you – perhaps not the same – I've been doing politics for a long time. I am elected local; I love politics passionately; I respect those who do it, I respect those elected. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Having said that, in order to put the MFRI issue in the context of our debate, I will turn to my right-wing colleagues, as I have heard the most conservative comments from them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u39	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u40	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Sometimes I wonder if we've campaigned on the same planet!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u41	You're not even able to keep a promise! Then spare us your lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u42	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] You are constantly blaming the Government and the majority for making the bed of anti-parliamentarianism and stigmatizing the deputies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u43	Please! Only Mrs Fajgeles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u44	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Aubert, you were wondering yesterday why there was an urgent need to adopt this text when there was no scandal about the IMFR or about the parliamentary reserve; Fortunately, you did not have the impudence to talk about family jobs. But the scandal exists: it is the abstention that was experienced in the last parliamentary elections. And I am sorry to say that, but there is something that is not going on between the French and their representatives. I heard it, we heard it. Opprobation exists
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u45	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u46	Delicious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u47	...and suspicion exists: it is not we who invent it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u48	You're holding him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u49	The French wonder in particular how we use public money and how an envelope can be allocated, even for the exercise of a mandate as beautiful as that of parliamentarian, without control, without justification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u50	That's not what we're asking!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u51	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The French want more transparency and traceability in the use of these public funds. I do not see what is demagogic or populist – these are words I have been hearing for three days – to meet their expectations while in our German, British or Swedish neighbours, the expenses covered are made public by a system of cost notes with reimbursements and proofs. In a 2006 report...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Fajgeles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] All right, so I'm sticking to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that your debates on Article 7 will be passionate. I will give the floor to many of you; Everyone will have time to speak. I therefore ask you to listen to the speakers, so that everyone has the attention to which he is entitled. Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u55	If I may, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you a little bit about myself.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u56	Aaah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u57	I worked as a lawyer for almost seven years. It has therefore been seven years since, at any expense, I wonder whether it is personal or professional; and in the latter case, I keep proof. Because I have learned over the years to keep an account and to account for my expenses. For seven years, I have been doing this every day, and I am far from being the only one: all the liberal professions, all the self-employed, traders, craftsmen, entrepreneurs and many employees must justify the sums committed in the exercise of their profession. Here I am today, a Member of Parliament, and what seemed obvious to me is no longer a matter of course. For a month now, I've been charging a fee without having to justify it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u58	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u59	You haven't touched your IRFM yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u60	However, I continue to ask for invoices and keep them. They're here, in my stuff, in my office. But I have to admit that they don't interest anyone, when it's public money, when it's not our money. This article empowers us. He sends three requests to the offices of the assemblies. First, clearly identify the list of expenditures that constitute mandate fees. Second, determine for each of these costs a payment mechanism. Finally, to organise the control of these expenses, which must be justified. That's a very good thing. It's a habit to take. I hear the concerns, but we can be independent while remaining responsible. I hear it's a change of habit, a change of habit, but I know that many of you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u61	Thank you. Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u62	I'd like to make a brief reminder. A distinction must be made between the parliamentary allowance and the MFRI. Over time, while the parliamentary allowance remained stable, the MFRI was reassessed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u63	She's down!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u64	Recently, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u65	Five years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u66	The difficulty, as you know, is that the parliamentary allowance is governed by the 1958 Order, which is not the case with the MFRI. Today, we must put an end to the blurring that affects the use of the MFRI – even though there have been improvements. We need standardization, following the example of many people who have to justify the use of their expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u67	The lawyers are at real expense!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u68	It's not about lawyers here. It was in order to provide these necessary clarifications that the MODEM and related groups gave their full support to the commitment made on this point by the President of the Republic during his campaign. For us, the text voted by the committee is both clear and balanced. I am not going back to the device, which has been presented several times. We are committed to making this change clear. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] The MODEM Group will therefore vote for the text as it stands. I will simply draw attention to the decision to be taken by the Bureau of the Assembly on the means of control to be given to the ethics officer. I would also like us to reflect on the publication.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u69	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u70	Again, on the MFRI, as on many other issues addressed in this bill, everything is about balance. On the one hand, we owe transparency to our fellow citizens, because too many abuses have been committed in the past. On the other hand, we need to be able to work in good conditions and the MFRI allows us to meet a number of needs, whether it is accommodation for remote electoral districts, permanence or travel. The sums can be quite large, and I agree with my colleagues in France who are indifferent (Exclamations on the benches of the LR Group): if you do not want to have a two-speed Assembly, shared between the Members who would have the means to make substantial progress and the others, we must find a satisfactory balance. The system proposed by the committee is good: it strengthens the transparency of the scheme by providing for reimbursements on proof, because we owe it to our fellow citizens, while at the same time giving us the opportunity to work calmly through a system of advance. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u71	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u72	Citizens want the use of this envelope to be controlled and they are right. As with family jobs, I think it is useful to recall that the vast majority of elected officials used this envelope without cheating, with honesty.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u74	It should also be noted that in terms of the regulation of the IRFM, much has been done during the previous legislature, under the presidency of Claude Bartolone: decrease of 10% of the IRFM, in general indifference, prohibition of buying premises with IFRM to install its permanence, attestation on the honor of the compliant use of the IRFM, etc. The MFRI is not a supplementary income that would, in fact, involve taxation. It should also be borne in mind to the members of this House that the taxing of the parliamentary allowance in full has only been effective since 1 January last year, following an amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, which had been voted on by a large number of colleagues on all the benches. The MFRI is therefore intended to pay the costs associated with our mandate. Its use must be controlled in view of the too many slippages we have experienced, even if they are made by a small minority. What control? Personally, I defend a simple, compulsory accounting for each Member and at his expense, certified annually. Random oversight could be carried out by an external body, such as the Public Service Ethics Board, which would require little financial resources. If the citizens want control, I doubt that they will accept the recruitment of fifty officials to the National Assembly to check thousands of bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u75	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u76	Finally, I am defending dissuasive sanctions, which are bound to be heavy. Finally, I do not understand that the amount of the MFRI differs between the two chambers. It would seem logical to me that these allowances should be harmonized downwards, by reducing that of senators. The New Left Group will of course vote for this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u78	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u79	New article, new symbolic measure with the removal of the representative allowance for mandate expenses in the form we know today. Beyond the communication effect, we will note that the MFRI disappears. Nevertheless, let us welcome the interest in the wording of Article 7 since it will be at each meeting to determine the terms of reimbursement or payment, depending on the nature of the expenditure and with a certain ceiling. I would like to leave the debate on parliamentary assistants and collaborators to draw your attention to the situation of trainees. Thus, a trainee who is paid for three months, like the one who works with me at the moment, is not covered by the employee allowance, but by the IRFM. I would like you to clarify the new system, and I would like you to provide us with guarantees, in particular, to ensure the sustainability of this system. Is it possible for the Member who today pays his intern about 504 euros a month, drawn from the IRFM, to continue to do so if he wants to set foot on a young person in the course of study or at the end of his study? Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a measure of common sense. Instead of the system of advance, why not operate as independent employees or journalists and ask each parliamentarian to keep his proofs like statements of account, to draw up a simple accounting chart as my colleague has just said? Contrary to some, I am not opposed to the idea of keeping proof of my visit to the local McDo. If each compiles an accounting table summarizing accommodation, catering and other miscellaneous expenses, it will be much easier to limit abuses. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] We are committed to freedom in the exercise of our mandate, and in this sense we do not have to be accountable for what we do on a daily basis as elected officials. But we can still imagine that the deontologist of each assembly exercises random control over a small sample of these tables, each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u80	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u81	This bill takes the problem through the little bit of the lorgnette, as is evident from section 7. Is it sound to legislate on these issues just to respond to a topical circumstance? Is it necessary to legislate on the basis that elected officials would be criminals, what would a presumption of dishonesty weigh on them? Is trust in public life dependent on the proletarization of local elected officials, their questioning by the President of the Republic and the de-acralization of the parliamentary office? The parliamentary system is by its very nature outside the scope of ordinary law. The question of the compensation of elected officials and their personal means of action arises beyond the case of parliamentarians. Behind your moralization of pacolette, with this text of circumstance, debated in an emergency for reasons of government communication, hides a desire to interfere with the privacy of thousands of elected officials, to criminalise elected officials who must apologize for having a heritage, and this results in the withdrawal of the practical means of exercising an elected mandate. Today, there is only one construction of heteroclite texts, which intervene here and there, by strata, without an overall vision. The real question is the status of the elected candidate, which we wish to see completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u82	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u83	I would like to draw your attention to three points. First of all, if the French, it is true, feed a certain suspicion towards us, they do not like arrogance or invectives. I will allow myself to say to some of my colleagues, who are giving lessons, that such an attitude undermines the general atmosphere of the debates and the result we are seeking. On the other hand, we count on all these benches, honest, sincere, scrupulous, conscientious people, who have used the device made available to them by asking themselves, as one of our colleagues so well pointed out, for every expenditure made, whether it was part of the mandate fee or not. We are in favour of control, but on two conditions. Control must preserve the freedom to act of the parliamentarian, which raises the question of the body responsible for oversight and its limit. The nature of the expenditure must escape any judgment of opportunity. Control must be independent, which is linked. It is clear that the expenses will not be the same, according to the Members. Caution should be exercised at the management level. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Last point, finally. I wonder, in the light of the debate, about the vehicle chosen to carry this reform. Many articles refer the final choice to the Assembly. In this case, we strongly call for the removal of the MFRI. It is a pure measure of communication because we do not delete anything at all. The MFRI remains as everyone agrees on the need for an allowance to cover mandate costs. On the other hand, we refer to the National Assembly the task of defining the manner in which this allowance is to be used. Do you really believe that this deserves us to include it in the law as a flagship measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u84	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u85	Transparency vis-à-vis citizens, the probity of elected officials and the exemplarity of their behaviour are essential democratic requirements, but it must be reaffirmed here that almost all elected officials exercise their mandate with rigour, self-denial and a great sense of public interest. It seems to me quite normal that control should be exercised over the use by parliamentarians of the means granted to them, but must we introduce such a complex system, difficult to apply and capable of generating real accounting work? Above all, how do you control everything? A system of control of eligible expenditure, which would be defined by the bureau of each parliamentary assembly, would enable the use of the IRFM to be better regulated while at the same time empowering the elected representatives, without burdening their formalities. While the main objective is to restore confidence and prevent abuse, we must also find the right limit, the right format. A parliamentarian is not an employee in a company, let alone an accountant. We must therefore supervise, control, but not overly, because we are not responsible for the drifts of some who represent a minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u86	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u87	I would like to explain to you the two objectives of Article 7. The first objective of the article is to strengthen transparency and control over the expenditure made by parliamentarians with public funds. On the other hand, the IRFM cannot be a salary supplement or a supplementary remuneration, as has sometimes been the case. I could mention a few cases where a certain suspicion has surrounded the use of the IRFM by parliamentarians, throwing reproach on everyone – financing vacations or pool accessories for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u88	It happened in your house!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u89	These practices are unacceptable, and these examples make all parliamentarians unacceptably aware of them. Our fellow citizens don't want it anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u90	Clean up your house!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u91	I am not talking to you about cleaning up: I am telling you why we voted on these provisions in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And I repeat: these are only suspicions for the examples I have just mentioned. The mechanism that we voted together in committee is that the Bureau of the National Assembly should now decide on the conditions under which the mandate costs actually incurred by parliamentarians are paid directly by the Assembly, reimbursed within a ceiling, or subject to a cash advance. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] The transparency and justification of expenditure is in the direction of history, I believe, and we are very late in Europe on this subject. That is why I will vote for this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u92	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u93	The purpose of the article adopted in the Law Commission is not to remove the IRFM for pure pleasure. It is above all to ensure that the funds put forward by Parliament are properly allocated to the exercise of the parliamentary mandate and not to the increase of the heritage of some, as denounced by the High Authority for the transparency of public life. The artistic blur that has been weighing our assembly on this subject for years is obvious. An alternative system should therefore be put in place to meet this objective effectively and pragmatically. There are two options: tax the MFRI or delete it. If the MFRI is taxed, this means that this envelope corresponds to personal income; In other words, we double our income. As for the expenses associated with the mandate, they would fall into darkness, which would not meet the need for transparency and would deny the perfectly defensible reality of the costs of the mandate. We would also miss out on the expectations of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The Commission's proposal is sound: the actual mandate costs must be borne. The IFRM scheme could thus be removed in favour of a simple and transparent mechanism to cover these costs. The office of the National Assembly will be able to organize it and our annual accounts can be certified by an accountant, and randomly controlled. A system will be organised around a few simple axes, which I repeat: a maximum envelope, an advance fee, refunds on invoice, direct support on the model of the paying third party, and a list of eligible, clear and efficient expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u94	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u95	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the NG group]] In the speeches by Mrs Pires Beaune and Mr Bachelier, I have heard remarks of common sense concerning the provisions that we are going to vote on and the powers granted to the Bureau of the National Assembly – a positive list, a ceiling, a random check. It is a fine compromise between ethics and practice. This reform of the MFRI should not be overstated. Of course, there have been abuses, but the vast majority of Members have long managed this compensation sparingly, ethically, in accordance with the provisions that we are going to vote for. In addition, we cannot ignore the idea of the money report in this debate. Our group will propose, within the framework of the organic bill, otherwise radical provisions, which will relate to the relationship to the money of the Members, in particular the exclusivity of the parliamentary allowance in relation to any other public resource, i.e. the modification of the ceiling, as proposed by René Dosière. Another rather revolutionary amendment, too, will aim to make the public resource exclusive when committed to the service of the Republic. We must serve the state at 100% to eliminate any risk of conflict of interest or agendas. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] Our group is in favour, as Damien Abad had proposed, of setting aside the status of the parliamentarian, whether it is his retirement or the special regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u96	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u97	I fully understand the public's criticism of the lack of transparency in the use of the MFRI. We have to answer that. I hope that we can find the best solutions, the least expensive ones too, to meet this legitimate demand because it is a matter of public money – I am convinced that the majority of us are using it quite legally. However, I would like to relativize the objections that have been expressed about the so-called life train that we would lead to the House. First of all, all the countries of the European Union are aware of the mistrust we are trying to respond to today. However, our resources are far from comparable to those enjoyed by some colleagues. For example, German MEPs receive six times the minimum wage in the country, plus a third non-taxable allowance for their second home in Berlin. As you can see, there is nothing excessive about the benefits we receive. I would not like our discussions and the decisions that will result to lead us to fall into control systems that are far too sophisticated and far more expensive than those we know. A Member of Parliament needs means to carry out his or her duties, whether in his or her constituency or in the National Assembly. Whatever the solution we are going to adopt, these means must be kept to a minimum to enable it to meet the costs that it must incur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u98	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u99	In response to the request of the French, the desire to increase transparency in the use of the means available to Parliament is expressed. Contrary to what I have heard, we are not opposed to strengthening the means of control, provided that they are adapted and conform to certain principles. If we are to introduce a new system for meeting expenses related to the discharge of our mandate, we must keep in mind two principles. The first principle is the need for autonomy and independence, which are indispensable components of respect for the separation of powers. The separation of powers is a guarantee of the proper functioning of our institutions. The absence of autonomy would lead to an undeniable weakening of Parliament for the benefit of the Government and the high administrations, which would be detrimental to democracy itself and to the separation of powers. Secondly, the need for adequate and adequate resources, which may vary from one Member of Parliament to another, to carry out our work properly and to fulfil the tasks for which we have been elected. Depending on whether one is elected from a rural territory or from a district of a large city, the necessary means are not the same. The criteria selected must correspond to each case. In any event, the introduction of a different system, including modifications or simplifications, must take into account the two principles that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u100	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u101	Minister, you were invited this morning on the airwaves of Europe 1 to explain the reasons for this bill. To the journalist who asked you about the future of this bill, you replied quite precisely and directly that there was no doubt that the bill would be passed. These remarks have certainly been made outside the Chamber, but they are binding on you. They particularly shocked me because they suggest that there would be a primacy of the executive over the legislature. You'd know in advance how the National Assembly is going to vote. This seems to me extremely imprudent in the mouth of a member of the Government. Moreover, this is quite disrespectful of Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In view of your duties and on the part of an eminent jurist, these words are surprising: they once again show the vision that the Government, if not the President of the Republic, may have of legislative power, namely that the latter is subordinate to it. It's unbearable! Perhaps the majority is not surprised, but the opposition is concerned about the way in which the Government treats the legislative power. This drift is all the more regrettable since you are the Minister of Justice and keep seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u102	It's the dictatorship on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u103	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u104	I rise to support article 7 of the Law Commission's text as well as the Government. In my view, the position of defending an IRFM without any justification was untenable. When every taxpayer in our country is asked to be able to provide evidence of his or her professional expenses, it was unjustifiable not to demand it from Members. We're going to build a new device. You have had the wisdom to leave it to the office of each assembly to do so. I think we're going in the right direction. In the absence of rules, certain behaviours – which are not those of 95% of the members of this assembly – have been tolerated. I was amazed to learn that a former Prime Minister, who claimed to be President of the Republic, did not even have a parliamentary tenure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u105	He's not the only one!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u106	How could he justify an IRFM? There is a need to find a system of justification, which is not administratively cumbersome. But we are moving towards the restoration of trust by introducing this system. That's why I'm giving you my support.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u107	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u108	Is MFRI useful? Yes, everyone in this assembly will recognize him. Is there a subject? Yes. Either the MFRI is considered to be income and, in some cases, it must be taxed. Either it is considered to cover the cost of the warrant, and there is a need for proof. I defend – I know I'm a minority – the option of taxing the MFRI, because it has the advantage of simplicity and clarity. Above all, it offers the immense advantage of avoiding an increased media coverage of a real-world reimbursement system that may sometimes be Kafkaian. If Emmanuel Macron was really liberal, he would have chosen this option. The other option, which you are about to retain, is the real refund option. The solution proposed by the Law Committee seems to me to be quite appropriate, but let us be careful – as colleagues have said – about the risk of a permanent race for the media. I am often told that a manager or an employee has to justify his or her costs in real terms. That's right. But unlike the latter, a parliamentarian is in the media. It is therefore necessary to avoid the race to the permanent shallot. If you want to go for lunch at Jules Verne, for example, with some friends, will we ask you for the note, check the bottle of wine you have eaten or the menu you have chosen? I say it in the tone of humor, but the limit of exercise is there. We all want to make an effort, but we need more clarity. That's why I'm defending random control. I regret that Article 40 of the Constitution has been opposed to such a proposal: I do not understand how random control can be an additional burden in relation to systematic control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u109	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u110	During the presidential campaign, two big words were heard: "IRFM" and "parliamentary reserve". For some, their removal would be the alpha and the omega of transparency and above all of a citizen's shock. In most European countries, fees are controlled – we are not talking about not doing so, I will come back to it – and the parliamentary reserve does not always exist. However, distrust of political personnel is manifested in proportions equivalent to those we know. Do not believe that we will dispel the feeling of distrust only thanks to the totem you offer us. Control does not pose any difficulty. Today, Members already have bills, statements of account. Our fellow citizens should not imagine that we are throwing money through the windows without control, without any personal and collective ethical requirements. Controls are possible, provided that they do not give rise to the great inquisition. This brings me to the question of the publication of the proofs that some on these benches would like. Some colleagues have done so for a citizen movement – Mediapart echoed it a few days ago. They were seven to play the full game of transparency. Well, we blame them now, for some of them having gone too often to the hairdresser, for others having bought too many sheaves! It never stops! [[Applause on several benches of the LR and LC groups]] We must be able to carry out our mandate as we please! When you're in a city, you've got fewer miles to go, you've got fewer sheaves to drop off! If a woman wants to go to the hairdresser several times,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u111	Or a man!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u112	...it's her business; if she considers this to be part of the representation requirements... Same thing for men, we'll soon be criticizing the clothes, the car, the menus!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u113	The ties!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u114	I believe that this transparency needs to be limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u115	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u116	Since the discussion is about the article and not about amendments, it is the generality that needs to be considered at this moment. Those of our colleagues who argue the need to justify the MFRI cannot be taken in default. That has been well said, if it is an amount allocated to expenses related to the exercise of the mandate, we must account for it, point, and be able to do the part – it helps us in everyday life. But on the contrary, we must also be careful, as our colleague has just said excellently – you will see, it will happen like that – at the risk of an endless inquisition process. Personally, it makes me happy. Why has all this been developed? To restore confidence in political life. Do you feel after three days that you have advanced this confidence by one metre? I think it's the opposite. That's why I want to thank you. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] As you know, we are the supporters of a citizen revolution and a transition to the Sixth Republic. You have, with great talent, for three days – and this will still be the case for two days – methodically dug the grave into which will be buried what remains of illusions about Parliament, detailing who did this, who did that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u117	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u118	Good! I'm glad. Confidence in political action will emerge weakened from this debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u119	More!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u120	... – I am not blaming you, I am very pleased with it – by the choices that have been made and by everything that has been said here for hours. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let us allow a moment of political philosophy: the next political crisis that is coming before us will be a regime crisis, because no one in this country will believe that anyone is in a position to reform from within the institutions that are returned to bring together 500 people for days to discuss how to pay for the mandate. So welcome to the citizen revolution! You have contributed with great elegance and efficiency!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u121	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u122	First of all, I would like to reply to Mr Pajot: it is not a suspicion to ask Members for proof of their expenditure. We are asking everyone, that has been said, the employees, the civil servants, the self-employed. That's not why we're putting suspicion on all these people. That's normal. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Our discussions are interesting, but they give the impression that replacing the IRFM with a system with supporting documents is super complicated while it's super simple. This has only advantages. This will make it possible to compare expenditures by type of electoral district and to know whether to give more to some.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u123	Who will do this job?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u124	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Everything is simple: keeping your proofs from the first euro – that was said by Lætitia Avia – is super simple; Doing checks, especially if they are random, is super simple. I'd like to believe that it upsets the habits of some, of those who were not rigorous enough, but many already managed the IMFR very well. This way, it goes in the right direction, it's simple, so let's go!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u125	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u126	For us, it is a matter of solving a simple technical question: if there is suspicion, we must lift it unambiguously, without, however, throwing a bullet in the foot, that is, without calling into question the independence of our function. It's easy to report. I am in favour of the principle of simple accounting, on the basis of proofs which should be drawn up before – let's say – on 15 March of the following year. The figures would be monitored and the issue resolved. However, not all of our discussions should focus on this technical issue, which, although it has probably been insufficiently resolved so far, has nevertheless evolved considerably. What I see is that it is much easier to talk about these subjects than Bercy's lock. Addressing these technical issues creates less complexity in minds than resolving fundamental issues, which should involve our fellow citizens more. Bercy's lock, to cite only this example, is a problem which, at this moment, comes back to us in another way: it raises a question far more important than what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u128	Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u129	As far as the IRFM is concerned, which concerns us all, I have found some irregularities in the way in which it operates. This does not concern me personally – so I can talk to myself about it – but some of our colleagues do not have an office in which they can sleep, which requires them to draw thirty euros a day from their IRFM to stay. At the end of the month, this situation creates a real irregularity between us. It is therefore necessary to put everything on the table and try to find a fair solution, because it is not normal that, because of the lack of a sleeping office, an elected member of Bordeaux is forced to stay at the hotel. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] The discussion is interesting. At least there is a clear debate and, for once, we are listening. Let's keep doing it. The MFRI must be flattened.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u130	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u131	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Indeed, many Members of the majority spoke in this debate. I wish we had so much debate on broader issues! But it's positive. We agree on the need to clarify, to keep accounts, to give evidence. That is what we ourselves are trying to do. It is good that this is clarified. Perhaps the system could be further improved. I agree with some colleagues that an advance must be made, otherwise there is an inequality between those who have – or do not – the means to bear the costs. We also talked about random checks. Perhaps the Assembly could help Members by providing auditors, as is done for financial management. There are therefore things to be done. On the other hand, we will disagree if you think that this debate will help to lift suspicions about political and public life, particularly about money management. I'm so sorry! If that were the case, it would prove that the suspicion of public and political life is due only to these deplorable malpractices, which should no longer exist. But it's not that simple. We have explained this and will continue to do so for the few hours remaining. The democratic crisis, that of the institutions, is far deeper. It is not just about parliamentarians. We see this in the gap between the time we devote to resolving these questions of detail in parliamentary life and the time we reserve for all other subjects, which should be of interest to us. I urge you to read Today's Humanity, which alerts us to operations that we should be warning. We would exercise our responsibility by acting. Despite what Mrs. Keeper has said, this is an example of what should be done and what you have chosen not to do today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u132	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u133	I will extend this excellent intervention. On the MFRI, there is no need to talk for hours. When you have nothing to blame, no rule is insurmountable. I see that the Members of the majority are very prolix when it comes, in a certain way, to adding lapalissades: "You are a parliamentarian, you will not steal, you will not violate, you will not bother your neighbour, you will not kill. "Okay! We agree with that. [["Out of subject matter! » on several benches of the REM group]] The problem is that we are debating these issues, while last week, when the labour code was going to be broken, dismantled, the parliamentary majority was plunged into deafening silence. I remember when the minister responded to our group's amendments. It was a question of whether companies that distribute stock options have the right to lay off or whether those that pay dividends can engage in unfair dismissals without real and serious cause. To that question, the minister replied, of course, that no, as did the rapporteur. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Except that if we read today's Huma, and I did so with great attention, we find that the Minister of Labour is disqualified to come and talk to us next week, which is not likely to restore trust between citizens and the public authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This is even such a situation as to cast reproach on today's draft, which could be resolved in five minutes because of its consensus. But you did not want to deal with the question of the connivance between finance and the political world, because you have engraved in the marble the connivance between finance and the political class that you represent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u134	Mr Roland Lescure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u135	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Perhaps it is because I am not sitting very far from Mr Mélenchon, but for once – I don't know if this will happen again in the course of the legislature – I agree with him on one point: we spend a lot of time discussing this subject, and the French who listen to us must wonder how we can debate so much evidence. It is time to bring the National Assembly into the twenty-first century, both in form and in substance. In substance, almost every company in the world, and most parliamentarians in the world, declare their costs, which does not prevent them from being honest. Besides, it is not because we declare our costs that we will become more honest. We'll only become like everyone else. On the form, when I hear that it will take fifty officials...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u136	Eighty!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u137	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ...to incorporate the cost notes of 577 Members, I think we also need to improve efficiency. In this regard, I trust the Quaestors. We have entered the twenty-first century. There are many tools to conduct these operations in a very effective way, and I am confident that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u138	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u139	I am in favour of this text because the MFRI has too much suspicion. The French and the media regard it as a supplementary income, which is not fair because it is intended for nothing but to compensate the costs inherent in the function. I agree that all expenditure should be justified, as is the case in many European democracies. When I was on probation in Denmark 20 years ago, it was already happening, including at the level of ministers. Yes, they also justified their costs! The proposed reform will help restore confidence in Members and improve ethics, of which we must be the guarantors. Ethics and ethics are important. Wrongly, the French sometimes blame us for missing them. Through this reform, we bring a small stone to the transparency of public life and confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u140	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u141	So here we are in episode 7 of your successful series of the week: "Autoflagellation of naughty parliamentarians whose autonomy could harm the omnipotence of the President of the Republic". To the best of my knowledge, the flat-rate system allows for random or regular checks, as well as bank traceability. For my part, I am fully prepared to justify every euro spent in the discharge of my mandate. But still! What additional means will your system mobilize in the National Assembly? We'll have to hire at least eighty more people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u142	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u143	You pay your crystalline purity well on the taxpayer's back! Then what hypocrisy! Because we'll be scanning every month, will political life be pure? And are ministers, are all their expenses justified in principle? I was very pleased to hear that my colleague Reda had lunch today with a mayor. And Mrs. Minister, with whom did she have lunch and for what amount? Perhaps it would be very interesting for democracy to know that. What about the President of the Republic? How much did his lunch with Rihanna to save the world cost? We'd like to learn that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u144	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u145	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u146	And what about the lifestyle of the administrations? These are just as important, if not more important, issues than those we are dealing with. Finally, the application of this article will pose endless problems: monthly ceiling, annual ceiling, price of a meal... What about the rejection of the expense notes? Your sacrificial masochism must really please the President of the Republic, but it will not make the success of the quinquennium. It will have to be doubled by a good dose of openness and foresight. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If the political communication that you are abusing – I agree, Mr Lescure – and which obliges us to look at the navel since Monday was enough to restore the French confidence in politics, we would have achieved this result for a long time. Let's take care of our fellow citizens, and quickly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u147	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u148	I will look back on the sentence that the minister spoke on Europe 1 this morning: "The project will pass. Unlike others, I do not want to be indignant and to fall into hypocrisy. Yes, we know the project will pass and that's the whole problem. Parliament has become a chamber of registration of the President's wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u149	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u150	I know that some will recite, but for me, it is not a phenomenon specific to Emmanuel Macron. We have already experienced this situation, certainly with a few slings, under the presidency of François Hollande or under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy. We are allowed to speak on the text, to correct it, to retouch the commas. But, for three days now, I have had the impression that we are debating the sex of deputies like theologians were discussing the sex of angels. What is a concubin? Can we hire his brother-in-law? What else do I know? Some issues are broader. My feeling is that we must tell the French that we are not legislating here. We're figuring. The real projects are now carried by the President of the Republic and relayed by the Government. We touch them at the margin. In order to restore confidence in public action, particularly in Parliament, the debate should not be limited to the hiring of a particular individual, the MFRI, or the allowance or the thing. We should ask ourselves how to ensure that Parliament plays a real role in legislation and that it can set its own priorities and agenda. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The focus of the debate for public action should be on how to cut the line between the executive and the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u151	Long live the 6th Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u152	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u153	I have just listened to many speeches, to the right and to the left. I hear some anxiety. Some colleagues fear the ineffectiveness of this new legislation. Many of you are looking for the right measure, the one that will strike the opinion. They run after a control mechanism that would put an end to the discussions. Colleagues, there is no magic wand. The measure that makes it possible to draw a definitive line on this transparency debate, we do not have it. No device will offer us a shield against activists and citizens' demands. So let me say something clearly: the device must be applied in a full and complete manner, but, for hearing Laurence Dumont's speech yesterday about Mr Bompard, I have the impression that it is not won. And that imposes on us all a requirement of behaviour. A second danger awaits us, perhaps more subtle: the race at the best so-called. I repeat what Mr Abad has said: some colleagues think they are doing well by committing themselves individually to go further than the texts, by proposing to give up part of their remuneration and to communicate in real time on their fees. All this is legal and can be driven by positive intentions. It may be useful to move the debate forward, but you know that hell is paved with good intentions. The courageous Member will have a few moments of glory, very short, as Mr Abad said, while the price will be paid in cash by everyone. His action will strengthen those who think that the law is bad because insufficient, in the sense that it would still allow us to hide our turpitudes. The second consequence of this behaviour would be to create two categories of deputies: the virtuous, who would be at the forefront, and the vast majority who, by limiting themselves to respecting the law, would seem to be complacent in the half-measures. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] The answer is in all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u154	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u155	Madam rapporteur, the keeper of the seals, I would like you to enlighten me, who sits on the benches of the Conservatives, whose spirit is necessarily narrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u156	If you say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u157	It's a confession that honors you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u158	You will be able to explain – generously and kindly, I have no doubt – on an issue that I have been struggling to understand for some time now – I dare not think that something would be hidden from our eyes. If most of our expenses – our rents, our recurrent expenses – are or will be borne directly by the Assembly, or reimbursed on presentation of an invoice, what will be the control? I imagine that when an invoice is sent to the services of the Assembly – for example for a wreath – they will check whether the expenditure is in accordance with the rules that we have set ourselves and whether, as a result, it is refundable. The unannounced controls that we are being told will, if I understand correctly, be on the other side, that is to say, on the advance that will be granted to us. Finally, it may be that, in a few weeks' time, when the Bureau of the Assembly is discussing all this, we are in exactly the same situation as we are in today. Basically, if I need you to enlighten me, it's because I think all this hides a major communication strategy. I agree with Mr Mélenchon, which is rare enough to be stressed. Madam Keeper of the Seals, the new Member of Parliament whom I am, naive and ignorant of many things, sees how much you have been focusing on what is worse for parliamentarians for several days. So this morning, on the radio, you made some shocking comments, not to say more.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u159	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u160	You spoke of the "purity" of the National Assembly, of returning to the "purity" of the parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u161	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u162	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LC groups, as well as on several benches of the FI group]] Madam Minister, for a new elected person like me, it is shocking to hear that there may be impure elected members of the nation here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall close the discussion on Article 7. I inform you that you have been forty-two speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u164	That's not much! There's a margin!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u165	Once the minister has spoken, we will move on to the amendments. I am warning you that we will obviously not be able to have 42 speeches on amendments under joint discussion. The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u166	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] I want to emphasize two words: rigor and trust. I have heard a lot of excessive comments, sometimes on the substance, but above all on the form. I do not believe that the measure proposed to you is a flagship measure; I simply believe that it is necessary and of common sense. It has nothing to do with sacrificial masochism, Mr.Di Filippo, nor would it be an announcement of a citizen revolution. Anyway, not this one! As some of you have said, it is a common sense measure, which simply aims to ensure that parliamentarians, as many of us often do, are able to justify their costs in order to obtain reimbursement. That's just what was said. There is, moreover, no "back-paedaling", as I have heard here from Mr Reda's mouth, it seems to me; This is the second time you have spoken this word, honourable Member, and I would like it to be the second.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u167	It's up to you, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u168	You use this word in its critical sense. On the contrary, it could be conceived in a positive sense, with an objective to be achieved, by means of a timetable and a method. That is what we wanted to do: to give clarity – this has been requested by some of you – and to propose a method. The text submitted for your consideration is inspired by this rigour. I do not think that this text is very complicated. On the contrary, it seems to me that the system that has been put in place is quite simple, I repeat, and of common sense: it has been built with parliamentarians. I will make you observe – you cannot ignore it, since these are figures from the National Assembly itself – only in 2013, a public report submitted by the ethics officer of your assembly indicated that 42% of the consultations he received were about the IRFM. This proves that there is a difficulty and a need for clarity in this area. The system we are putting in place is therefore an efficient and rigorous system. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The second word I wanted to stress is trust. For some of you, you have expressed fears, what I can hear: who will control, how will we control? I answer you: trust your assembly, yourself, your office...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u169	We're not in the office!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u170	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] ...which will put in place the rules necessary for this control. I am sure that, in this way, you will get satisfaction. This principle of trust is simply the corollary of the Assembly's principle of autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u171	Ask us to trust, but it's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u172	That is why we wanted to design this mechanism. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM and LC groups]] I will conclude by saying that, yes, I am sure that this measure will be voted on. And saying that, I do not think that Parliament's rights are being infringed, on the contrary. Yes, I am sure that this measure will be voted on, because it was not so written in the Government's draft, it was worked with senators, with the Law Commission, to which I pay tribute. Both have made amendments that we have accepted, because they are logical and relevant. I am therefore certain, I repeat, that this provision will be voted on. I can't imagine it could be any other way. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] And I am astonished, Mr. Hetzel, that you were opposing my premonitory vision of young girl's modesty.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u173	It's a bit sexist!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u174	We come to the amendments to Article 7. I have before me four amendments, Nos 213, 126, 249 and 127, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u175	Thank you, Madam Sealing Officer, for paying tribute to the Senate. I had not noticed, so far, that you showed him a great deal of respect, given the number of arrangements, unanimously voted by senators, that have been removed by the will of your government. That being said, I take note of your comments. The aim of this amendment is to enshrine certain crucial points in the law in order to guarantee the independence of parliamentarians and, consequently, of the legislative power from the all-powerful executive, in particular with regard to the rights of the opposition. It deals with two main points. First, the certification of expenditures under the MFRI by an External Auditor, which will have two advantages. On the one hand, it will save money, as it will prevent the Assembly from making reckless recruitments to control the costs of everyone. On the other hand, it is already a tried-and-tested system, because it is used when our campaign accounts are deposited after the elections. Secondly, this amendment aims to allow an advance without justification for a few hundred euros, simply because, at certain times in the life of a parliamentarian, it is impossible to justify the expenses incurred; For example, in schools, associations, agricultural committees, it is simply impossible to ask for an invoice. The filter of an auditor will help to avoid certain political trials which would not fail to provoke somewhat ill-intentioned controllers who would, for example, leak into the scandalous press – I am thinking of a certain "palmipede" – the expenses of a particular opponent, in order to throw on him a generalized reproach. The enemy of trust, as we have said, is total transparency. Why, at lunch, have you taken in, flat, dessert and coffee? Why go to the hairdresser twice a month? Why did you buy that shirt and not another one? In short, the system proposed in the amendment avoids, in my view, this pitfall. That's why I submit him to your sagacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u176	I call Mr Damien Abad to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u177	This amendment proposes the other possible option for the MFRI, namely its taxation. I defend this measure because it has the advantage of clarity and simplicity. I do not question your intentions, but, as I know, the media coverage that surrounds women and politicians will necessarily lead to a race for the stallion. The system of taxation, on the other hand, has several merits. It makes it possible to avoid hiring civil servants to pay the costs in real terms and thus allows savings, which is not negligible in the light of France's public deficit. Moreover, this device offers the advantage of simplicity. In truth, you do not want to assume this form of regularization of the MFRI. But transparency is not Loft Story, it's not voyeurism, it's not nude from morning to night. Transparency is simply about restoring the relationship of trust between elected officials and citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I'm afraid the cure you've developed is worse than evil; I fear that upon arrival, the system you are proposing – real repayment – will lead to a Kafkai system, while we share the same objective, that of transparency. Taxation seems to me to be the best measure of cost and simplicity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u178	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u179	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 249.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u180	[[Smile]] I would like to respond to those of our colleagues who are surprised at the length of our debates on this subject. Reference was made to the Kafka aspect of the proposed scheme. I want to say, as in OSS 117, Rio no longer answers: it's France, Dolores, Emmanuel Macron's France! More seriously, we are asked to join the common law, to submit to the same regime as all our fellow citizens. Well, chick! Let's tax all our allowances. Let's put everything on the table. This is the most transparent system possible, the common law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u181	There's no problem anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u182	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LC groups]] There is no longer any problem of fees, everything is done in real terms, as for any of our fellow citizens. Shit! Let us tax all the allowances, the tax administration will check; In the event of difficulties, the Member will deal with the tax officer like any of our fellow citizens. The best solution is common law. Otherwise, a gas plant is manufactured, there is the question of who controls, who does not control, who establishes the invoice. You want transparency, you want to avoid inquisition? We propose common law, as for all the French. That is the meaning of Amendment No 249.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u183	I call Mr Damien Abad to support Amendment No. 127.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u184	This amendment is in line with the previous one. I agree with what Philippe Gosselin said: it is a matter of placing oneself in common law. In addition to taxing, we also propose a duty to report in good faith, which will allow the Member or Senator to explain his use of the MFRI through the various expenditure items. Believe me, the system of taxation is the right system, because it allows us to be in common law, to avoid fantasies, and offers clarity, readability, coherence and simplicity. This is the only way we can finally get out of this debate to deal with the real problems of the French, namely employment and the economic situation. On the other hand, Madam Minister, what about your system when Members of Parliament are elected proportionally and others in the uninominal vote? You will have to explain to me how you will apply this arrangement to an assembly composed of MPs elected in a different way, which will bear costs of a different nature in the electoral districts and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u185	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u186	I call Mrs Jaël Braun-Pivet, chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to give the committee's opinion on these four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u187	[["He arrives" on the benches of the LR group]] This is a subject which has been of great concern to the committee in the context of the preparatory work it has carried out and the meeting it held this week on the texts under discussion. It seemed to me that we had reached a significant degree of convergence on the scheme we voted for. I think this is really a good point of arrival, as Mr Larrivé pointed out, which is not there this afternoon. The mechanism that we have chosen in committee is very similar to that developed by senators. It has the advantage of allowing our two assemblies great flexibility, while guaranteeing a common philosophy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u188	Answer the question of taxation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u189	I'm going to go, but I'm free to talk about it! Our system allows us both to establish control over our expenditure, to ensure transparency of our expenditure and above all to guarantee a certification, free to the office of our assemblies to determine the conditions – should we use an accountant, an auditor or internal control in our assemblies?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u190	Never, never!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u191	The law must not have that degree of precision. The alternative to the system proposed by our committee is that of taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u192	What is your opinion, Madam rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u193	My opinion is obviously unfavorable. Taxation poses a problem in terms of the separation of powers, because it would involve the tax administration to determine the regularity of the fees that we deduct as a parliamentarian, and it would remove the MFRI from the control and transparency framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u194	Hypocrite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u195	This is not hypocritical and corresponds to the very essence of the MFRI, which only covers the expenses of parliamentarians. So, opinion against the defiscalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u197	I trust the tax administration!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u198	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I trust the autonomy of the assemblies, Mr. Member of Parliament! Unfavorable opinion. We have asked ourselves about the best system, since that of taxation appears to be simpler at first glance. We have not retained him for two reasons. First, taxation results in the deduction of actual costs, which is quite normal, which will be controlled by the tax administration. And it seemed to us that this affected the autonomy of the assemblies, because you will be controlled over the heart of your activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u199	You've got a girl's modesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u200	No, I don't have a girl's modesty, I'm telling you our legal reasoning. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Secondly, we have not retained taxation for another reason, linked to the issue of the overall remuneration of parliamentarians. As I have already had the opportunity to say before the Senate, this question deserves to be asked, and it is worthy of the activity that we must conduct. We do not have the means to respond to it here, without the assemblies having carried out a work that could lead to measures. You will have the opportunity to answer this question when we discuss the number of parliamentarians at the time of constitutional reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u201	On Amendment No 249, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u202	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I don't want to argue, but the writing of the text makes me personally uncomfortable. We were several, candidates from La République en marche or MODEM, to have resumed this campaign commitment on the taxization of the IRFM and its entry into the ordinary law. We will have a discussion on the parliamentary reserve, which was another of our markers, but I made commitments to my constituents on the taxing of the MFRI. Personally, Mr.Gosselin's amendment, which includes an amendment tabled by Senator MODEM, seems to me to be in line with the commitments I have made to the electors. So today I have to defend him. Minister, I object to your analysis that taxing would undermine the separation of powers. The amendment aims to ensure that the tax administration does not control the commitment of expenditure, but rather its deductible nature. This is the common law: when a head of a business or a member of a liberal profession has dinner or lunch with someone, the purpose of control is to differentiate between sumptuous expenditure and normal expenditure. The most complete transparency will be ensured, as the control of tax deductibility will apply, but the commitment of the expenditure will remain in the hands of the parliamentarian. Jurists have discussed this issue, which is the subject of debate, but, in our view, taxation is not unconstitutional and does not affect the rights of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u203	Excellent intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u204	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u205	I also think that taxing would be much simpler, but it seems to me that it is a little too late to make it clear to public opinion, not because of our new assembly, but because of that of our predecessors. It is quite normal to start with ourselves, and I have absolutely no sense of being dependent or under control. By doing this work, even if it lasts for a long time, we are strengthening our independence. We do the law, and the cord is cut. We spend a lot of time there because of our colleagues on both sides of the House, and because of contradictory, sometimes contradictory, postures or games of words. That's what's behind us; We could go a lot faster on this. Independence is there because, whatever you say, Mr Mélenchon, this law will pass through parliamentarians who represent a majority. We have proposed amendments that have not been accepted, but we must now move quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u206	Let's close Parliament! Let's make it a post office that will receive the Elysée's recommendations!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u207	For independence, we must start with ourselves. Transparency on the MFRI must be voted on quickly, and I fully agree with my colleague Roland Lescure: this is an easy step to take!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u208	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u209	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Costs are not taxable income, so the taxing of the MFRI involves the inclusion of these amounts in the parliamentary allowance. This amounts to doubling or even tripling the compensation. We have to say things clearly! [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Yes, there was a political speech during the presidential campaign. We talk a lot about our work as parliamentarians, but it also involves conducting committee work and hearings, and finding ways to achieve the same goals using other vehicles. In the case we are considering, the committee's proposal is balanced and achieves the objective of monitoring, transparency and rigour set by the candidate who became President of the Republic. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] During the hearings conducted by the Law Commission, a former ethics officer indicated that many colleagues were returning an important part of their IRFM. Integrating these sums into the parliamentary allowance to tax them would be tantamount to treating them as acquired. That is an element to be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u210	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u211	I miss words to express my incomprehension with regard to the continuation of the IMFR's tax proposal, after the many – 42 interventions – intense and intense debates we have just had on this subject. I thought we had an agreement and that this resolution was going to be adopted quickly, but I see that things are going on. This shows either a profound misunderstanding of the purpose of the mandate costs – I am dubious on this point – or an attempt to legitimize the practices against which we are fighting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u212	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u213	Our objective here, if it should be recalled, is to ensure that the payment of mandate fees is properly used for the conduct of parliamentary work and cannot under any circumstances be used to supplement the personal income of parliamentarians. In fact, the payment of mandate expenses is in no way a supplementary income, contrary to what some seem to have considered in the past. Integrating the MFRI into the income tax calculation would imply that they were right and encourage others to have the same practices in the future. It is irresponsible to suggest that the MFRI can be treated as income.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u214	That's Macron's proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u215	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I will obviously vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u216	It's totally a sketch!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u217	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, you have decided to put on the table the subject of the IRFM and you have been elected by the French on the basis of Mr Macron's programme, which explicitly called for the taxing of this allowance. You were elected on the basis of this program. It is clear that there is a real problem of trust between public opinion and parliamentarians on these elements of remuneration. What can we take care of? How do we reimburse any expenses incurred in connection with our mandate? The way to answer these questions in clarity lies in fiscalization, but it must be borne in mind. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] Why don't you take over? For communication reasons! You say that you will be accused of raising the salaries of parliamentarians. You're tainted by communication! Have the courage to take on the program on which you were elected! I did not support this programme, that is the least one can say. I have fought it as hard as I could, with modest success, but I am prepared to do so in the programme on which you were elected. Let's go to the end, we can talk about transparency at that time and we will be understood by all the French. It's common law! Are you afraid of common law? Is he so hard on you?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u219	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u220	Are you afraid to explain whether BFMTV or Le Canard enchainé are calling you? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So assume, have a little courage! We must go to this field, because politics requires courage. And the courage would be to follow your program.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u221	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u222	Should elected officials be paid? This question, others have asked themselves before us. Compensation was not obvious: working for the public good could be free. This is not the case, and for at least two reasons. First, the parliamentary function should not be reserved for the caste of those drawing subsistence from other sources – the rent, the income from work – than the allowance paid. Secondly, not paying parliamentarians is a risk that they will be paid by others. We are working precisely on the conflict of interest, on everything that, by far or near, is related to corruption. If we are paid, then it is also that at all times the choice has been made to protect parliamentarians from the temptation of suitcases, even if that has not always been enough. Decent remuneration can limit temptation, and it can come quickly, especially when you are in the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u223	What an optimism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u224	By this I mean all the majorities, because it is more interesting to corrupt a Member of the majority than a Member of a minority group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u225	It's slippery ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u226	In order to put an end to the hypocrisy surrounding the IRFM, Emmanuel Macron proposed to tax this compensation. This will not be the first time during the discussion of this text that you will come back to a proposal that he made during the presidential campaign; I am thinking in particular of the blank criminal record and the incompatibilities with counselling activities. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the REM group]] On the amendments under discussion, the New Left Group will follow not the candidate Emmanuel Macron, but the majority La République en marche. Indeed, if we can put an end to this hypocrisy, we cannot do so by means of an indecent increase in our incomes, which would be multiplied by two. No one would understand that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u227	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u228	I would like to come back to the question of the MFRI as envisaged in candidate Macron's project. As our MODEM colleague pointed out, the text intended to tax both the parliamentary allowance and the representative allowance for mandate expenses. However, Madam seal keeper, you have just developed several arguments arguing that this would be a big mistake. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] There are two possible interpretations. Either the unpreparation of the program was such that you are now obliged to concede that it was a mistake, and I hope then that we will not find ourselves in the same case on too many subjects; the programme was well prepared, but then we find it difficult to understand why you would not agree with the amendments we have proposed, which are of common sense. As you are always very keen to claim Mr Macron's programme, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, why, on this point, are you moving away from the President of the Republic's proposal? This is a question that the opposition can legitimately ask, and to which it can legitimately expect a clear, precise and sincere answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u229	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u230	The opposition group The Republicans have a good game of highlighting the contradictions of the majority, and that is quite legitimate. At the same time, and we are a number of people who have said so, the National Assembly is not there to implement a President's agenda. If that were the case, it would be useless, and it would be enough to give the national council of the majority party or its political bureau the opportunity to make the laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u231	Or to cast lots, it would be the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u232	It seems to me that this is not what we want as a constitutional reform. We will therefore stick to our role: to advance the democratic debate by taking into account the views of the different sensitivities that represent the population, the people. On the other hand, what you are stressing is right, and it is quite indicative of the priorities that the Government and the majority have set themselves in this bill, which is no longer so symbolic, but will nevertheless be the result of an extraordinary sitting. It is contradictory to choose to put so much energy on these elements, of which everyone recognizes common sense, and about which it is legitimate to ask for clarification, and to deal less forcefully with other questions which, in our view, would really help to respond to the issues raised. For example, you raised the issue of the increase in allowances – because, for me, it is not compensation, it is compensation. It would be simple to rely on a scale of wages or allowances concerned from 1 to 20, and to increase all categories, including the lowest, if one of them is increased. That is what we are proposing in our amendments. Perhaps this will make you think and resolve your internal contradictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u233	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u234	I ask for a five-minute suspension of the sitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u235	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u236	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u237	I shall put to the vote Amendment No 249.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u238	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u239	After long hours of debate on this issue, I think we share the same view on the need for control: not only because this is the feeling of our fellow citizens, but also because exhibitionism – which we have been engaged in for a while – reinforces the impression that we would be chicken thieves, which is extremely unpleasant for an elected official. My amendment, which proposes a median solution between control by the Assembly and control by the tax administration, is based on the good faith of the parliamentarian in keeping his accounts and his ability to deliver them at any time to any authority that would randomly demand them. It seems to me that this would be a way out of our discussion by guaranteeing these two fundamental principles of the exercise of our mandates, namely, freedom and independence. I repeat the questions that Mrs Custody of the Seals has somewhat shunned: the expenditure control body will, it seems to me, have to give an opinion on the appropriateness of the expenditure, which raises a real problem for the free exercise of an elected office. What exactly will happen?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u240	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u241	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment removes us a lot from the system that we have retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u242	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u243	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u244	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u245	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u246	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 248.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u247	I regret that Amendment No 249 has not been adopted. I really believe that the transition to common law, to taxation on the income of public persons, as with any citizen, would solve the problems and dispel all suspicions. Since we remain in the system intended by the committee and the majority, we would like to amend paragraph 4, so that the Bureau of the Assemblies can define the type of eligible expenditure, the conditions for their taking over and, of course, the conditions of control, since it is absolutely necessary. It will therefore be up to the offices of the assemblies to draw up the rules, since the law will not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u249	Same opinion as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u250	So unfavorable. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u251	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u252	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u253	Allow me, Madam Keeper of the Seals, to formulate a subsidiary question, which could no doubt be asked after any amendment has been discussed. You are proposing a new regulation of the IRFM in order to promote greater transparency – which I agree with – and at the same time you are advocating administrative simplification, the pursuit of standards and regulations and the efficiency of public spending. A Matignon circular even requires departments to remove or simplify two standards each time a new one is added – this is the "one for two" principle. My question is therefore simple, Madam Minister: what simplification are you going to propose in return for this text?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u254	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u255	Mr Yves Jégo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u256	I confess that I do not understand these adverse views: how would this pose a problem of having a clear definition of what can be taken over under the MFRI?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u257	That's what the text says!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u258	The amendment too! I know from experience, for years, that there has been much uncertainty about what can be taken care of under the MFRI. The French are very attentive to our debate, and they must be assured that the parliamentarians we are will be supervised by a guide as protective of their good faith as possible, specifying what can be taken care of and what will not be taken care of. We have seen, in other countries, leaks of parliamentary bills covering the chronicle and causing absolute scandals for lack of a sufficiently precise definition of what could be included in the allowance. We would benefit from making this clear in the text: we are never precise enough about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u259	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 543.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u260	This precise amendment aims to clarify the list of eligible costs for the payment of mandate fees: if we want absolute transparency so that the French regain confidence in national representation, let us ourselves be clear and precise in the definition of these eligible costs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u261	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u262	This amendment is satisfied with the wording adopted by the committee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u264	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u265	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u266	I maintain that the drafting of the committee is insufficiently precise to guarantee the effectiveness of the principles of freedom and independence. Since we have chosen to legislate on a subject which I have had the opportunity to say earlier that it may have been subject to the free will of the assemblies, let us go to the end and write explicitly in the text that the arrangements for taking over or reimbursing the expenses of the mandate will guarantee the freedom of action and judgment of the parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u268	Unfavorable opinion. I wonder how to judge a parliamentarian's freedom of action and judgment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u269	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u270	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u271	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u272	I would like to reply to the rapporteur's questions: either the check consists of a simple recording of statements of costs produced by each Member – in which case one can question his interest – or the nature of the expenditure and the fact that each of them corresponds to a heading considered to be part of the mandate costs. For my part, I do not want control to be about judging the appropriateness of our spending. I will not give examples, because some of my colleagues have already done so and I find it relatively risky, if not dangerous, to expose these things to our fellow citizens, who have no idea of all the expenses involved in a parliamentary mandate. But it turns out that, in the course of our mandate, we are constantly making expenses, which we ourselves consider appropriate. Is it possible that the control that will be put in place will lead to disqualifying some of our expenses, to say that some of them do not have to be?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u273	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u274	This is a real problem, and I assure you that, on this point, the drafting of the article is weak. The rapporteur, however, is going to vote for the exercise of democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u275	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u276	It seemed clear to me that the office would not judge the advisability of the expense. From now on, it is for you, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u277	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support Amendment No. 346.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u278	This amendment is in line with that of my colleague Arnaud Viala, and I would like to stress this issue in my turn, even though I have the feeling that it is annoyed to you, the rapporteur, or that you are not listening to me. The principle of parliamentary freedom of action and choice is important enough to be recalled. I am a new elected representative, like many of you, and I believe it is up to each one to take responsibility. I tend to think that the multiplication of such rules could lead to a total demilitarization of the parliamentarian. I note, moreover, some inconsistency in your remarks. One of our colleagues in the La République en marche group said earlier, about the control of attendance, that it was up to the voters to decide. Why would it not be the same for expenditure control? It seems to me that it is first of all in front of his constituents that an absentee Member, or a Member who has misdisposed the money for his or her office, will be held accountable. You show some form of schizophrenia by referring certain questions to the voters' assessment, and others, not. My amendment, like that of my colleague Arnaud Viala, will alert you to a development which we are concerned about and which you are promoting, namely the increasing porosity between the legislative power and all kinds of other powers of control, including administrative ones. Finally, it seems to me that our proposal is healthier for those in the administration who will be responsible for these refunds. Indeed, we cannot ask an officer to judge the appropriateness of the expenses incurred by a Member, because that would place him in a position that is not his own.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u279	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u280	The fundamental principle of the freedom of action of parliamentarians must be re-emphasized and you should take the trouble of reaching agreement on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u282	I hear your argument, but the fact that the Assembly, by decision of its bureau, determines very precisely the expenditure which is authorised and which is not, does not seem to me to conflict with the freedom of action of the Member. We need to regulate these issues – and we all know why. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u284	Same opinion. Mr Pradie, you spoke of incoherence. Let me turn the argument to you. Less than a quarter of an hour ago, the group you belong to asked for the taxization of the MFRI, a provision that would have placed you under the control of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u285	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u286	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] And now you are claiming the freedom of action of the parliamentarian, even though you are told that it is the office of the assembly that will be your regulator. I find that somewhat inconsistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u287	We don't want him to judge the opportunity of spending! You don't want to understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u288	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 212.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u289	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u290	I have before me an amendment No 39 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 654. Mr José Evrard has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u291	Why make it simple when you can do complicated things to control the use of the IRFM? It is on this way of exercising control and transparency that I want to draw the attention of Members. The meaning of this amendment is summarized as follows: Let us avoid complicating the use of the IRFM and let us make it simple, without calling into question the ethics of transparency. That is why we propose to add the following sentence to paragraph 6 of Article 7: "The parliamentary ethics body may, as part of this review, request the presentation of invoices for all warrant fees that have not been paid by credit card, electronic transfer, automatic debit or cheque drawn from a bank account opened by each Member and senator, and reserved exclusively for the management of his or her mandate fees. » It is normal for an invoice to be kept for any settlement in cash, so that the body responsible for parliamentary ethics can verify its accountability to the list of eligible expenses as mandate fees. Conversely, such archiving is not necessary for expenses that are traceable by a movement registered by a banking institution from a current account opened by each parliamentarian and specifically dedicated to the management of his or her mandate fees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u292	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u293	In our view, this amendment) does not call into question the necessary transparency. It intends to contribute to administrative simplification, which the State is also seeking in its exercise of power.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u294	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendment No. 654.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u295	As I said earlier, since we have a deontologist, use his expertise, experience and skills. To give the Members the means to do the work for which they were elected, without abuse and without cheating, let us draw up the precise list of eligible expenses. Thus, there is no danger of being wrong, nor any excuse either, since the expense will enter or not enter the list established by the ethics officer. Moreover, an annual random check by drawing lots of 5 or 10 per cent of elected officials by the same deontologist would be a good solution to avoid misinterpretations or even temptations in some. Another remark about personal enrichment, which has been discussed on several occasions. It seems to me that there is, to prevent this risk, a High Authority which counts between the starting and the arrival fortunes. If we multiply the control measures, how useful will this body be? We want to increase the number of ex post checks instead of considering parliamentarians as responsible persons, perfectly capable of keeping accounts, keeping accounting records, but above all responsible to their fellow citizens and voters. Let us reform this IRFM, but let us frame it upstream, instead of once again putting suspicion on parliamentarians. The solution I propose would have the merit of being effective and easily applicable, without any additional costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u296	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u297	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion on the amendment and on the sub-amendment. With regard to the amendment, it seems to us first of all that it falls outside the scope of the law, but above all that it presents a risk of a contrario. One could indeed consider, by reading it, that no invoice is required for all non-cash payments, which, I imagine, is not the intention of its authors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u298	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u299	Same opinion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u300	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u301	The purpose of the scheme adopted in committee is to bring mandate costs as close as possible to the justification of professional costs. However, a bank statement, such as a bank card ticket, is not an accounting document that can be used as proof of invoice, such as those that our fellow citizens have to produce to justify their professional expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u302	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u303	Mr President, I have just read a dispatch from Agence France-Presse, which was published at the beginning of the afternoon, informing us that a meeting of the Bureau of our assembly is scheduled for 2 August. The following topics are on the agenda: retirement, unemployment, mandate fees and ease of transport for former Members of Parliament. This means that the office will meet when the law has just been passed...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u304	It will not even have been voted on, it will still be the subject of a joint joint committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u305	That's right, she'll be in CMP! The law has not yet been passed, and the office of our assembly will already be considering the issue of mandate fees! An office which, moreover, is not even pluralistic and has only members of your majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u306	It's a puppet theater!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u307	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group.]] It is really an unacceptable abuse of power that must be denounced!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u308	Mrs Genevard, I would like to clarify this meeting of the Bureau and the question of mandate fees. It was true that the law could not be promulgated before that meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u309	It won't even be voted, it'll be in CMP!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u310	I am referring to the enactment of the law, Mr. Gosselin, because it is once enacted that it comes into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u311	And I'm talking about parliamentary work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u312	It is absolutely abnormal for the office to put pressure on our work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u313	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Let me finish, Mr. Gosselin. What will be decided at this meeting, as was decided for the Vice-Presidents, will be temporary. It is up to you to reach an agreement with the current Bureau of the Assembly to resolve this difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u314	That's not true! The ball is on your side!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u315	Let us return to the vote on Amendment No 39 and Subamendment No 654.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u316	Mr Gosselin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u317	I would like to refer to the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Rule 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure of this House on the smooth running of our debates. Our colleague Annie Genevard asked a substantive question about the organisation of our debates. You answered on one point, Mr. Chairman, saying that it is up to us to participate in the office. But whether or not we were part of the office is only a secondary problem. The problem that I think is essential is that on Tuesday, at the very time when the Joint Joint Committee, of which I am a member, is convened to see if the text that we are considering will find the full agreement of senators; and even as the Conference of Presidents that met yesterday placed on the agenda of our Thursday sitting the final reading, or consideration of the text of the CMP, of these two bills; The problem, I say, is that at the same time, the Bureau of the Assembly, which is not pluralistic – but, I repeat, this is another question – is meeting to examine provisions that we are voting on, or to decide on their provisional application! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] What, then, is this organization of the National Assembly, which is trampling not only on the work we are doing, but also – undoubtedly, in the eyes of the majority – on pluralism? I'm waiting for an explanation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u318	I'll give you some, Mr. Gosselin. I have already responded to your first point by stressing the temporary nature of the mechanism until the enactment of the law, since the 15th Parliament has been subject, until now and until proven otherwise, to the same rules as the 14th Parliament. We will now be able to resume the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u319	Temporary until the enactment of the law that will take place in August? That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u320	We do not respect the work of the Assembly! You raise your hand when you're asked!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u321	That's where the majority are today!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u322	You don't even have to come anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u323	I have before me an amendment No 263, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 637. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u324	We have made the choice of pragmatism and the economy of means by referring control – which I believe will be of quality – to the office of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u325	Who will set it? By the office!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u326	My concern – which I think we can all share – is that we are not told that we are in one another. The amendment tabled by the New Left Group is intended to ensure that the method of organising control will be transparent and well known to the public. Perhaps the Bureau's decisions are already published. However, the situation is very special in that we refer to the National Assembly office. For this reason, I would like to be assured that the decision taken on the method of controlling parliamentary mandate fees will be disseminated as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u327	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion on Amendment No. 263 and to support Subamendment No. 637.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u328	Favourable opinion on the amendment. This is the result of our discussions in committee. My sub-amendment is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u329	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u330	Favourable opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u331	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u332	There is the scum of days and agendas, the technical questions, but there is, above all, the substance. But the bottom...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u333	Let's touch him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u334	Not only are we touching him, you're right, but the goals are being met.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u335	Ah! Beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u336	I would remind you, once again, of what we have done in the last few hours, in anticipation of the vote on Article 7. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Let us sum up: we have extended the cases of ineligibility for fault and for serious breach of probity and citizenship, reinforced the concept of conflict of interest, ruled out family jobs, given new guarantees to our employees, restated and justified our mandate costs. Is this not leading to new practices? [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I really believe that in a few moments we will be able to rejoice, both of us, that all these first objectives will be fulfilled, and will be fulfilled in the long term, to the benefit of the transparency and credibility of political action!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u337	Self-satisfaction is what you do best!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u338	Parliament becomes decorative!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u339	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u340	I would like to be clarified: why do we hold several consecutive night sessions? After learning this morning on the radio that, anyway, the text would be voted and that, after all, there was not even a need for MPs to vote on the law, we are now learning that the Bureau will make a decision on the IRFM without even waiting for the meeting of the CMP or the final result of the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u341	It's temporary!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u342	I really don't know what we're serving! I understand that the Government's objective is to put Parliament completely under control and to have a majority who alone takes decisions, with a bureau composed of 100 per cent of its members. I am sorry, but I sincerely believe that Parliament's rights are completely and completely violated in this House! I ask the majority to become aware of what an opposition is and to respect it a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u343	What a movie!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u344	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u345	[[Claims on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I am indeed discovering this implausible information, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u346	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u347	It's a first!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u348	I maintain that she is implausible. We agree that the Bureau is responsible for implementing this piece of legislation, aren't we?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u349	He won't be ready!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u350	However, it will implement a piece of legislation that is not voted. The CMP did not pass and the Constitutional Council did not pronounce itself – we informed yesterday that we would appeal to it. On what basis do we work? In these circumstances, indeed, we have no time to waste here: the law no longer serves anything. Madam Keeper of the Seals, ask the Prime Minister to come and resort to the blocked vote, you will save time; It'll be over and we won't talk about it anymore. All these debates are of no use! I repeat: we are implementing a text on which discussions have not been concluded, the CMP has not taken place and the Constitutional Council has not taken a decision on the appeal to be filed. You tell us in substance: "It doesn't matter: all this, we don't care, we're going to implement these texts. » [[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] I ask Rugy's president to come and explain himself. Perhaps the press has published a bad piece of information: I am ready to hear everything, to accept everything, but it deserves at least an explanation. In order to remove this ambiguity, Mr President, I propose that you grant us a suspension of the sitting. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The President of the National Assembly must come and explain himself. Such a thing never happened. This is not the contempt of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, but the complete disregard of Parliament and the law! We cannot function in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u351	It's a movie!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u352	Your remarks are Sibyllins, Mr. Jacob: you are asking me to grant you a sitting suspension. But this one is right, since you are the group president. I obviously accept your request: the sitting is suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u353	[[The sitting was suspended at 17.05 p.m. and resumed at 17.50 p.m. with Mr François de Rugy in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u354	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that, prior to the suspension of the sitting, President Jacob called the Presidency on a press article...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u355	A dispatch from Agence France-Presse!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u356	... or a dispatch from a very serious news agency, but which could have been misinterpreted. I want things to be said as clearly as possible. A meeting of the Bureau is convened for Wednesday, 2 August, which is quite normal. She was summoned in due course, as was the one that took place last week. It is the regular and normal operation of our assembly to convene the office. An agenda was sent to all its members, to which this dispatch refers. It is extremely clear that, if the bureau is to take different decisions on matters relating to the organization of our assembly, it will not take any decisions on the subject, which is currently being debated in our House, of the representative allowance for mandate expenses, neither at this meeting nor before the end of the consideration of the bill by the two assemblies and of the legislative procedure, whatever its end.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u357	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u358	If the Joint Joint Committee succeeds, everyone has understood that this bill can be finally adopted before the end of our special session. If this is not the case, legislative work will resume at the October ordinary session. Of course, at this stage, I do not know how long it will take for the final examination of this text. There will then undoubtedly be a referral to the Constitutional Council, which will decide before it can be promulgated. The Bureau will take a decision on any aspect of the law that would affect the National Assembly and its Bureau once the law has been promulgated, regardless of the term.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u359	It's obvious! They knew it very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u360	We may wish it to be more or less close – it is part of the political debate – but, as far as we are concerned, we will respect this timetable, which is not yet very precise – so we will accommodate it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u361	Perfect! That's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u362	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u363	Mr President, we take note of your remarks, which will reassure all Members who were not concerned about the inclusion of this item on the Bureau's agenda one day, but about the anticipation of the provisions of the law, which we must not do. It is not only the practice, but also a sign of respect for our institution. That said, the dispatch was just taking over the agenda that you yourself presented, since, in convening the bureau meeting, the fact that the use of the MFRI would be put on the agenda was well mentioned. The intervention of our colleagues in the Republican Group was therefore not completely unfounded.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u364	Thank you for saying it so nicely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u365	It also allows me to return, with one word, to the debate we had before the sitting was suspended. I remind my colleagues in the running Republic Group that we are not going from shadow to light. It is written in the dispatch that "since 2015, had been defined a general list of authorized and prohibited expenses and MPs had to certify its proper use on honour". Let's not pretend there's nothing. People listen to us, this debate is particularly followed. I would not want them to believe that, until now, the House was the Bronx, that we could do everything and anything, that parliamentarians used the IRFM only for personal purposes, that they doubled their salary and that this supplementary allowance was not even taxed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u366	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u367	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the LR group]] This suggests that morals and practices were particularly harmful. But that was not the case. I would like you to be aware in your speeches that you are not revolutionizing our institution, but that you are simply changing it, which we agree with. Let's not let it be thought that before, it was everything and anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u368	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 477.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u369	The purpose of this amendment is to limit the cumulation of the remuneration received by persons holding several local mandates to the amount of the parliamentary allowance, compared with one and a half times that amount at present. It also amends the provisions applicable to municipal, intercommunal, departmental, regional and assemblies of Guyana and Martinique.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u370	[[Mr Sacha Houlié replaces Mr François de Rugy in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u371	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 653.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u372	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u373	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 459.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u374	It is an amendment of precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u375	Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u376	The purpose of this amendment is to provide that the President of the Republic may apply to the High Authority for the transparency of public life – HATVP – not for a certificate, but for information on whether or not a person whose appointment as a member of the Government is envisaged complies with his or her declaratory obligations. This information shall be transmitted by the President of the High Authority himself, prior to the appointment of the member of the Government. The aim is thus to standardize requests for information, taking into account the time constraints in which such requests are made.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u377	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u378	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u379	Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u380	I would like to take this opportunity to point out to Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. Members that the text therefore applies to members of the Government as well. The purpose of this amendment is to supplement Article 7b(a) by providing that the President of the Republic may request, in addition to providing information on compliance with the reporting obligations and a tax certificate concerning a person whose appointment is envisaged, an extract from Bulletin No. 2 of that person's criminal record. This amendment is the counterpart to the amendment to delete article 1 ter of the draft organic law tabled by the Government, which made the appointment of a member of the Government conditional on the verification of Bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record. We'll have an opportunity to come back at that time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u381	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u382	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u383	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u384	I confess that I do not fully understand this amendment and the reintroduction of Bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record, which has been very busy with Article 1. I would just like the minister to explain why this is no longer a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u385	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u386	We are not here as part of an ineligibility. It is simply a matter of giving the President of the Republic the opportunity to verify Bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record for possible future members of his government. This provision therefore does not have at all the same scope as the penalty of ineligibility provided for in Article 1, on which we have identified a risk of unconstitutionality. On the other hand, we prefer that this provision be introduced into the ordinary law, because it has no place in the organic law. That's the reason for this transfer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u387	Mr Laurent Furst, in support of Amendment No. 69, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u388	This article introduces an important provision since it allows the President of the Republic to request information on the property situation, interests and activities, the tax status of any person he intends to appoint to the Government. Such a provision is therefore very extensive and can concern everyone: it is sufficient that the President of the Republic pretends to wish to appoint that person to the Government. I will not try the current President of the Republic for any purpose, but a law is passed for a long time. No one knows who will be his successor. There is a real risk in this provision, because it is not sufficiently framed or bounded: considering appointing a person to the Government is vague. The President of the Republic may once say that he wishes to appoint an opponent to the Government and thus obtain a great deal of information about him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u389	Christian Jacob, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u390	Or Olivier Faure. In order to counter this situation and limit, if only a little, any possible risk, it would be desirable to provide for the publication in the Official Gazette within 15 days of the names of the persons on whom the President of the Republic has requested information.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u391	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u392	You're going to make an army of disappointed people! The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u393	It's a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u394	Reasonably, it appears to the Committee that this provision, which constitutes a genuine interference with the powers of composition of the Government, would undermine the separation of powers. It would also constitute an infringement of tax secrecy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u395	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u396	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u397	In addition to frustration, this provision could also undermine the right to privacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u398	The breach of privacy is to have information communicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u399	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u400	Did you follow the appointment of the Government? On social media, especially on Twitter, the names of almost all the people who had been the subject of a request from the various bodies, including HATVP, had fled. The phenomenon of frustration already exists. It is absolutely necessary to guarantee the fiscal secrecy of members of the opposition by preventing the President of the Republic from having full powers to verify the situation of everyone, including those of his opponents. We fully support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u401	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u402	I understand the intention of our colleague Furst. However, I would like to make another proposal, because its amendment is a problem. Imagine that the name of an opponent, or even a member of the majority, might come to enter the government without being finally appointed, appears in the Official Gazette: what would his fellow citizens think? That he has something to blame for, since, in the end, he did not join the Government. It would therefore become infamous not to have been detained after being approached. I therefore propose that any person whose appointment to the Government has been envisaged by the President of the Republic and by the Prime Minister be informed that his file has, for this reason, been forwarded to the President of the Republic. Such a provision would be healthier while avoiding the case you imagine, namely that of a President of the Republic who, looking at his opponents, would suggest that he wants to appoint them to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u403	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u404	This proposal is obviously interesting. I just want to reframe things. To avoid any trial of intent against anyone, I will simply refer to the past. The reminder may be painful, but we had a President of the Republic who made film stars listen. The man is deceitful. Such a system, which is totally exorbitant of ordinary law, cannot be established without a counterfire which limits it. It's impossible to stay there. Mr Faure's proposal seems particularly interesting to me, provided that it is framed in time: a deadline must be set. As adopted, the scheme is dangerous for democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u405	I have before me two amendments containing additional articles after Article 7 ter A. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u406	The purpose of this amendment is to raise the issue of transparency for the direct collaborators of ministers and secretaries of state. Indeed, thanks to various provisions put in place over time, the remuneration of both members of the Government and parliamentarians is known – that is a good thing. On the other hand, there is no information on the remuneration of those who directly assist the members of the Government and are their closest collaborators, i.e. members of the ministerial cabinets, even though they play a very important role, whether they are cabinet directors or other members of the cabinets. Today, the General Secretariat of the Government disseminates general information on a global envelope, which does not detail the remuneration of each member of the cabinet. As we know, this remuneration may be much higher than that of the ministers themselves. This is a point which, too, requires special attention. That is why this amendment aims to make public, every year, the amount of the remuneration of the chiefs of staff and advisers of all ministers and secretaries of state. Since we are debating transparency, let us dare to expand it beyond that which the executive power imposes on the legislature today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u407	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u408	The committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion, considering that any Member of Parliament can already question the ministers concerned by written question in order to obtain an answer which will be published in the Official Journal. This is what MP René Dosière did every year. If you consider that the answers are insufficient, I would remind you that the special rapporteurs of the Finance Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate have the power of control not only on the documents but also on the spot, provided for by the Finance Act. These devices are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u409	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u410	Unfavorable opinion, too. I remind you that the reporting obligations apply to all employees of ministerial offices, with the October 2013 Act stating that they must submit a declaration of heritage status. As for ministers' remuneration, it is known because it is public, as you have pointed out. It also seems to me that the Constitutional Council has censored a provision for the publication of the declaration of interests of senior officials. The situation would certainly be the same with regard to their heritage declaration, but perhaps this is not what you want: the purpose of your amendment is to publish their remuneration. Perhaps the Constitutional Council would censor such a provision for disproportionate harm. I am not sure, as I have already said, that I am expressing an opinion which is unfavourable to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u411	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u412	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u413	Transparency stops at the gates of power.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u414	It concerns only the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u415	It enters the Assembly, but as far as the ministers' collaborators are concerned, i.e. the members of the ministerial cabinets, the door is closed and locked. I think this question is essential, in particular because I asked in this House, on the basis of an article by the chained Duck,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u416	Don't read The Chained Duck.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u417	...a question that had given rise to debate. According to this article, over the last two years, employees of ministerial offices had seen their budget - I did not say their salaries - increase by 12%, while, at the same time, the budget of the municipalities was reduced as a matter of grief. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is obvious that transparency is needed in this area, especially since many cabinet employees are much better paid than the deputies and senators of the Republic who make the effort to be elected – they succeed from time to time. I am very surprised both by your ardent desire for absolute transparency when it comes to parliamentarians and by your desire never to open any door for greater transparency when it comes to those who have the most important power in this country, namely those who are really at the top of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u418	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u419	Madam rapporteur, if you are absolutely right to point out that René Dosière was asking written questions on the subject, you are aware that the number of questions that we have to ask is now limited. It's a first difficulty. There's a second, just as important. René Dosière regularly reported that he did not receive an answer in 80% of the cases to the written questions he asked specifically on this subject. That is why I tabled this amendment. I agree with you that if the device that you mentioned and that René Dosière used was operational, it would be unnecessary to include this provision in the law. But there is a real taboo, as Laurent Furst rightly pointed out. As this text addresses many points, it ignores only one, the remuneration of the direct advisers of ministers, who are better paid than ministers and, of course, than parliamentarians, including the Speaker of the National Assembly. This question should be asked seriously, because it is important. All our colleagues, including those in the running Republic, who are the majority, can understand that there is a problem here. If you want to be virtuous, we must vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u420	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u421	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u422	The purpose of this amendment is to limit the category of persons who may take up the functions of Minister or Secretary of State by prohibiting the appointment of a person with dual nationality. The first of the reasons for this amendment is the debate we had yesterday on conflicts of interest. It is obvious that a member of the Government takes part in decisions which have consequences for France's position vis-à-vis other countries, possibly that of which a holder of dual nationality is also a national. The second justification emerges from our discussions on transparency, which we are currently implementing: dual nationality poses a problem of transparency for the person in question, since elements of his financial or fiscal situation may be the responsibility of the other country of which he is also a national.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u423	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u424	The committee has, of course, given an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u425	Why, "of course"?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u426	"Of course," because, while French nationality is of course necessary to be a minister, this condition is not exclusive and I do not see how it should become so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u427	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u428	Disadvantaged because of the principle of equality. In addition, only the Constitution defines the conditions under which a person may be appointed to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u429	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u430	[["Ah! » on several benches of the REM group]] I would like to speak mainly to our colleagues in the Republic Group on the move. For many weeks, ladies and gentlemen, you have explained that the left-right divide is no longer of interest. However, with this amendment, we are in the middle of it. There are two visions of the Republic: a vision of the right, expressed at the moment, and a vision of the left, which I will express. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, REM and MODEM groups]] How can we, in this Chamber, accept the very idea that a minister with dual nationality cannot perform his duties as a full French minister? We could cite the names of recent ministers who have been fully, 100 per cent, in the service of the Republic. How can we allow the very suspicion that a double sincerity would have led them to serve both the French Republic and a foreign State? How can we imagine it? [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the REM group]] There is a right and a left in this House: this is an amendment that proves it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u431	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u432	I am quite shocked to discover such an amendment. It is completely unacceptable to separate citizens into categories. Our colleagues in the Republican Group speak of widespread suspicion, but their amendment reflects a suspicion based on nationality, especially when, by birth, our citizens have another. I am particularly shocked by these kinds of amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the NG group]] I agree with Mr Faure: we have met binational ministers who have served France perfectly. Such discrimination would therefore be unfounded.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u433	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u434	I had no doubt that my amendment would provoke such reactions. Let me return to the operative part of this amendment. I don't accept that you give me intentions that I don't have.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u435	So, what are your intentions?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u436	This amendment does not have to be described as an amendment to the right, to the left or to the centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u437	It's a right-wing amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u438	We are looking at a text in which we define rules in order to prevent conflicts of interest and increase transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u439	When a minister is French, he does not serve any interests other than those of France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u440	However, for a person to make decisions on behalf of a government, binationality may be a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u441	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u442	There's no understatement behind that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u443	On the contrary, the implication is clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u444	At the same time, we are in the process of defining certain rules of transparency that require French administrations to produce information on the situation of the members of the Government, since we are talking about them. However, if an individual has two nationalities, his situation with regard to the rules we define may escape the control of the French administrations. There is therefore a risk of a breach of equality between this person and other members of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u445	That is not the subject of your amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u446	I do not accept any further insinuations about my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u447	No one applauds!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u448	[[Protests on several benches of the LR group]] The right voted with the far right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u449	The Commission has deleted Article 7bb. I have before me a number of identical amendments, Nos 22, 78, 131, 250, 284, 404, 405, 406 and 407, to restore it. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u450	The aim is to re-establish article 7 ter B in the following wording: "A decree in the Council of State defines the conditions for the payment of the costs of reception and representation of members of the Government, within the limits which it determines and upon presentation of evidence of such costs. » [[Protests on several benches in the REM group]] In short, we want to introduce a parallelism of forms: the executive must have the same rules that it imposes on the legislature today in this bill. We know that there may be a number of drifts – at random, on a trip to Las Vegas, or that kind of thing... Hospitality may be a problem. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Here too, exemplaryness and transparency must be the rules. Our amendment is fully in line with that. You yourself considered that these values should prevail: we will be able to verify at the moment whether they will be imposed on the members of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u451	I call Mr Marleix to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u452	In its great benevolence, the Government proposes to monitor the operating costs of parliamentarians. In its wisdom, therefore, the Senate had adopted – unanimously, I would remind you once again, Madam Keeper of the Seals – this Article 7 ter B, which provides that the Government applies these provisions to itself. In committee, the rapporteur explained to us that there was already an internal control system based on financial controllers in each department. That is quite true, but unfortunately their work has not prevented a number of scandals in the past. Las Vegas was mentioned, but one could also talk about a cigar case or a questionable use of the aircraft made available to the Government. We would benefit from increased transparency in the reception and operating costs of the firms. I am also thinking of the practice of giving a cash envelope to members of the Government when travelling abroad, which may seem of a different age to our fellow citizens. We reject double standards: the same transparency must apply to the executive and legislative branches. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As in committee, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I have no doubt that you will oppose the principle of separation of powers. I reply in advance to this argument, if you will allow me: why would the separation of powers not prevent the legislator, in Article 3, from prohibiting ministers from recruiting members of their families if it prevents us, in Article 7bb, from increasing a little more transparency on their representation expenses? This argument does not hold.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u453	I call Mr Damien Abad to support Amendment No. 131.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u454	Like my colleagues, I call for equal treatment and a balance of demands. You cannot invoke the principle of separation of powers, which does not at all imply a general tightness of the organic separation between the different political powers. In a logic of balancing requirements, we therefore consider it important to adopt these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u455	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 250.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u456	I tabled this amendment in tribute to René Dosière, a Benedictine Member who, for many years, has posed with great obstinacy – The rapporteur spoke about this earlier – written questions to state administrations and ministries for a number of answers. These answers, much expected, were sometimes very dilatory; In any case, they were never concrete. In order to help the rapporteur and the Government to be virtuous, it seems interesting to us to propose that, from now on, a decree in the Council of State should define "the conditions for the payment of the costs of reception and representation of members of the Government". Transparency, which crosses the main gates of 126 rue de l'Université and 15 ter rue de Vaugirard, must also pass through the doors of each ministry. In doing so, we will probably avoid asking many written questions that will remain unanswered. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] René, if you listen to us, it is for you that we will vote – I hope – for this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u457	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to support the identical amendment No. 284.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u458	The arguments in favour of this amendment have already been extensively developed. Everyone remembers that, in 2007 or 2008, a seal guard had demanded excessive budget extensions for their reception fees. It is therefore legitimate that the transparency required for parliamentarians should also be ensured for all members of the Government, who must participate in a coherent and comprehensive manner in restoring the link of trust between elected officials and the population. That is why our amendment No.284 is aimed at re-establishing the clause 7 ter B that the Senate had included in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u459	On the identical amendments Nos 22, 78, 131, 250, 284, 404, 405, 406 and 407, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public ballot. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 404.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u460	I agree with everything that has already been said. Of course, we associate ourselves with the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u461	Amendments Nos 405, 406 and 407 are defended. Mr Yves Jégo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u462	I wish to testify as a former member of the Government. In fact, Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, these amendments will help to protect the members of the Government, because, at present, the most blurry reigns and the ministers are forced to take on things that they have not necessarily decided and that can take them into turmoil. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments are part of a broader debate, which concerns all those who make public money. One day, in this House, we will probably have to think about the remuneration and benefits given to the senior officials of our country, what justifies the means at their disposal: it is also public money! It is not because one is appointed that one is more virtuous than those who are elected. From the moment we want to control the elected representatives, which we believe is legitimate, we must also open this door. These identical amendments seem to me to be healthy and protective. They are in line with our duty, Madam Keeper of the Seals, not to encroach on the separation of powers, but rather to ensure that public money is used properly, which is Parliament's role – I am sure that the members of the Committee on Finance will approve of me. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Really, we must not drift: let us not forget that we must treat everything! If this bill deals only with the fate of parliamentarians, in response to a political episode that we have experienced during the last presidential campaign and that we all have in mind, if we do not open a broader debate, then we will be next to the plaque and we will not have fulfilled our role. The adoption of these identical amendments would show that we do not want to stop there, that we want to go further, that we are on our way to this more virtuous Republic that we all call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u463	Ladies and gentlemen, the most attentive of you will have noted that I have granted Mr Jégo the privilege of speaking before the rapporteur and the guardian of the seals. On this series of identical amendments, I also have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u464	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Unfavorable. We have already referred to this subject at length in committee, where we have rejected a similar amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u465	It's for René, the rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u466	You don't want to control the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u467	The committee has not changed its mind, for the reasons I will explain to you. Expenses related to the performance of departmental duties – hospitality, hospitality and travel – are covered by the department's budget. This is absolutely not an advance on the current MFRI model. The budgetary appropriations thus spent may be subject to scrutiny, in particular by the special rapporteurs of the Finance Committees, therefore by Parliament. We therefore believe that the current arrangements are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u468	No, that's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u469	It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u470	Double, double, double, double, double, double, double, double, double,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u471	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u472	Unfavorable. I am quite consistent, since I had already hoped that the rules on the recruitment of ministerial collaborators would not be included in the law. I explained to you yesterday that the decree of June 14, 2017 contained even broader and more in-depth provisions than those of this bill to prohibit the recruitment of family collaborators by ministers. In the same vein, I believe that the principle of separation of powers prevents us from adopting this provision here. Moreover, I would like to point out that the total expenditure of a ministry is retraced in the budget documents and that these are verified by the Court of Auditors with great precision and rigour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u473	And sincerity!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u474	Yes, you will find all the necessary elements for this purpose in the documents of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u475	What about cash?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u476	I would also like to point out that, as the rapporteur has just pointed out, the rapporteurs of the Finance Committees of the two Assemblies have access to all the documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u477	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u478	Madam Commissioner, you have responded to the question of monitoring, and we all agree that, in the context of the budgetary procedure, the rapporteurs monitor the effectiveness of the expenditure incurred. That's not what we're talking about, but prevention,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u479	Trust!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u480	... by proposing to fix by decree in the Council of State, that is, by respecting our normative order, the conditions and ceilings for the organization of these events. Let's not be wrong. There has been too much debate in the country, sometimes fed by people who wanted to question elected officials, including new elected officials, so that at the end of the discussion on the restoration of trust, we can avoid addressing this issue. We can very well find a consensus among ourselves, not only with regard to the monitoring of parliamentarians, but also with regard to provisions to prevent any suspicion of a member of the Government tomorrow. We therefore agree with the approach taken by several Members, in particular by Mrs Untermaier, who has just recalled the scope of the identical amendments before us. [[Applause on a few benches of the NG and LR groups]] I wish, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that you could change your position. If our public life is to evolve, it must move towards greater transparency for parliamentarians, but also for ministers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u481	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u482	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u483	It is indeed a rather interesting idea of the separation of powers: if I am the reasoning of the keeper of seals, when the Government proposes to review the rules applicable to the running costs of deputies, there is no problem of separation of powers, whereas if by chance the deputies decide to review the rules of operation of the expenses of receiving ministers, it is an infringement of the separation of powers. All this seems to me to be quite legally confused, especially since, as the amendment is drafted, Parliament would not itself determine these rules, but would give the executive power to define, by means of a decree in the Council of State, the conditions for taking charge of the reception costs: it would be belt and straps. From the point of view of the separation of powers, therefore, your argument is not admissible. Secondly, as David Habib said very well, there is a difference between ex post control of expenditure, which allows us to know, through the rapporteurs, how the money was consumed, and the ex ante determination of the rules for the ordering of expenditure, by Parliament and then by the executive. The whole process is therefore very complementary and I do not understand why you invoke ex post control of the expenditure to prohibit setting rules at the beginning. The reasoning and explanations are exactly the same as those put forward by my colleagues about the expenses incurred by Members of Parliament under the MFRI. I therefore propose that you vote in favour of these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u484	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u485	This debate shows once again that the reasoning is totally asymmetric: in fact, as we can see, the executive branch is in the process of disaggregating the situation. Our modern democracies are governed by the main principles of separation but also of balance of powers. However, once again, while we are fully in this philosophy of balance of powers by asking that what applies to the legislative power apply in the same way to the executive power, you are, let me say, resorting to censure invoking the existence of ex post control. Madam rapporteur, I challenge you to examine the Court of Auditors' reports in detail: you will find that it is extremely rare for the Court to take up the ministerial expenditure allocated to the operation of the firms. Moreover, René Dosière, whom you mentioned earlier, had clearly raised this issue, which he described as a dead end requiring legislative development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u486	It's a chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u487	But here we are. I therefore do not understand why, as we approach the issue, these identical amendments could not be adopted. Your arguments are pretty weak.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u488	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u489	This double standard is not acceptable. This is really all the controls for us, for Parliament, and none for the Government. This asymmetry, our compatriots will quickly seize it. Transparency is necessary, and we are subject to it. This is a requirement in a modern democracy. It meets the expectations of our fellow citizens that we must not disappoint. But it's a one-way street: everyone will understand that Parliament – MPs and senators – is making the cost of a great inquisition and that others are exonerating themselves from it. I hope that René Dosière will still be able – but I am probably very naive – to murmur to the consciences of each other, without the gazelle's modesty mentioned earlier, and that the majority group, which holds the key in this matter, will dare. Dare, let go, do public health work and allow us to be equal and balanced!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u490	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u491	Once again, these amendments are revealing. The least we can say is that legal reasoning is confused and that political reasoning is false. Indeed, what all French people will see, if they are still interested in our debates after several days when we talked about details instead of focusing on the essentials, is that what is valid for parliamentarians is not for the Government or a fortiori for the Head of State. It is simply unbearable in view of the political situation we are living in and of the affairs which, for several decades, have glorified the Fifth Republic. It reveals more than anything else. Ms. Keeper of the Seals stated earlier that there had been no retro-pedaling, that the Government had not changed its option. This means that, since the beginning, the option was to pass a law pointing at parliamentarians, including the IRFM and the parliamentary reserve, in an emergency such as to require a special session. It is finally quite complementary to Emmanuel Macron's hyper-presidentialist vision and to what was revealed during the Congress: he is embarrassed by Parliament; The aim of this law is to weaken the latter and to designate him as the sole person responsible for the problems of public moralisation before our fellow citizens. It's abnormal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u492	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u493	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u494	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u495	We are living in a new period of government. In reality, we have no reproach to make with regard to the exercise of power: there are no known personal scandals, there is nothing to hide.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u496	What about Danone? The yogurt is frelated!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u497	This is therefore the ideal time to ensure that transparency can interfere in the highest spheres of the state, to restore confidence between the French and political power. But we will certainly not be able to do this with some of the IRFM-related things. Do you know what shockes the French? It happened that a minister attended a stage of the Tour de France in the Pyrenees and that evening he attended a football game at the Stade de France. These are the kinds of things that deeply shock the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u498	And Danone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u499	And Penicaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u500	He wasn't a sports minister – I won't mention anyone. We are clearly at the top of the state. In addition to the ministers, all the employees and operating costs are a source of questions, because we are faced with extraordinary nebulas and major financial amounts. I wish that this assembly could be useful, that we were not just a decorative assembly, that we were not content to be there to express a few points of view, but never to be heard. There comes a time when the link between the French and the executive must be re-established.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u501	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u502	This will be the case when you have opened the doors of transparency regarding the means of operation at the highest summit of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u503	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u504	Since Monday, something strange has happened: suddenly, the principle of the separation of powers only works in one sense. You had already succeeded in instrumentalizing the National Assembly; You are even now able to implement the Constitution. I propose that you christen this principle as follows: the principle of protection of the Government and the infallible executive. At least it'll be clear to everyone. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] But when I look at the majority and Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, I tell you: Be careful! The risk exists, after having set up a political communication operation, that the French take you seriously. In this case, there may be a lot of disappointment and the next day will be very difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u505	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u506	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u507	I don't understand why it's going on. We all agree that it is useful and necessary to be transparent and to provide the necessary proofs to be honest. For three days, I've been saying that when you don't have to blame yourself, it's coming from the source. But I do not understand why what flows from the source is not applicable to government officials. [[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the LR group]] I therefore have an honest proposal to make in order to circumvent the obstacle of the separation of powers: it is that the guard of seals should take over the parliamentary amendment and make it a governmental amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u508	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u509	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u510	It will thus take responsibility for applying to its own government what the Assembly decides to apply to Parliament. It's as simple as that. It seems to me that everyone agrees with the objective of making public opinion see that this renewed, renovated Parliament – we will see in the long term how each other behaves – has restored confidence. So it has to be done on all floors. And then, we will continue to tell you that we must not be limited to the political field, but also to the business world, the financial world and the connivances that may exist between the two.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u511	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u512	On this issue, we will not let go. We understand that this will not be done in this text, but we will not let go on the need to restore ethics, in the interests of the people and employees we represent. I still haven't digested yogurt:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u513	Thank you, Mr. Jumel.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u514	... last week, the Minister of Labour gave us lessons on employees' rights, while her example was not at the meeting about Danone's stock options.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u515	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u516	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u517	You wanted to call these amendments a tribute to René Dosière. As for us, we hesitated very much to call this law: "Hommage à François Fillon".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u518	You've made a triumph!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u519	Thanks for coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u520	Not everyone's Frank Dubosc!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u521	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u522	I shall take up two or three points put forward by Mrs and Mr. Members of Parliament. Perhaps you will be of a different opinion, but it does not seem to me that there is any parallelism between a minister and a parliamentarian. To begin with, the minister is at the head of an administration, unlike the parliamentarian, who works in his assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u523	He's employing collaborators!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u524	Of course, he is the employer of his collaborator, but the minister is at the head of an administration, it is not the same situation. As such, all of his department's expenditures are justified, subject to the rules of public compatibility and controlled by the financial controller. So I don't see where the loopholes could be.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u525	Blue cards!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u526	Let me say something about the guard of seals, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u527	I'm sorry, but I don't have a blue card for the ministry; I only have my personal blue card.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u528	There's some in the cabinets!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u529	No doubt I'm misinformed. Furthermore, if you will allow me to conclude, I would remind you that the Assembly is voting on the Government's budget and is monitoring its implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u530	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u531	It's your role: the law of settlement, that's what it's all about. To come to parliamentarians, unlike the minister, the budgets of the assemblies, constitutional public authorities, are autonomous: the National Assembly, and it is quite natural, sets its budget, determines it and votes; It is not controlled by the executive, which is quite normal. That is why it does not seem absurd that the law requires the Assembly to self-regulate itself with a number of provisions, including the provisions on the MFRI that we have just adopted. I am telling you this because it seems to me that the parallelism that you wish to establish cannot be at work. Basically, these amendments are more of a display than something else. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u532	It's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u533	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 22, 78, 131, 250, 284, 404, 405, 406 and 407.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u534	Mr Eric Coquerel, on Rule 7b, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u535	We are in favour of this article, which aims to extend to all taxes the tax audits of members of the Government, even though they have so far been limited to income tax and the ISF. This will, in particular, prevent the reproduction of some recent cases, such as that of Mr Thévenoud, who is suffering from administrative phobia. This will also help to avoid harming the state by controlling the probity of those who will incarnate it. So that goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u536	We must be careful, ladies and gentlemen: when I put an amendment to the vote, it is an amendment; When I put an article to the vote, it's an article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u537	There wasn't really a vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u538	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor to support Amendment No 92, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u539	Article L. 312-1 of the Code of Financial Courts provides that, when a public official has unlawfully ordered expenditure, he may be brought before a court under ordinary law: the Court of Budgetary and Financial Discipline. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this article includes a second article, which states that a minister is financially irresponsible. I am not talking at all about criminal responsibility, not about the Court of Justice of the Republic: when a minister is likely to have unlawfully ordered an expense, he cannot be prosecuted. I discovered this at a hearing of the Law Committee some time ago. A former director of the Bercy central administration explained to me that, when he held these positions, Luc Chatel, Minister of National Education, had decided that the new teachers would no longer go through a school but would teach directly. This director then ordered all treasurers and collectors in the country to pay the teachers concerned, despite the fact that the Minister of National Education had not signed any text. During the hearing before the Law Commission, he stated that this order was purely illegal. What would he have said to the judge if he had been prosecuted? That it was a personal order of the minister and that, since a minister is irresponsible, these prosecutions were not appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, if a mayor of a commune in the North of France asks a town secretary or a service manager to buy snowshoes, he will be told to do so in the summer, otherwise they will not be delivered for the winter. In our country, we cannot admit that public expenditure does not obey any regulation, except for the irresponsibility of the supreme authorising officer. Under another majority, I had tried to have this amendment voted, and the then government had constituted the House in such a way that I did not win; Today, there is another majority, which presents a law to restore confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is important.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u540	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u541	The committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on your amendment, Mr Warsmann, considering that ministers are accountable to the assemblies and do not need to be accountable to the Court of Budgetary and Financial Discipline.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u542	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u543	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u544	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u545	It is also unfavourable. The question you are asking is important, Mr. Warsmann, but it can be dealt with again, and more broadly, at the time of the constitutional review. As you know, the President of the Republic has announced the abolition of the Court of Justice of the Republic; I believe that your proposal can be raised in this context, because we will then be working on the issue of ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u546	Mr Yves Jégo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u547	I would also like to defend Amendment No 485 because you have not allowed me to do so, Mr President... I hear what the seal keeper has just said and, basically, it is good that my intervention is taking place at this moment. It is essential that this issue be addressed in future constitutional review work. We can't stay in such a blur. Madam rapporteur, you have told us that it is up to the assemblies to control. I'm sorry, but you will soon realize that the assemblies do not have the means to control, to control everything, to control seriously, as should be done. We must therefore find other means – that does not detract from our own responsibility – to ensure the protection of the members of the Government, as well as for the hospitality expenses, which I mentioned earlier. Because ministers have no information and often float in a world of imprecision that is absolutely harmful to common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u548	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u549	First, this amendment can be voted on with the Constitution unchanged. Secondly, this has nothing to do with criminal responsibility and the Court of Justice of the Republic. Thirdly, in a text aimed at restoring confidence, giving financial responsibility to a minister who regularly incurs expenses is a step in the right direction. I therefore call on my colleagues from all groups to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u550	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 526.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u551	The purpose of this amendment is to allow anti-corruption associations approved by the Ministry of Justice, when they obtain a successful case from a judge, to recover their costs from the opposing party in respect of costs. Article 700 of the Code of Civil Procedure currently allows for the reimbursement of legal expenses to the successful party, but sometimes the amounts proposed are not sufficient to cover the costs incurred. Anti-corruption associations labelled by the Ministry of Justice must be able, if a judge gives them reason, to place their legal fees entirely at the expense of the opposing party, and the judge must say so ex officio.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u552	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u553	The committee gives an unfavorable opinion, considering that this is not the subject of our text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u554	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u555	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u556	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u557	I am sorry to go back to the previous amendment tabled by Mr Warsmann. Your answer, Madam Keeper of the Seals, has been quite dilatory. You mentioned the subject of criminal responsibility and recalled that a draft constitutional law would propose the repeal of the Court of Justice of the Republic. I understand, but the question that we were dealing with about the Court of Budgetary and Financial Discipline is quite different: it is not a criminal court but a specialised administrative court. It is indeed a matter of responsibility, but in any case it will not be dealt with in the constitutional law that you refer to.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u558	I have four identical amendments, No 418 corrected, 416 corrected, 417 corrected and 419 corrected. Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor to support Amendment No. 418 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u559	My intervention will also be worth defending Amendments Nos 416, 417 and 419 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u560	That's okay.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u561	"The trick derails politics," said Étienne de Jouy more than 200 years ago – he probably thought of Mr.Bompard. More seriously, politics is currently facing a serious crisis of mistrust on the part of our fellow citizens. All manoeuvres that contribute to this discredit must therefore be combated. The amendment I am proposing supports this and finds its full place in a text whose very purpose is to restore confidence in political life. I suggest that you take up a bill that was passed in the Assembly under the previous legislature, but that the Senate waits to put it on its agenda. It provides for provisions to prevent fraudulent manoeuvres by a party – only one, the National Front – in the last municipal and departmental elections. The National Front, in order to table as many lists as possible, had, in some cases, that of Giberville, in my constituency, registered people without their consent on their municipal lists. Thinking of having signed a petition, sometimes a support, sometimes a list of electors, these people found themselves candidates for their defence corps. While in most cases these "despite them" were able to observe their recruitment before the election, in others, the deposit of the lists at the last moment in the prefecture did not allow it. For Giberville, the deliberate and fraudulent manoeuvres were condemned by the Administrative Court of Caen: the election of the candidates who lent themselves to these manoeuvres was cancelled. But the city council remains amputated and candidates – real, they – opposing teams are prevented from sitting. In any event, the objective was achieved for the National Front: to present the largest number of lists and to display a score, regardless of whether the candidates were actually so and whether the election was cancelled. My amendment intends to combat this system by amending the procedure for submitting applications for each packager or alternate. Indeed, if the Ministry of the Interior is not able to provide us with accurate statistics, the phenomenon has reached a scale that justifies us taking it up.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u562	Thank you for closing, Mrs. Dumont.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u563	[[Applause on a few benches of the NG group]] Its impact will be important in restoring that confidence, which we are talking about so much, by ensuring the sincerity of the vote, the very foundation of our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u564	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u565	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u566	This is a bill by Mrs Dumont, adopted by the National Assembly in February 2017. The committee sees no problem: I therefore express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u567	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u568	I also have a favourable opinion. I have a very little doubt about the cavalier nature of this amendment, but we are going to try it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u569	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u570	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u571	Mr José Evrard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u572	As we have just been called into question, I asked myself: did I sign a paper? I don't remember. In any case, it's worth it because I've been elected a Member of Parliament. From this point of view, it is a good thing that I signed this paper. On the other hand, our inclusion on the lists for municipal elections has attracted us a lot of sympathy, but above all a lot of pressure to prevent us from being faithful to our commitments, to our ideas and to prevent us from fighting under our flag. You can always present things in a certain way; It is always that, without a will and character soaked in steel, one cannot resist pressures of this order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u573	Justice has passed! Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u574	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u575	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Personally, I will vote for this amendment because it would be good to put an end to practices that have existed for a longer time: I observed such practices in the 2001 municipal elections. It would be good to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u576	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u577	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u578	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u579	The Committee on Finance was recently able to see, following the Court of Auditors' report, that the previous government had presented insidious accounts. This has given rise to fairly intense debate. This is extremely serious when we know that, for such abuses, senior officials can be brought before the Court of Budgetary and Financial Discipline. For the moment, the only possibility, in the face of this insinuity problem, is to refer it to the Court of Justice of the Republic, and it is clear what problems this poses. That is why we propose the creation of an offence of presenting public budgets and insidious administrative accounts, which would be punishable by the Prime Minister, the Minister responsible for the budget and all ministers and heads of central administration presenting the budgets of the various ministries.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u580	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u581	The Commission has delivered an unfavourable opinion, considering that this offence is far too imprecise to justify a criminal sanction. Is this a definition of sincerity different from that contained in article 32 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws? It states: "Financial laws present in a sincere way all the resources and expenses of the State. Their sincerity is appreciated in the light of the information available and the forecasts that can reasonably be expected from it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u582	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u583	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u584	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u585	My colleagues Hetzel and Breton are launching a very interesting debate here. For the past 30 years, our budgets have been in deficit on a regular basis. For thirty years, Parliament has been completely mocked by presenting it with totally overestimated levels of revenue due to pro-active growth assumptions that no one buys: generally, only the minister of the economy – whether he is on the right or on the left – believes in these predictions. We always find that he was wrong. Then we can see that he was also wrong about the expenses, which were reduced. The train continues to drive every year so that we pretend to vote for a budget that we know is completely inapplicable. The Court of Auditors, on the basis of evidence, regularly explains that the previous year's budget was clearly insinuating. But of course, as this lack of sincerity is never sanctioned, the problem persists. I understand the arguments of the keeper of the seals and the rapporteur, but, failing to adopt this amendment, what can be done in practice? How can we change our republic by stopping mobilizing national representation for more than three months in such a vain exercise, when our public finances are going badly? It is because you do not have an alternative solution that I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u586	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u587	I would like to add another argument. French legislation provides for sanctions for private-sector executives who present accounts that do not accurately reflect the operations of a given financial year, in particular by increasing assets or reducing liabilities. This applies to both large and small businesses. We were told earlier that this distinction between the public and the private sector should be systematically stopped. However, depending on whether you are a public or private sector leader, the same rules will not apply. This too can question all of our fellow citizens. That is why we are defending this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u588	Mr Stéphane Le Foll has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u589	I would like to clarify two or three things, Mr President. I have already spoken about the Court of Auditors' report, which looks qualitatively at a budget voted by national representation. I said at the time that the Court of Auditors is here to make accounts, not to settle accounts. I would ask those Members who today express their willingness to vote for genuine budgets to reflect for a short time on the difficulty of building a budget, in particular because of the uncertainty about the level of growth, in a context marked by exceptional events, whether it be terrorist attacks, health or climate hazards, or crises, particularly financial ones, which divert fiscal trajectories without the sincerity of those who present them being in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u590	I agree enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u591	[[Applause on several benches in the NG group]] So, please, on these issues, let's keep a little bit of reason. Of course, the ability to judge budget truth and sincerity must be extended as far as possible. But, from there to judge the texts that have been debated and adopted... Who will then have the monopoly of sincerity? Be very careful about this kind of subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u592	He's not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u593	The first speaker on rule 8 is Mr Eric Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u594	This article aims at greater transparency in the accounts of political parties by strengthening their control and supervision of their financing. We are in favour of it, but we believe and affirm that it does not go far enough, in particular – since the expectations of the French are often invoked – on the question of the big donors, who can then wait for a reward in exchange for what they have given for the campaign. We believe that beyond 3000 euros, all transparency must be made about the identity of donors, precisely in order to prevent any possibility of conflict of interest. This is in the direction of transparency. I therefore hope that not only Article 8 will be adopted but that it will be amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u595	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u596	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to say that this is my first speech in this House. I am very pleased to participate in the work of this Assembly, although debates may seem heavy, long, sometimes somewhat tedious. Transparency in the funding of political parties is at the heart of this bill, which we want to make the first act of regaining the confidence of our fellow citizens. As we know, the cacophony of disclosures about public and private party funding is embarrassing and far too great. Public money, which continues to finance political pluralism, guaranteed by our Constitution and essential to our democratic debate, must not be squandered. This public funding should not benefit certain groups, which claim to contribute to pluralism but have no real political aim. However, this is what has happened for twenty years, with the explosion of the number of microparties, not running for many candidates in any election whatsoever. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] This situation no longer seems tenable. The MODEM Group has tabled amendments in order to adopt a clear definition of what a political party is, to avoid funding that would not be in line with this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u597	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 340 and 617. Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor to support Amendment No. 340.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u598	We come precisely to the definition of political parties. I don't know if René Dosière was able to "murmur to each other's consciences," as Mr. Gosselin says; In any case, he informed our discussions, particularly on the issue of party financing. No legal text provides a precise definition of political parties. In the absence of a definition, the jurisprudence of the Council of State considers a political party to be any group subject to the Act on the financing of parties. The condition for being a political party is therefore to receive funding as a political party. Let's face it, it's a little fair. We believe that there is a need for a clear definition, especially since such a vagueness is involved in the number of parties and micro-parties, which rose from 20 in 1990 to 451 in 2016. [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] That is why we wish to clarify that "a political party or group is any legal person governed by private law who pursues political objectives through the mobilization of members and the participation in the campaign of candidates for elective public office".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u599	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor in support of the identical amendment No. 617.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u600	The aim of this amendment is indeed to define political parties, for which there is currently no legal definition. To this end, he takes up three criteria proposed by René Dosière: one, having a political object; Two, bringing together activists; support candidates in local or national elections. This would clarify the status of parties in our law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u601	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u602	The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion, first of all considering that it was not sure that this definition of political parties was in conformity with the Constitution, in particular Article 4. We also believe that this mechanism is missing its objective since its adoption would extract a number of parties from the scope of the 1988 Act and hence from the control of the CNCCFP, the National Commission on Campaign Accounts and Political Financing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u603	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u604	This amendment raises an important issue. A report published by your assembly in October 1994 – it's been a while but still – explained that an a priori definition of political parties is a particularly difficult exercise. Closer to us, under the previous legislature, more specifically during the examination of the law of 6 March 2017 to strengthen the accounting obligations of political parties and candidates, the question was raised, without however being able to adopt a definition of political parties, given the difficulties that any attempt at such a definition faces. I therefore do not diminish the difficulty, particularly in relation to Article 4 of the Constitution, which sets out a framework: "The political parties and groups contribute to the expression of the vote. They form and operate freely. They must respect the principles of national sovereignty and democracy. » A great freedom of organization is therefore left to political parties, who can take the form of de facto groups or choose to form an association, in a word, take various forms. Some of these parties are covered by the Act of 11 March 1988 on the financial transparency of political life, but this is not the case for all. This Act applies, on the one hand, to political parties and groups that receive public funding, and, on the other hand, to all those who, without public funding, are subject to the arrangements provided for in articles 11 et seq. of the 1988 Act. This is based on the use of an agent, the implementation of a financing framework and the fulfilment of strict accounting obligations, involving auditors from the National Commission for Campaign Accounts and Political Financing. In return, political parties and groups may receive donations eligible for tax reductions and contribute to the financing of election campaigns or other parties. In the end, even if this 1988 law does not only offer rights and imposes obligations, it remains attractive, in particular because of the benefit of the tax deduction it allows.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u605	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u606	This advantage largely explains, if I may say so, the emergence of micro-parties, as the National Commission on Campaign Accounts and Political Financing has repeatedly regretted. As you pointed out, Mrs Florennes, the number of political parties covered by the law of 11 March 1988 has exploded: there are now almost 450. Several measures have been taken to try to limit their development, including, since 2013, the application of the €7500 donation ceiling to all parties. However, the National Commission on Campaign Accounts and Political Financing noted that this measure, however important, did not really affect the number of parties, including micro-parties. It further stated that verifying compliance with this ceiling requires each party to send it a list of its donors and the amount of donations received. This bill further strengthens these measures by penalizing the failure to transmit the list of donors to the Commission. There is, therefore, a real problem, which you are right to raise, honourable Member, but it seems to me difficult to deal with it here by introducing criteria for the definition of a political party or group. The definition that you outline – my point is not critical, this attempt is welcome – runs a double risk: to retain an overly strict conception of political parties, which would violate the freedom provided for in Article 4 of the Constitution; on the other hand, to retain a too broad concept, which would not be satisfactory either. In addition, the proposed definition criteria raise some difficulties. Consider, for example, student unions, which mobilize members and can support certain candidates in elections; According to the assessment that the outline of the concept of political objective would be retained, they could be considered as political parties according to the definition proposed by the amendment. As you can see, the interpretation of the definition you are proposing would lead to uncertainty. That is why I am against these amendments, although I am absolutely aware of the difficulties identified by the authors. Clearly, overall progress is needed on this issue. I think you could take welcome initiatives in this area, but this text is not the right vehicle.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u607	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u608	I propose that our MODEM colleagues withdraw their amendment, the consequences of which are not those they believe. We can all consider, as we all know, that micro-parts built solely to serve as a piggy bank and to enjoy the public manna are a problem. Nevertheless, this amendment, which defines a political party as an entity inevitably running for election, would restrict the right of expression of many political currents in France. We can agree or disagree with them, the question is not there, but the anarchist currents, for example, do not traditionally run for election. I do not think you wish, ladies and gentlemen of MODEM, to restrict the freedom of expression and the right to organise one or another political current. However, this is what would lead to the adoption of your amendment, which I therefore propose to withdraw. Otherwise, for our part, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u609	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u610	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u611	I can hear the remarks made by Mrs. Keeper of the Seals. My colleague Laurence Vichnievsky and I have considered tabling a slightly more precise amendment to raise the thresholds for eligibility for public funding; We have given it up because it was indeed a problem of democracy and political pluralism, and we are well aware of it. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] In any event, in view of the problems that you raise, Mrs. Keeper of the Seals, I continue to believe that this text, bearing in mind its title, offers the opportunity to clarify the terms of the financing of political parties, that it provides a place to work on it. Maybe we have time. We are at your disposal, before the Joint Joint Committee meeting, scheduled for next Tuesday, in order to arrive at a possible clarification. Having made this proposal, I maintain our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u612	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u613	For our part, Xavier Breton and I, sensitive to the arguments put forward, withdraw our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u614	I have before me five amendments, No 28 corrected, 103 corrected, 264, 456 corrected and 26, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 28 corrected, 103 corrected, 264 and 456 corrected are identical. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 28, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u615	The aim is to take account of inflation, the proliferation of candidates in the legislative elections that has been observed regularly. There were an average of fourteen candidates per constituency in the last elections, also characterized by the presence of micro-parties, which of course aim to take advantage of the legislation on the financing of political parties. Patrick Hetzel and I are proposing an amendment aimed at raising the threshold for political party funding from 1 to 2.5% of the votes cast in at least 100 constituencies, in order to curb this drift that distorts the functioning of our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u616	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support the identical amendment No. 103, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u617	This amendment has the same objectives as the previous one. I thank the members of my group who are co-signatories. It tends to raise the thresholds for public funding of political parties. As has just been pointed out, in the last general election there were an average of fourteen candidates per constituency, with the inflation of candidates clearly causing no more interest among our fellow citizens, according to the record of abstention that has been achieved, but rather participating in the confusion of minds and even encouraging a form of mistrust among many voters. This situation is all the less acceptable in view of the fact that the number of candidates with no campaign expenses is extremely high: in 2012, 2692, or 44 per cent of the candidates, did not campaign, and there is every indication that they were as numerous or even more numerous last June. These candidates therefore merely signed a register in the prefecture for the sole purpose of campaigning. What motivates most of these candidates is not the enrichment of the democratic debate but the lure of gain. They do not reflect any national political dynamics but the purest opportunism. This explains the increase in the number of new parties in the run-up to the deadline: sixty-one of them competed in the last parliamentary elections. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The cause of this phenomenon lies in the thresholds for access to public financing, which constitute a genuine call for air. At present, it has been recalled that a party must have at least 1 per cent of the votes cast in at least 50 constituencies in order to be eligible for public funding. Our amendment now proposes to set the thresholds at 2.5% of the votes cast in at least 100 constituencies, which will dissuade the least serious initiatives while ensuring respect for the indispensable political pluralism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u618	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u619	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 264.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u620	As this amendment has been discussed in the Committee on Laws, I will be brief. We agree with what has just been said. For the sake of transparency, I would like to point out that this is the result of a work carried out by one of our colleagues, René Dosière, in the context of his proposal for a law on the moralisation of political life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u621	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 456, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u622	I am pleased that we have not touched on the definition of political parties, as was envisaged earlier. It is good to put the debate on the table, because it may be a good way to think about it, but I remain very attached to the freedom provided for in Article 4 of the Constitution. [[Smile]] This is not about limiting the possibility of creating political parties, which no one wants to do. On the other hand, changes in public funding frameworks may be considered. Indeed, we absolutely want to avoid the creation of micro-parties that benefit – there is no other term – from parliamentary elections and then maintain premises, for example, by unduly benefiting, in my opinion, from public funding of political life. I refer you, ladies and gentlemen, to the case of a small four-leaf clover, which I remind you with a bit of humor that he covered the chronicle a few years ago and reported a lot, which shows that this choice was very lucky... We therefore wish to raise the current thresholds from 1 to 2.5 per cent of the votes cast and from 50 to 100 constituencies, even though this debate will in any event also have to take place in the autumn, as a result of the announced constitutional reform, which will inevitably lead to a reduction in the number of constituencies. A threshold of one hundred electoral districts does not have the same weight depending on whether the total is 577 or 380 or 400, depending on the proportional dose introduced by the Government. This project will therefore have to be resumed, but we must start to open it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u623	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u624	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u625	The aim is to make it more difficult to access public funding by adding the blank ballots to the votes, which is also a way of asking the question of recognition of the blank vote. This amendment therefore has a twofold purpose: on the one hand, to raise the threshold from which parties benefit from public funding; on the other hand, progress in the recognition of the white vote among the votes cast in the elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u626	What is the committee's opinion on these five amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u627	The committee is voting against these amendments, for the reason set out earlier: raising the thresholds does not really reach the target. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that only thirteen parties receive the first tranche of public aid. It is to be feared that the raising of the thresholds, of which it would be interesting to study the impact, will ultimately concern only one or two parties. I agree with Mr Gosselin's comments on the forthcoming constitutional reform, which will reduce the number of constituencies, but I draw a different conclusion from his: it is not reasonable to change the thresholds even though the number of constituencies is likely to change very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u628	It is always nice to see his words approved by the chairman of the commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u629	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u630	Unfavorable opinion; I'm not repeating the reasoning.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u631	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u632	Raising the threshold to 2.5% of the votes cast in 100 constituencies will have consequences for political plurality, that is obvious. These amendments suffer from confusion between micro-parties and parties with a low audience. A micro-party is usually without members, has the support of a few generous donors and has a single-personality activity – a local elected official, a deputy, a minister or a President of the Republic. This is for example the case of the micro-party Jeanne or the Friends of Nicolas Sarkozy. On the other hand, a small party has activists, holds general assemblies and regularly runs for election – not just in the general elections – but achieves modest scores. If the thresholds are raised, many parties will be excluded from public funding. I did the count: today, radicals, Standing up France, regionalists, MODEM and Workers' Struggle would not have access to public funding. I also note that 16 parties – I have sixteen of them, although 13 were mentioned earlier – receive public funding out of the 451 parties listed by the CNCFP; You can't say it's plethora. I therefore caution you against these amendments, which seem to me to be threatening pluralism and which are also likely to be subject to censorship by the Constitutional Council. In 1990, when the threshold was raised, the Commission estimated that it was "of such a nature as to impede the expression of new currents of ideas and opinions". [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] In this context, I find these proposals somewhat curious, coming from large political groups. Mr. Dosière may be a specialist, but he may not always be right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u633	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u634	I am struck by this view of democracy: at a time when the French's distrust of their policies is growing, they would be told that several small parties, which, without having a very large national audience, do not receive any more votes, will no longer be able to benefit from public funding, which will de facto, for some of them, be able to no longer present candidates. I'm not even talking about candidates like me: I was supported by six different political parties...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u635	That's a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u636	That's a lot, yes! How would I be counted? Would I count for a party? For others? It's pretty complicated to deal with.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u637	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u638	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] I agree with the previous speaker: the measures proposed to us would deprive us of access to public funding for historically significant parties, such as the Left Radical Party or Standing France. That would not be a good signal for pluralism and democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u639	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u640	I support the excellent amendments by Mrs Kuster and Mr Breton. First, the increase in the number of candidates in elections clearly undermines confidence in democracy, as it gives the impression that democracy is a masquerade. We come to fifteen or sixteen electoral panels, some of which are not even covered by a poster, and, when the media want to organise a debate – even if the rules have been changed a little bit – it cannot be democratic, because how can we invite a dozen candidates, the only way to ensure that they have the same access to the media? We are objected to the fact that our proposals will not counter this inflation observed by all. But then I want to ask the Government what it intends to do. Secondly, I do not agree at all with the rapporteur's argument. It is urgent to wait, she says in essence, since the electoral system will be changed. On the contrary! Proportional voting is a method of voting that multiplies the number of parties represented. We should therefore take advantage of the current period, while there are only seven to eight groups in this Chamber – and we already see the problems that this poses from the point of view of the organisation of our debates – to think about rules, before establishing a system that could have a multiplier effect. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Finally, I do not agree with those who consider that the more parties there are, the greater the pluralism of the debate. In the United States or the United Kingdom, there are very few parties and a very large number of opinions within them. It is men who make the pluralism of democratic life, not the parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u641	Mrs Alice Thourot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u642	I would remind you that today, every party is entitled to a public allocation of €1.42 per vote since fifty of the candidates it has put forward to the legislature have won more than 1% of the vote. But we are all doing the same thing. The party Le Trèfle, for example, whose last Facebook publication dates from 2012, and the Independent Ecological Alliance receive 92000 and 139000 euros per year respectively. The number of political parties exploded: my colleague Florennes recalled it, it was 451 in 2016, compared to only 20 in 1990. In addition, micro-parties generate many ghost candidates. In 2012, for example, 44 per cent of the candidates in the parliamentary elections reported no campaign expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u643	No! Now we're mixing it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u644	By proposing to raise the thresholds to 100 constituencies and 2.5% of the votes, the amendments under discussion are in the right direction. However, it seems to me that they will not be enough to solve the much wider problem of financing political parties. Furthermore, we do not have an impact assessment on the subject – as Mr Molac reminded us just now – particularly with regard to the overseas parties. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I shall therefore vote against these amendments. However, since we have all noted that this is a real problem, I propose to all of my colleagues here that we work together on these issues during our term of office, in order to move towards greater transparency and rationalise public spending in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u645	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u646	In a committee, Madam rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u647	Mr Yves Jégo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u648	We can see that there is a real problem here, which is not the plurality of the parties – I am quite in favour of creating all the political parties we want – but something very different: access to public funding. It should only be directed towards parties that have real activity. Perhaps part of the solution lies in examining the actual activity of the parties after the elections, in order to determine whether they really exist or whether they conceal a form of misappropriation of public money. Ms. Thourot, speaking on behalf of the majority, proposed that we all sit together around a table to work on it. I am very much in favour of this, because this issue is essential to trust in public life: we are at the heart of the object of the law. But I will vote in favour of these amendments because I do not see what difficulty they pose. They already bear witness to the fact that we have detected a problem; If, subsequently, a somewhat different consensus solution emerges, particularly with a view to constitutional revision, the text we have voted on will evolve a little, but it does matter, since there will be no parliamentary elections in the meantime.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u649	What if there's a dissolution?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u650	It is important not to delay, to demonstrate in this text on trust in public life that we are aware of the problem. The amendments under discussion are clear in this regard. I repeat, if the text is to evolve over the coming weeks or months, it will be done without difficulty. But if we do not vote on the amendments, we will have missed a chapter on trust in public life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u651	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u652	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Once again, these amendments miss out on the real problems. If some colleagues think that the suffocation of parliamentary life in our country, in favour of hyper-presidentialism, is linked to the number of parties running for election, they are totally wrong. Unless they are nostalgic of fire bipartism, fortunately gone,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u653	He never existed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u654	...which will warn us of any temptation to drift to the American. I remind you, in the United States there are many parties, but the system produces a confrontation between two of them that do not call the system into question, that is to say the least; It does not seem to me to guarantee political pluralism or democracy. We are opposed to these amendments for the reasons that Mr Molac has excellently presented. It is not by breaking the thermometer that evil will be rectified. If our fellow citizens feel they need a number of parties, it is because the parties themselves are not able to present attractive projects enough to avoid the nuisance, if I may say so, of some 20 candidates. It is a question of political and system proposals; the problem is not the number of parties presenting candidates. The measures submitted to us therefore seem illusory to me. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] In addition, I trust the intelligence of the people and rely on popular sovereignty. When it comes to making real choices, whether there are ten or twenty candidates, the people are not mistaken: they know how to use their political judgment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u655	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u656	We can welcome the debate that these amendments have opened, because the proliferation of candidates poses a real problem for our democracy: it contributes to abstention, because fifteen or twenty electoral panels, some of which are sometimes empty, keep voters confused. Our amendments, however, were not intended to call into question democratic pluralism; That's why we're removing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u657	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u658	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u659	We were against raising the thresholds, but we are very much in favour of Mr Thourot's proposal: we must go into the matter together, on the basis of your arguments, which we have appreciated, Madam Keeper of the Seals. We're continuing the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u660	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u661	The amendments raise a relevant question. Our legislation allows financial transfers between parties: if they do not have the right to receive donations from legal persons, nothing prevents a party A from transferring money to a party B, that is the problem. Molac cited several parties that receive financial transfers from other parties. I won't mention them here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u662	The MODEM! France is insoubted!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u663	In any case, these flows have existed in the past. This possibility of transfers between micro-parties and other political parties, a form of hypocrisy, is the core of the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u664	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u665	I will withdraw my amendment No 456 as corrected. I, like my colleagues, wanted to draw attention to this essential issue. Let us not misunderstand: it was not a question of limiting the freedom to create political parties, as guaranteed by article 4 of the Constitution. The problem is the public funding of the parties, which is not the same, I would say so that it is clear. I hear that a reform is going to take place, which I myself had tried to set a few milestones. Perhaps we could also better take into account the overseas percentages, I admit to being sensitive to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u666	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u667	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u668	I withdraw my amendment on condition that the project remains open, in the context of the mission proposed by the rapporteur or a specific mission on political parties, which would not be inappropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u669	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 529.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u670	During the campaign, the President of the Republic announced his wish to make it impossible to carry out more than three consecutive terms. I do not know if this measure would be constitutional, Mrs. Keeper of the Seals will be able to tell us. In any event, our amendment tends to reduce the public funds allocated to parties whose candidates were elected when they already had three terms of office, on the basis of penalties for those who do not respect parity in parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u671	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u672	The committee gives an unfavorable opinion, considering that a constitutional review is near and also that we can indeed create a mission on the issue of political parties as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u673	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u674	Same opinion as the commission. Mrs Rabault, have you, as I have, heard the speech of the President of the Republic in Congress: this issue will be dealt with in the context of the revision of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u675	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u676	[[Exclaims on the benches of the REM and NG groups]] The financing of political parties is an obsession of our colleague Rabault, who already attacked yesterday the parties who present candidates for criminal records a little busy. We deplored earlier attacks on the plurality of the democratic debate. We would be well advanced by adopting these kinds of amendments, Mrs Rabault: it will happen one day when a party may complain that it will no longer receive public money at all, because it has accumulated penalties because it has not presented enough women, because it has put forward candidates whose criminal records were not virgin, or candidates too popular and re-elected beyond a third term. Let's stop brandishing the threat of public money like a stick! I'd like the left to be so harsh on the delinquents!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u677	Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u678	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u679	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 499.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u680	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] This amendment tends to prohibit political parties from making loans with interest to their candidates. We saw some parties offer their candidates kits that they could not refuse, because they had to sign the agreement to get the nomination. In the end, it is a misappropriation of the electoral law, since interests enrich political parties. It is outside the framework of the electoral law to enter into the framework of the financing of political parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u681	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u682	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u683	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u684	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u685	My opinion is unfavorable. The ban on interest-bearing loans seems disproportionate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u686	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 538.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u687	Amendments Nos 538 and 537 are very similar.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u688	They may be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u689	Legal persons do not have the right to finance political parties or candidates for an election. On the other hand, there is nothing to prevent these legal persons from guaranteeing a loan made either by a political party or by a candidate in an election. These two amendments therefore tend to remove the possibility for a legal person to guarantee the loan made by a candidate, a political party or a group of political parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u690	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u691	Unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 538 but in favour of Amendment No 537.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u692	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u693	I invite you, Mrs Rabault, to withdraw Amendment No 538 in favour of Amendment No 537, which is better placed, and which aims to prohibit legal persons, other than credit institutions and political parties and groups, from guaranteeing loans granted to political parties and groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u694	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor to support Amendment No. 355.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u695	I hope that this fine unanimity will continue around my amendment. It tends to put an end to all the banking activities of political parties, which, in my view, are not intended to replace banking institutions. This measure is part of the general context of this bill, which establishes a credit mediator and the democratic bank, which is responsible for financing the borrowing of candidates. The issue of funding between political parties remains a whole issue. Forgive me for being naive, but I don't understand what the purpose is. Aren't parties supposed to compete?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u696	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u697	[[Exclaims on the banks of the NG group]] Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u698	Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u699	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u700	Same opinion as the Commission because the Act of 11 March 1988 allows funding between parties, in particular in the form of donations or loans, if they comply with the obligations laid down in that Act. The ban on loans seems disproportionate and could drastically reduce the sources of financing for the parties, and we will soon be talking about it when we face difficulties in accessing bank credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u701	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u702	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u703	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u704	[[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group]] I do not understand the answer of the keeper of seals, which refers us to a law in force. As far as I know, we are voting for the law, so we can amend it if necessary. This amendment seemed fair to me; I regret that he does not receive a favourable opinion. The parties, in essence, compete, as Elodie Jacquier-Laforge said very well. If they finance each other, there's a wolf.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u705	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 616.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u706	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u707	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u708	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u709	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u710	This amendment is satisfied with Amendment No 519, which was previously adopted. I therefore invite Mr Hetzel to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u711	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u712	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] In the face of such convincing arguments, I can only withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u713	Ladies and gentlemen, rather than embarking on a joint debate that may be lengthy and prevent us from following the match of the Olympique de Marseille, I propose that you adjourn the sitting. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-27-E1024.u714	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the ordinary bill and the organic bill for trust in public life. The meeting is adjourned.
