ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft enabling legislation to be adopted by order on measures to strengthen social dialogue (No 119).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u2	Mr Laurent Pietraszewski, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister for Labour, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we are here in this Chamber to conclude the first parliamentary stage of this crucial reform, which is one of the most important commitments of the President of the Republic, that of strengthening social dialogue. In particular, the reform aims to provide more flexibility for enterprises while simplifying the rules of labour law and providing greater readability for employees. Above all, it aims to enable standards to be better adapted to the specificities of companies, while improving the framework for company and branch bargaining, and facilitating dialogue with employee representatives. The Joint Joint Committee, meeting yesterday, adopted the final text before us today. On the method, I would point out that this is an authorization given to the Government to legislate by order and, contrary to the ideas received, this procedure does not lead to the exclusion of Parliament or to the avoidance of parliamentary debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u4	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u5	...we have demonstrated this very widely. We are voting today for an authorization, and will discuss downstream the measures that will be subject to ratification. One of the key challenges of reform is trusting the social partners and fostering social dialogue. This is reflected, in particular, in the enabling bill, in the possibility given to the Government to merge staff representative bodies. I am convinced that this merger will make it possible to fluidise the social dialogue in the company in order to make it more efficient in order to better meet the expectations of the employees. The Joint Joint Committee wished to retain the progress that had been made in the Senate on this point, which made it possible, inter alia, to strengthen the training of staff representatives in the future body, or to set the maximum number of successive elective terms of office of its members at three, with exceptions. However, in response to concerns about the disappearance of the CHSCT – the Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions – which had been expressed here as well as in the Senate, it decided to strengthen a provision adopted in the Senate by giving the Government the opportunity to make mandatory a specific commission on health, safety and working conditions when this is necessary, for example in the event of a risk found in the company or because the size of the company's workforce makes the establishment of this commission appropriate. I also welcome the fact that our two chambers have achieved real convergence on subjects as crucial in the field of social dialogue as the upgrading of trade union paths, the training of staff representatives, the improvement of employee participation in the governance bodies of large companies or the redefinition of the role of the regional inter-branch joint committees – the CPICs. This will enable social dialogue to take place at all levels, including in very small enterprises. The text also reflects this issue of proximity through the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity, which we have discussed at length, and which is intended to give the level of enterprise the primacy to negotiate all the subjects on which it is no more relevant to rely at the level of the industry. On this point, our convergence with the Senate was endorsed by the CMP. With regard to the procedure for the validation of business agreements, the Joint Joint Committee reached a compromise, while the text adopted in the Senate had moved significantly away from the objectives that we were pursuing. We have thus restored the possibility of adjusting the timetable for the implementation of the majority agreements provided for by the law of 8 August 2016, because I am personally convinced that an enterprise agreement must be based on an undeniable legitimacy. With regard to the use of referendums, the Joint Joint Committee wished to set out on the table all possible options to facilitate the use of referendums, without taking sides in any of these options, i.e. the initiative of the employer, a representative trade union or a joint initiative. When ratifying the ordinances, we will be very careful to ensure that the solution chosen by the Government respects the negotiating competence of the trade unions, while at the same time overcoming the obstacles that may arise in the area of social dialogue. The Joint Joint Committee also reached consensus on two major points on the delicate issue of dismissal. First, as regards the economic grounds for dismissal, the representatives of our two chambers have chosen to act on the principle that the level of assessment of economic difficulties by the judge is intended to be the national area, while providing that adjustments may be made to this rule to take account of certain specific situations. Indeed, setting up a plan to safeguard employment – PSE – in a company in a situation of reorganization or judicial liquidation is not the same as setting up such a plan in a subsidiary of a larger group and whose financial health would also flourish. Secondly, with regard to the scheme applicable to employees who refuse to implement a collective agreement which has consequences for working hours or remuneration, the CMP has retained the principle laid down by the Senate that dismissal following the employee's refusal is a specific ground. The CMP also provided, on a proposal from the rapporteurs of the two chambers, that, in the context of such dismissal, the employee will receive specific support in the form of enhanced training rights. I recall that on this issue of dismissal, the Senate, at the initiative of the Government, has adopted a provision aimed at reducing, or even removing, the requirement of seniority required to receive severance benefits: this measure is in line with the commitments made by the Minister before our Assembly to revalue the statutory severance benefits. We welcome this because it is an important step forward for employees. Consideration of the enabling bill will also have highlighted the real convergences between the two assemblies on several other topics very much expected by the employees. I am thinking in particular of the issue of exposure to penitibility and the introduction of a genuine prevention policy. The amendments made by the National Assembly and the Senate agree on the need to reduce exposure to penitibility, not just to compensate for it. As such, I hope that the new mechanism will move resolutely towards prevention in order to bring France closer to the lower levels of exposure found in our neighbours. We will pay particular attention to the contours of the ordinance on this subject. Telework is another example of the convergence between our two assemblies. The lengthy debates on this subject in our Chamber at first reading highlighted the value of such a solution – and of all forms of remote work – for both the employee and the employer. Here we clarified the issue of a better balance between personal, professional and family rhythms. The Senate, for its part, emphasized the desirability of such a solution for workers with disabilities. There is no doubt that we will be keen to follow this empowerment closely in order to take full advantage of the new solutions offered by digitalisation. I would like, at this stage of considering this text – which is, I would remind you, only the first stage of this reform – to welcome the very positive spirit in which parliamentarians have worked, thanking my colleagues from all sides of this House, including those who have sometimes strongly opposed this bill, but that is also what makes the importance and value of our debates, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u6	You have to say it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u7	I also thank our fellow senators, in particular the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, rapporteur for the Senate, Mr Alain Milon. I would also like to say that if the debates have been calmed down, while sometimes being animated in this House, it is also thanks to the minister that I would like to thank her for her constant concern to report and explain this reform to parliamentarians. I would also like to thank his team for their availability and listening, as well as the directors of our two assemblies. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LC group]] This first stage of empowerment will be followed, quite quickly, by the very important and much-anticipated second stage of this reform: this autumn, Parliament will have before it the bill to ratify the ordinances aimed at strengthening social dialogue. We are confident, Madam Minister, of the mandate we are giving you today to legislate, based on the negotiations conducted in the framework of the consultation and the ongoing dialogue that has been conducted with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u8	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u9	Mr President, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, if there was a word to remember from our debates on this text, and for which I would particularly like to thank you, it is the word 'dialogue'. Constant, in-depth dialogue throughout the debates, regardless of the convictions that drive us, and which sometimes differ – this is democracy. Dialogue has also enabled the Joint Joint Committee, which was held yesterday afternoon, to reach a joint drafting in the National Assembly and the Senate on the draft enabling legislation to be adopted by order for measures to strengthen social dialogue. I would also like to commend the pragmatic and constructive attitude that has guided your work. Dialogue is also what drives us, from the beginning, in consultation with the social partners. In addition to the meetings with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, forty-eight meetings were held in the Ministry. Consultation with trade unions and employers' organizations will continue and be completed in the coming weeks on draft ordinances. Finally, dialogue is what we believe in and which is the foundation of this whole bill. As you have understood, we want trust to be shared in collective intelligence as well as in social dialogue – in order to best guarantee the needs of freedom and protection for both businesses and employees, as close as possible to the ground – which is at the heart of our action as well as of the enabling bill. We want to strengthen the social dialogue, because we believe in the ability of the social partners, employers, employees and their representatives to find pragmatic solutions, as close as possible to the ground, to make the most of the changes we are undergoing, by anticipating them by accompanying them, and, above all, by reconciling the imperative of competitiveness with the requirement of social justice, that is, by bringing economic and social convergence together. The dialogue, both in Parliament and with the social partners, does not necessarily mean that there will be an agreement on everything, let alone unanimity, even though some issues have been raised in Parliament: I am thinking in particular of the better integration of equality between women and men and persons with disabilities. On the other hand, an agreement is necessarily asymmetrical if it is not the result of dialogue. Thus, the sustainability of an agreement lies in the ability of stakeholders to engage in dialogue to find common ground. Each agreement – this will also be true for the social dialogue in the company – asks each stakeholder about the relevance of its positioning, but also requires everyone to take responsibility to meet the challenges we are facing. This is what will happen tomorrow in companies as well as in industries, with a strengthened social dialogue that will lead each of the parties to take more responsibility, since the scope of what they can negotiate and discuss with a view to advancing the company, as well as the employees, will be more important. That is also the meaning of the commitment I made to the national representation on 13 July: to come back, as I did, to the Committee on Social Affairs to present to you the results of the third part of the consultations and to answer your legitimate questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u10	That's a good idea, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u11	Dialogue is, at last, the process of mutual listening that we have started together for more than a month. We can collectively be satisfied with the result that this link between social democracy and political democracy has produced at this stage. This process is not complete since the orders and the ratification bill will then come. This alloy has made it possible to refine the orientations initially adopted by the Government. I will take three examples of changes or enrichments arising from the dialogue with Parliament as well as with the social partners. On the first part of the draft law dedicated to the new link between the company agreement and the branch agreement and to the secure extension of the scope of collective bargaining, we have finally chosen, in accordance with our desire to decentralize the negotiation, to strengthen not only the company agreement, but also the branch agreement. Such a result is the direct result of discussions with the social partners and in Parliament: I am thinking in particular of the special attention given to the specific situation of very small and medium-sized enterprises. This will be reflected in the drafting of the ordinances, so as to guarantee the effectiveness of the rights not only for all employees, but also for all employers, regardless of the size of the enterprise: this is also the spirit of the reform of the occupational preventive account. On the second aspect of staff representation, you made two key observations that led us to amend and enrich the bill. First observation: in order to ensure the full success of the merged body, the future social and economic committee – which will bring together the works council, the CHSCT and the staff delegates – you stressed the need to further strengthen the training and career paths of the staff representatives in order to enable them to have a quality social dialogue and to create vocations to make it last. In this regard, I have entrusted a mission, Mr. Jean-Dominique Simonpoli, President of the Association Dialogues, whose recommendations will be destined to be found in the ordinances. The second observation that you made to us with force, both in the debates in the National Assembly and in the Senate and in the Joint Joint Committee: it is necessary to take into account the specific size or sector of activity of enterprises in order to ensure that the Social and Economic Committee will have a specialised commission dedicated to hygiene, safety and working conditions. This is indeed necessary every time. The third example of enrichment arising from dialogue relates to the security of labour relations. You have discussed at length in this House the issues of telework, which is emblematic of the need to reform our labour code. To date, it has proved unable to anticipate and make the most of technological innovations and new aspirations of employees. I particularly appreciated our debate on this subject because it informed us about the more detailed directions to be taken within the framework of the ordinances. But it is not just a question of securing new forms of work: we must also remove the legal uncertainties which, because of their anxiety, hinder hiring. This is the whole issue of simplified access to the law with the digital labour code, which aims to better support small and medium-sized enterprises in their decisions. It is also that of securing the procedure of dismissal, in order to avoid the systematic recourse to litigation which is harmful for both the employer and the employee, since both are then suspended from sometimes distant and random court decisions which deprive them of their ability to project themselves in the future. That is why we wanted to encourage upstream conciliation, increase legal severance benefits and clarify the scales of damages. The agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee is, I repeat, not a blank one given to the Government. It is a mandate that it has to respect, implement and report, under the watchful eye not only of the legislator and the social partners, but also – through you, ladies and gentlemen – of all our fellow citizens. The implementation of this reform and the ownership of it by actors on the ground will take place in parallel with the forthcoming work of the Government over the next 18 months. I have already announced them in this forum, but I believe it is important to recall their consistency in the renewal of our social model. This renovation is based on the need and the desire to provide each of our compatriots with more effective protections against unemployment, against insecurity, in the face of the current and future upheavals in our economic and social environment, through the reform of unemployment insurance. The first of these active protections are, first of all, skills. That is why I will be defending the reform of vocational training next year and, together with the Minister for National Education, Jean-Michel Blanquer, that of apprenticeship. It is also the reform of pensions that will be carried out by the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn. Finally, more broadly, it is the spirit of the Government's efforts to reduce labour costs, lower taxes and support purchasing power. This package of reforms must allow growth, once again in the hexagon, to be fully job-bearing, an imperative concern that I think we all share. These interdependent reforms are the foundation upon which our entrepreneurs will be able to express the extent of their potential for innovation, job creation and the promotion of the excellence of France's know-how and creativity in our country, in Europe as well as in the world. It is this dynamic that creates jobs. More freedom and protection through enhanced social dialogue as close as possible to the ground, it is the purpose of the bill that I have the honour, ladies and gentlemen, to put to your vote today, as well as the approach in which we will put future reforms. At the end of this first phase of the long renovation that we have just undertaken, I would like to thank all those who have engaged in the discussions. I am thinking in particular of the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Brigitte Bourguignon, who has allowed the committee to meet quickly, in an active, serene and conducive atmosphere to substantive work. I would also like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, Laurent Pietraszewski, who has carried out a remarkable work of dialogue, listening, pedagogy and negotiation in the CMP. [[Applause on many benches]] I would also like to thank, on behalf of my colleague Gerald Darmanin, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance on Article 9, Joël Giraud. I also welcome the approach taken by Boris Vallaud, who, from the beginning of the examination of the draft, has applied for the report on the implementation of the law which will emerge from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u12	It's compliments we'd be doing well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u13	Good luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u14	I would also like to pay tribute to the Speaker, along with the Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Senate, who have allowed the discussion of this bill to proceed in good conditions. [[Applause on many benches]] Finally, I would like to thank, first of all, the services of the meeting and the administrators of the commissions concerned for their technicality and the availability they have shown in a very short time. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Finally, I would like to thank each and every one of you on these benches for your mobilization, your extremely active participation and your interventions throughout the examination of the first text that I have the honour to wear: you were at the meeting that the French gave us. I know that you will also be on the next texts that will bring us together, in order to continue to renovate our common house, the French social model. This model needs to be renovated so that it is a reality on a daily basis for our fellow citizens, so that it can live up to the republican promise of individual and collective emancipation and so that the freedom to undertake goes hand in hand with the strengthening of equal opportunities, both the foundations of fraternity. Our common ambition is to ensure that France, with its heritage and values, can find its own path to an ambitious and renovated social model, in line with the challenges of our time and tomorrow. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on several benches in the LC group]] Today, by voting on this text, you are going to make our country, its companies and its employees take a very important step: I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u15	What about Danone?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for thinking about welcoming the work not only of Members of Parliament, but also of the administrators of the House of Commons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u17	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I call here for the rejection of the Labour Code orders for a number of reasons which I would like to explain to you because we do not accept this situation. First, this project does not respond to the country's current emergencies. Madam Minister, the social reality of our country seems to have escaped you: 9 million people live below the poverty line, 1 million of whom are poor workers, while there are 39 billionaires whose fortunes have increased by 21% in one year! The distribution of wealth is absurd: it must therefore be improved. The social reality is that ten points of GDP have been transferred since 1982 from wages to financial profits. This transfer of wages to finance does not work: it stifles the real economy, deprives SMEs of opportunities and obliges us to deal with recurring crises with public money. There is an urgent need to restore to employees and companies who invest a proportion worthy of what they produce and who are burdened with financial profits. The social reality is that 6 million people are registered in Pôle emploi, while only 21,000 job offers have not been taken up, often because they concern difficult jobs, which are offered under unworthy conditions: there would be 285 unemployed per job offer! However, since June 2016, 664,000 people have been removed, 30 times as many as there are no jobs in circulation: this is absurd, and it affects most of the working-class neighbourhoods. There is a shortage of jobs in France, so it is necessary to revive the activity. Every year, unemployment – again, it is social reality – directly kills 14,000 people, four times as much as the road. Cardiovascular disorders, depression, lack of sleep, suicides, road accidents: the unemployed have three times the mortality of the active population. Behind the shortage of jobs, there are lives at risk. The social reality is also that work, as it happens today, kills: 565 employees die each year at their workplace. Since the 2000s, there has been an increase in the number of work days lost as a result of an accident at work: 38 million annual days have been wasted due to daily violence against employees. According to the Health Watch Institute, a quarter of men and one third of women in our country suffer from psychological distress related to their work: a plan must be put in place to combat suffering at work. No, the emergency is not to make night work easier! And because you have to put faces on numbers, I want to talk to you about Emeline who suffered the precariousness that hurts and mutiles. After being hired at La Poste on a fixed-term contract – a contract that has been renewed more than the law permits – this young woman did a stroke in her workplace. While she felt bad, it's just if her hierarchy didn't call her a liar: "Finish your job, we'll call the firefighters after." And since we didn't take care of her fast enough, she ended up with a disability when she was 25. Worse: As a result of her stroke, which she will retain for life, La Poste refused her an indefinite contract and the factor that rescued her and called the firefighters was laid off and did not work for more than eight months!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u19	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u20	Deregulating labour law means endangering people. This is what you are aiming for with the end of the indefinite contract, the CDI, through the extension of the CDI. The social reality is that in France unionizing becomes dangerous. We are going back to an unofficial situation of repression of trade unionism. The Department of Research, Studies and Statistics of the Ministry of Labour – DARES – notes that union elected officials or union delegates report less often than all employees have benefited from promotions in the previous three years. The reality is that a cashier from the Auchan de Tourcoing is fired for 85 cents...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u21	What's Darmanin doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u22	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ... but let Mrs. Christine Lagarde be released for negligence in a 403 million euro arbitration! There is a need for impartial justice in this country, faced with the boundless violence of this world when it is deregulated. Instead, you disband the most appreciated justice of the workers of this country, the prud'hommes, while the number of cases dealt with there has tripled in twenty years and one in four employees has passed there or will pass there. Even between companies, you tolerate unbearable inequalities. CAC 40 companies are taxed at around 10%, compared to 30% for SMEs. In the bill you do not speak of the CICE, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, which will reach 23 billion annual expenditure and subsidize jobs in large companies to the tune of 400,000 euros per year and per job, equivalent to ten officials; They will disappear to water a private employee, in a company that doesn't need that money!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u23	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u24	Nor are you talking about free trade agreements that put small businesses in competition with Canadian giants, or about the 80 billion tax evasion and evasion that would allow the ecological conversion of small businesses and the country's building. You stifle small businesses for the benefit of the big ones! So here is the first reason for our request for rejection: this text does not address any of the priorities of France and the people who work there. On the contrary, you make them an adjustment variable. The second reason is that this policy is a continuation of the policies that have been in place for thirty years and that have already proved their failure. You are going, Madam Minister, to face the same failure as your predecessors. Unfortunately, the renewal you claim is only bad news. Of your choruses and your striped records, we can't do it anymore! The urgency is to put an end to it. Is it possible to fight unemployment through precarious jobs? However, acting in French law was introduced in 1972 and the CDD in 1979: they had time to prove themselves! Since then, however, unemployment has continued to rise, apart from the 35-hour period. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Your own leaders are tangled with brushes. Édouard Philippe declared on May 15 in the show "We're not in bed": "The French don't work enough in the week, don't work enough in the year, don't work enough in life"; "We work less than the Germans," he added. That's totally wrong. You will tell the Prime Minister that if we compare all the employees of the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – OECD – we observe that the French work more, in terms of duration of employment, than the Germans. According to Eurostat, the French could even stop working on Friday noon and continue to produce more than their German counterparts who would stay at work until evening!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u25	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u26	There is no correlation between the reduction in employee rights and the fall in unemployment; This is what the OECD has proven in its work over the period 2000-2013. It is not for lack of having tried all the modes of correlation calculations and possible dot clouds! In France, it is even the opposite: the easier the dismissals, the higher the unemployment. Indeed, it is above all the order book that dictates the hiring policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u28	As for the criticism that the 35 hours would be destructive of employment, this is again not true. The report of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS –, censored by your services last summer, compiles robust and consensual analyses in the academic field, which estimate the number of job creations around 350,000. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] You enjoy a sad support in the person of Christophe Barbier, who annoys the music of our time: "We like to do nothing" ; "It would be time for the French to give up their fifth week of paid leave and their days of RTT"... That's absurd! Already, weeks of paid leave allow employees to work better the rest of the year: removing them would reduce their record productivity. Then, no, no Frenchman will give up his fifth week of paid leave on his own, for we have torn it off by the social struggle, foot on foot, first in collective agreements, then in the law. This week of paid leave is the product of a balance of power! I ask for the rejection of these ordinances, symbols of an archaic, erroneous and pastist policy! [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the FI group]] The third reason is the method used. The policy you are proposing, Madam Minister, is more reminiscent of Guizot and his nineteenth century than of the imperatives of our time. As for the method you use, it is exactly the old policy that some of you criticize at their lost hours. Not only do you appeal to the ordinances – we have mentioned them several times in this Chamber – but this is in conjunction with the announcement made by the President of the National Assembly that he will limit the examination of the texts to the single committee, to be ever faster, more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u29	It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u30	We're still serving something!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u31	It is a form of eviction of the legislator for the benefit of the executive! You are passing through a text that upsets the social organization of our country in the middle of the summer, after a politically intense year, which saw elections succeed ten months without interruption. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I would also like to raise a contradiction. With respect to other bills, such as the one for trust in public life, you have used the recurring argument of the time it takes to evaluate a law. The El Khomri law is one year old: why isn't this time taken? [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] What you refuse to do is to have a real public debate with the citizens of our country on this issue. A popular debate indeed takes time. You deploy a novlangue to make the projects illegible: "adapt", "liberate", "simplification", "pragmatism". Yes, of course – and "war is peace", "freedom is slavery", "ignorance is strength": I too read 1984 of George Orwell. Still, it's amazing to find the same strategies in your documents! [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the benches of the REM group]] For our part, we do not have the chance to have been touched by the grace of a "complex thought", as some claim, but we explain; and we will do the work of pedagogy and conviction in the street, by caravans in the popular neighborhoods, by door-to-door, etc., to explain the complete social reversal that you are operating. What dialogue can one have when one systematically obstructs, as you do, any attempt at co-construction? Several trade unions regret that none of their proposals have been taken into account. Some say: "We are cordially received, politely listened to, but absolutely not heard." With regard to parliamentary work, France had proposed 132 amendments to the text, but none had been accepted. On the other hand, the MEDEF, whose representativeness is never questioned, applauds the bill with both hands. You claim to be open to dialogue, but you are only open to Mr.Gattaz and his friends, as quick as you are to touch their stock-options once the layoffs plans have passed! I call for the rejection of these orders, so that we can carry out real parliamentary work, serious work! Fourth reason: another policy is possible. Let me, Madam Minister, give you other ideas for the future of our country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u32	Oh, no, no, no, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u33	You should listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u34	... ideas that are adapted to our time and to the needs of our people. First of all, we need a right to work for everyone. There is no general tax code per taxpayer, no education code per school, no public procurement code per community. It is the labour code that allows the wage earner to exist, to change jobs, to have confidence in one another, without perpetually having to negotiate everything. What is forbidden in a company, because it makes employees suffer, cannot be tolerated in the neighbouring company! The dismantling of the labour code is a white-seing given to employers, because at the same time you remove the Labour Inspectorate, which should on the contrary be protected. The corps of inspectors lost 20 per cent of its staff between 2007 and 2017; Only 26 student inspectors were recruited in 2017. However, the Labour Inspectorate, together with the workers, guarantees respect for the labour code and workers' rights. A different right per company would be tantamount to abolishing the trade, as this would make control by the Inspectorate more difficult, if not impossible. On the other hand, the weak means of the Labour and Justice Inspectorate lead to employers who fraud not being punished within a reasonable period of time, or remain unpunished. There is a need to regulate wage differentials from one to twenty, and to re-establish a tax system that relieves the middle classes and involves the millionaires. It is necessary to share work throughout life: vocational training, extension of compulsory schooling, retirement at 60 years at full rate, sixth week of paid leave, strict restoration of 35 hours. While we learned yesterday that there would be only 5% chance of limiting global warming to 2°C, a real ecological transition is needed, with a substantial public investment to boost the energy transition or soft transport sectors. In short, we must build a living society, which gives everyone the capacity to emancipate themselves. I call for the rejection of these ordinances to reflect on new political orientations, which meet the aspirations of as many as possible! If we have to free the job, we have to free it from finance. If you have to free the job, you have to free it from fear, fear of the next day, fear of losing your job. We invite all citizens who want to go down the street to protest our opposition to these ordinances, on September 12, at the call of the unions, and on September 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u36	The blurring of these orders became blurred as the debate began. The text of the Joint Joint Committee further aggravates the dangers. I will mention only one point: it confirms the possibility for the employer to hold a business referendum. It's the door open to all blackmail! Example: in 2008, at Goodyear, a corporate referendum had been held; the question was – listen carefully: "To safeguard your job, do you accept the change in organization of working time and its counterpart? » The blackmail is obvious! The Goodyear plant closed six years later. "Make efforts, we won't relocate"? Lie! [["Ah! »on the benches of the REM group]] Finally, I would like to read you the conclusion of the book. It is better than that, written on the basis of thousands of testimonies – thousands of testimonies of impotence, anger, put in words by a collective of youtubers citizens following a video of February 24, 2016, toured in order to denounce the bill of Myriam El Khomri. This conclusion is as follows: "Let's make our reality so strong that it overwhelms them, so that they can no longer ignore us or make an off-ground decision without us. It is from us, through us and with us that our lives must be built and directed. "For it is not only a reality that we share, it is also a dream. But a very serious dream. "We dream of a country that puts its citizens above the criteria of budgetary balance. "We dream of a country that guarantees a healthy and sustainable environment for all. "We dream of a country built on common sense, where the value of people comes first. "We dream of a country that protects all its children without distinction. "We dream of a country that gives all the best care, the best food, the best education. "We dream of a country that encourages us to give the best of ourselves. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u37	You dream a lot... It's time to wake up!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] "We demand dignified lives. We want to be able to be proud of ourselves, proud of what we do, proud of what we build. Just because we're better than that. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u39	In explanation of vote, Mr Fabien Di Filippo, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Minister, responsible opposition and eager to see our country emerge from the crisis as soon as possible, the Republicans Group will not vote on the motion to reject it in advance, tabled by our colleagues who have not been called upon to do so. I will not go back to the method of ordinances: we debated it at first reading. These orders will give you the means to act and the resulting responsibility. However, we will be a vigilant opposition, very vigilant,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u41	Submitted to the MEDEF!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u42	... with regard to the drafting of orders, and demanding, very demanding at the time of their ratification. The main challenge of our mandate is the fight against mass unemployment, which now affects one in ten French citizens, one in four young people, one in two people over fifty years of age. We will all be judged at this level – but this will be particularly the case with the Government and the majority. You will have the means to act, to restore oxygen to employees and businesses. Be on the rendezvous! This will require more than grandiose formulas, such as those I have just heard in the minister's mouth, in the gallery. Because from the beginning, what characterizes your mandate is the gap between big formulas and reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u43	You know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u44	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the LC group]] We do not take your action; We'll expect you at the time of these prescriptions. Ensure that they benefit both businesses and employees and, above all, allow them to create jobs again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u45	The next speaker is Mr Patrick Mignola, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u46	Notwithstanding the force of conviction of our colleague, Mr Panot, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not be persuaded. I will merely point out a major contradiction in his remarks. She cited a number of unacceptable situations, be they companies or individual cases – and we can all join in this denunciation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u47	Don't hesitate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u48	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] However, these cases occurred under the current Labour Code. It does not seem, therefore, a good thing to want to fight against his challenge even though he has been able to produce such effects!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u49	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u50	It is quite surprising and paradoxical that we want to be forced into a new labour law this summer, when the President of the Republic, in his nationalization of STX, proves that liberalism to all cries and the disengagement of the State are confronted, at some point, with contradictions such that we are obliged, in order to preserve an industrial tool in France, to return to the methods of a social State and of a State that mixes with economic questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u51	Momentarily!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u52	We support this motion because, as Mathilde Panot said very well, Mrs. the Keeper of the Seals, who was on these benches recently, has constantly explained to us that we cannot legislate, with regard to the law of moralization of public life, on any aspect relating to ministers and the executive, on the grounds that this was done for a year and that we must therefore wait to measure the effects of the law. In the name of what paradox are the fires of liberalism ever increasing, a year after the El Khomri law? Why go further in the reversal of standards, which you have gone so far as to push, one evening at twenty-three hours, not only at the level of companies, but also at the level of establishments? [["Oh! » on the benches of the REM group. – Applause on several benches of the LFI and GDR groups]] Why impose a law under which night work is a practice that should almost be developed, in contradiction to everything that chronobiologists say? Why do you want to cap the damages paid to the prud'hommes without putting at any time, Madam Minister, the problem of capping stock options, especially when, as HRD, we speculate on layoffs?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u53	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u54	No, I don't stop... Why break the CDI even further to the benefit of CDI project and CDD? Why include in the law that telework, which should be the subject of a fundamental reflection to be carried out together – including as regards managers – is the future of work organisation? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] All this was done in a few days, at the heart of the summer: it is far too fast to dismantle the labour code. We therefore call on our colleagues to vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u55	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u56	Our group will naturally vote in favour of the motion for a preliminary rejection put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) for several reasons which Mathilde Panot put forward very well, even if I will add a few arguments. First, the bill has not changed much from the one we opposed two weeks ago. It has nothing to surprise us, because convergence with the Senate was easy, in terms of a text and a method of pure liberal inspiration. In addition, the enabling law will allow the Government to do more or less what it wants, free from public debate. In addition, consultation with trade union organizations has raised more concerns than hopes. It has not given rise to any commitment on your part, Madam Minister, so everyone is anxiously waiting for what you will decide at the end of August. Finally, your bill represents a radical change in labour law philosophy, a change already emerging in the El Khomri law. I recall, although everyone here may recall, that this law has given rise to widespread public disapproval. Your haste and your method are therefore not in line with the much-needed debate on this issue in order to develop the 21st century labour code. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This text is therefore a regression; He chose one side against another, a minority against the majority of the people. As a result, it bears a fracturing of our country, for which you alone bear the responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u57	Mr Charles de Courson spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u58	[[Applause on the benches of the LC and REM groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] The Constructive Group will vote against the motion to reject. Listening to the spokesman for the group La France insoumée, I felt like I was in the 19th century. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on the benches of the LC and REM groups, and on several benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on several benches of the REM group]] Those who have worked in companies know that they are very diverse. Of course, abuses exist. But could we not also talk about well-managed companies, those where there is a real social dialogue, instead of making a France that would be Zola's? To paraphrase Jacques Brel, Mathilde didn't come back!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u59	The next speaker is Mr Aurélien Taché, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u60	Our colleagues in the La France insoumée group have presented us with a motion to reject a text which we have debated throughout the summer special session. You support, ladies and gentlemen of La France, that there is no social emergency in this country. But mass unemployment is a social emergency. And unemployment affects 25% of young people in France. You're talking about inequality. How do you intend to fight them without fighting unemployment? In this case, you embody fatality; For our part, we want everyone to find their place in our society. No one should be under house arrest, and the text we are debating will make it possible for no one to be under house arrest. This reform is the first step in a comprehensive overhaul of our social model, and the Minister has already had the opportunity to highlight it several times in our debates. The aim is to relax the social dialogue, to grant new freedoms and new security, to facilitate the use of telework, to secure the employment relationship and, finally, to increase the legal compensation for dismissal. This enabling bill is obviously the first stone to the building of this renovated model; It will be followed from the start by a comprehensive reform of vocational training and unemployment insurance. You are critical of the method, but a consultation has been carried out, with a total of 48 appointments: how dare you ignore it? This text was discussed and agreed; he was the subject of thirty-two hours of public debate in the Assembly, and thirty hours in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u61	We haven't reached thirty-nine hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u62	A total of 335 amendments were discussed and 45 were adopted, almost half of which were defended by the opposition. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We will therefore vote against this motion, because it is fundamental to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u63	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u64	In the general debate, Mr Gilles Lurton spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u65	Minister, the Joint Joint Committee, meeting yesterday afternoon, agreed on a joint text between the National Assembly and the Senate. From the first reading of this text, we approved it because we believe that it contains essential measures for our country, in order to respond to the disastrous employment situation left by your predecessors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u66	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u67	With more than 1.5 million new jobseekers, our country had never experienced such an increase. This is our main concern: to enable all these French people to return to work; and if the measures you recommend in this text allow, you will find us at your side to support them. However, Madam Minister, I wish to raise a paradox. We are coming to the end of the review of this enabling text when you have not yet completed the social consultation. In reality, the discussion of this bill will have looked like an unbridled race in which all the blows will have been allowed, whether it be on the Orders of the Day in haste, at the beginning of Parliament, even though MPs did not have any means of work, or indigent deadlines for tabling amendments. In spite of all this, Madam Minister, I recognize that you have succeeded in keeping national representation for a whole month waiting for answers that you are still not giving. Why would you do that anyway? As long as the concertation continues, as long as you multiply the tables, as long as you do not slice, as long as the ordinances are not written, as long as we do not know on which side the cutet will fall, we have no choice but to follow you. Please be aware, Madam Minister, that if we have been willing throughout the review of the text, we are not fooled. The main lesson of this text, in our view, is that it finally allows everyone to accept the need to foster social dialogue in small businesses. This is a point on which, as far as we are concerned, we have insisted from the beginning. However, we remain very concerned about the modalities of negotiations in the TPEs and SMEs, and believe that we have not obtained the answers we expected on this point. In committee, you promised us answers in session; In the Senate, you promised us answers; and in the Senate, you removed the wording proposed by the senators, with respect to the possibility of negotiating directly with the elected staff, and re-established a broad scope of authority enough to remain vague. Last morning, when the CMP was due to meet in the day, you confessed to us that the subject was not decided and would probably not be decided until the end of August. Minister, this is the heart of your text. The extension of the enterprise agreement makes sense only if we invent a new way of promoting social dialogue in small businesses; Otherwise, it will be enough to close the door of reform to more than half of the employees. Worse, it would be a risk of the widening of the gap between large companies, broken in social dialogue, and small structures lacking flexibility. The prescription trap leaves us no choice but to leave you the benefit of the doubt. Once again, the consultation should have taken place before the referral to Parliament. We are concerned that social dialogue should be pushed forward, that it should be carried out in disregard of parliamentarians. With regard to Article 2, we agree with the creation of a single body in undertakings with fewer than fifty employees, in order to merge staff delegate, works council and health, safety and working conditions committee within the same "economic social committee". An amendment adopted in the CMP aims to make it possible to set up a specific committee within the single body to deal with health, safety and working conditions. We want this option to remain optional, so that this specific committee is not created in companies that do not wish to do so. We also agree, in Article 3, with the setting of a ceiling and a schedule of compensations for workers' compensation, since the damages awarded by the councils of the workers in the event of dismissal without real and serious cause may vary greatly in similar cases. This situation effectively undermines the predictability of companies, which are reluctant to hire in CDI. Finally, we defended the "French perimeter", which led the judge to limit the comparison of the situation of the company in difficulty with the other subsidiaries of the same group located in France and belonging to the same sector of activity. We welcome the adoption of our amendment on this subject. We also approve, with regard to Article 5, the revision of the arrangements for reporting the different risk factors, their conditions of assessment, the arrangements for clearing and the arrangements for financing the penitential account, renamed the "prevention" account. Simplification of this account was essential for us, and we have been demanding it since the 2013 Pensions Act. Finally, section 9, relating to the one-year deferral of the tax source levy, was amended by the Senate and then rewritten in CMP. In conclusion, Madam Minister, the Republican Group is satisfied with the compromise reached yesterday in CMP. We will therefore take on our responsibilities, because we want to encourage employment, restore confidence, revive attractiveness, strengthen employee rights and strengthen social dialogue in both large and small enterprises. We want our country to move forward. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This authorization, we give it to you, but not without some reservations. We'll be set in a month. And because the devil nests in the details, we will be at the rendezvous of the ratification bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u68	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u69	[[Claims on several benches of the LR and GDR groups]] On behalf of my group, I want to begin by thanking the chair of the commission, our rapporteur and our colleagues in the Senate for the constructive work they have done with our chamber. I would also like to thank you in particular, Madam Minister, for your availability throughout our debates, despite the personal attacks you have suffered. [[Applause on the MODEM benches as well as on several benches in the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the MODEM benches as well as on several benches in the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR, GDR and FI groups]] [[Same movements]] If we are to admit that Mrs Pénicaud could hardly foresee, four years ago, when she was allocated stock options, what would be the circumstantial economic situation of the Danone company, when what is being blamed for it? For making money? For my part, in this forum of the National Assembly, I affirm that it is normal for brilliant employees to earn money, whether in wages, bonuses, participation, interest or even stock options! Thank you, minister, for showing that you can make a living in private before you become a minister! Your example and your stubbornness will therefore allow us to build a new balance between employees and employers and managers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u70	Are you talking snake, too?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u71	Go on, Mr. Mignola!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u72	[[Exclaims on many benches]] I hear you, colleagues: "between the master and the servant, it is freedom that oppresses and the law that frees"...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u73	Go on!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mr Mignola has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u75	It is quite surprising to refer to the Reverend Father Lacordaire who himself, when invoking the law, spoke of the law of God.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u76	You chose the best!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u77	[["We don't understand anything! » on the benches of the LR group]] Invoking a divine natural right to let the labor code as it is has something to surprise. For our part, we do not want to make a labour code for the master and the slave, because, in the face of the master, we must of course protect the employee, and control, prevent or even hinder the master, but by this way, if we are to consider that the company can be a crew where all work together, we hinder the skipper, therefore the teammates. So we need to find a balance between those who work together in companies – working together to succeed together – and, of course, getting the law...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u78	At the same time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u79	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the GDR, FI and NG groups]] Indeed: to preserve "at the same time" – you are progressing, my dear colleague – the employees of all exaggerations. Because there will still be rogue bosses and bad-faith employees!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u80	What about HRDs?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, a little calm!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u82	So we will need a law. This is precisely what we have done in this enabling law: by giving a central place to corporate agreements, we have not reversed the standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u83	What a great speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u84	We maintain a legal public order,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u85	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u86	... we maintain a branch public order, but we give companies some freedom of organisation. The employees, the company, the company will therefore be released but they will be secured. When we merge staff representative bodies, we maintain the CHSCTs, which will continue to be able to take legal action and whose funding will be guaranteed. I have also been pleased to hear the Government make a determined commitment to combat trade union discrimination because, even with a complex labour code, this struggle is still insufficiently organized. It is not acceptable that there is still so much trade union discrimination in our country today. By organizing this balance, trade union life, working conditions, society will be simplified, but protected. As far as baremization is concerned, of course, we are setting a schedule of compensations for workers...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u87	One million euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u88	... but we exclude discrimination and harassment. The company will be free of risk, but corporate ethics and our societal values will be guaranteed, for the benefit of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u89	Better than the Tonton gunners!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u90	While much remains to be done – the reduction of wage costs, the reform of vocational training, the reform of pensions, the right to unemployment for all – by empowering the Government, we have found a new balance between the security of economic actors and the freedom to organize enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u91	Suicide!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u92	This is how we can give new impetus to say to the companies that are already working well together, that we have heard them and that we are accompanying them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u93	The decoder?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u94	[[Extended exclamations on the FI and GDR benches]] ... and to those who have not yet heard the message that the company is a common good, that they can now move on to it, that they can strengthen social dialogue. This is how the French economy will be revived.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u95	Humility! Humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group as well as on some benches of the REM group. – Several members of the GDR Group and some members of the FI Group rise and cheer the speaker]] A little sick or a little barbulated, she needed prescriptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u97	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, a little calm. Everyone has five minutes to speak: we can listen, there is nothing insurmountable. A point of order allowed representatives of other groups to speak without interruption. You disrupted Mr. Mignola's intervention a lot. We can listen to each other, without seeking to cover the voice of the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u98	You were doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u99	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u100	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] For the Constructive Group, dialogue is not an empty word, be it social dialogue or dialogue between majority and opposition. Yes, we really believe in social dialogue. That is why we have kindly welcomed the reform of labour law that the Government is presenting today, hoping that it will make social dialogue a powerful lever to finally provide an effective response to the increase in unemployment. We also believe in the virtues of dialogue between the majority and the opposition, because we are convinced that artificial divisions must be removed from the best interests of the nation. As we conclude our consideration of this text today, the Government must demonstrate in concrete terms that it is also committed to promoting this dialogue with the social partners and Parliament. Indeed, we all know that the real challenge lies not in this authorization to proceed by ordinances, but in the development of the content of these ordinances and their ratification. In our view, this choice to use orders imposes duties on the Government. It requires it to demonstrate that the consultation with the partners in the social dialogue was not an umpteenth Grandma, but that it really allowed their concerns and proposals to be taken into account. It also requires that parliamentary groups be involved in the development of the content of orders, as we have asked you on several occasions, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u102	This request has so far been unanswered and I would therefore like to reiterate it, because if our group will vote in favour of this enabling bill earlier, it is not for us to give a blank text, but to send you two messages. Since August seems to be good for work, we are ready.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u103	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u104	The first message we want to send to you is that we share the findings on which this bill is based, as well as its broad directions. Like you, Minister, we believe that companies are running under the burdens and constraints, and that it is urgent to give them oxygen. Like you, we consider that employees are no longer really protected by the labour code, which has gradually become thicker, without really taking into account the social, economic or technological upheavals that have taken place worldwide over the past forty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u105	It's better to delete it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u106	Worse, we believe that the rigidity of our labour law is now generating distrust and is helping to create artificial and sterile oppositions between employees and employers. That is why we believe that in terms of organization and working time, we must put an end to chatty laws and promote collective bargaining. The multiplicity of staff representative bodies must also be overcome, which undermines the quality of social dialogue within the company. Our model is less and less effective in protecting employees, and sometimes creates barriers to hiring which, day after day, create unemployment and insecurity. In this perspective, we are in favour of creating a new form of employment contract, more adapted to the realities of the labour market, better responding to the economic reality of employers, and sometimes – often, even – to the expectations of employees. In the same way, we support a reform of the labour market, provided that it gives as much visibility to employers as it gives security to employees. Finally, that is why, like you, we believe that penitentiality must be taken into account through legible criteria, an easy-to-implement mechanism and increased support for prevention policies. The second message we want to send you by voting for this text is probably the most important one. Please know, Madam Minister, that we will be extremely demanding when we ratify the ordinances: we have supported the majority on this text and we are now waiting for it to rise to the challenge of unemployment, which is the first of the inequalities. We will not be content with a soft synthesis of the sometimes contradictory aspirations of social dialogue partners. We will also not be content with an out-of-ground text written in departmental offices: Madam Minister, you must rely on the knowledge of the field of elected officials, who face employment problems in their territories on a daily basis. It is now up to you to build a powerful reform, giving more protection where necessary, and more freedoms whenever possible, for both employers and employees. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group as well as on some benches of the REM group]] It is on the basis of these considerations that our group will determine when the orders are ratified.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u107	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u108	So here we are at the heart of the summer to endorse the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee that took place last night. Seen from my seat of opposition, this CMP took place in a spirit of concord, of which I cannot say whether it is the result of the only talent – immense – of our rapporteur or of the political proximity of the two majorities. To tell you the truth, of course, I know the answer to that question. I will not go back to the method, we have had the opportunity to do so on many occasions: it has stifled the parliamentary debate. We had to be all actors in the reform process; We have remained mere spectators. That's unfortunate. Ladies and gentlemen, this text is not that of a renewal of our social model. This is not the case for a new articulation of the needs of companies and employees. This is clearly not the case for new security for employees. Not a line on any employee protection. Not a new right, not an additional security in this text. I regret that our amendments in this direction have been systematically rejected. I am thinking of the taxation of short-term contracts, in a country which has one third of fixed-term contracts of less than one month throughout Europe. Madam Minister, you have affirmed your commitment to the CDI as a model, but you have also told us that it is urgent to wait. I am thinking of the mandatory presence of employee directors in large companies. You have told us your commitment to strengthening democracy in the company, but you have referred us back to the ongoing consultation. Finally, I am thinking of strengthening the prerogatives of the staff representative institutions: you have proclaimed your commitment to trade union representation, but at the same time you have put an end to the regional joint committees which were to ensure the representation of millions of French. [[Snakes on the benches of the FI group]] Minister, with skill but without convincing us, you made yours the formula of the snake Kaa: "Trust...". Throughout these debates, when we asked you for clarity and listening, you have constantly asked us to have confidence: trust in social dialogue, to the point of depriving us of the results of the consultation, which we were not aware of until the day after the law was passed; trust in your diagnosis and in your very summary impact assessment, systematically refusing to evaluate previous laws whose ink was barely dry; I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But how could we have confidence when you do not give any sign of openness to our concrete proposals, which seemed to be in line with your reform, since they gave more rights to the assets, strengthened the actors in the social dialogue and secured labour relations for both employers and employees? The majority behaved like opposition. Never did she wonder about the merits of what we were proposing, preferring to be draped in her certainties and sometimes even in an ideology that consists of having none. When we proposed creating new security, you preferred to adopt more flexible amendments. I am thinking in particular of this amendment by our colleagues, the Republicans, to which the Government was in favour and which, in a few seconds, ended twenty-two years of constant jurisprudence, preferring foreign investment to the protection of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u109	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u110	However, there is no need to arbitrate between the two. Madam Minister, you have kept reminding us that this text would be the fruit of pragmatism and that it would transcend divisions to be neither of the right nor of the left. The day after the CMP, I wonder: is this text a little left?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u111	Neither left nor right, that's true.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u112	Less rights cannot constitute additional security. I am thinking of the creation of the construction contract, a CDD without precaution of precariousness, the misgivings, the introduction of a right to unfair dismissal and the death of the CHSCT. But I have to be honest. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this text will have made it possible to transcend the divisions... on the right. Minister, you have a preference for precarious employment, for the proliferation of mini-jobs and for inequalities. This is where the French will judge you. Madam Minister, you have refused to respond in substance to the concerns we have raised. Yet they were neither illegitimate nor unfounded. We shared them with the social partners you are consulting. You have confined yourself to referring us to consultation, good feelings and subsequent reforms of which we do not know anything about. For you, therefore, this has never been the time, nor the place, to propose to fight against job insecurity or to work on the management of occupational transitions. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u114	Yesterday, you informed us of the timetable for work with the social partners until the final adoption of the ordinances. I have informed you of a request from the New Left Group that the representatives of the political groups be received at the beginning of September to be informed and involved in the ongoing work. You were in favour of it yesterday, I have no doubt that this is still the case today. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, Madam Minister, I would like to share with you my conviction. Major social reforms cannot make up for a sincere citizen's debate, a thorough social dialogue and a parliamentary debate that respects the rights of the opposition. For the time being, while we have to build the social model for the next thirty years, this reform seems to us to be seriously unbalanced. Our concerns remain intact. Our fear is that this text will build a dual society with, on the one hand, the winners of a happy globalization and, on the other, the losers of an unfair globalization. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] That is why the New Left Group will vote against this bill to enable the measures to be taken by order to strengthen social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u115	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor. May I remind you that the speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u116	At the beginning of our work on this text, I mentioned, as you may recall, the "small minority, radicalised and unrepresentative fraction of employers" that, from our point of view, this project served. In case she gets impatient, it's there: we can tell her that her gift is almost ready. The Joint Joint Committee, which brought together a handful of members of Parliament and senators yesterday, packed it up. All we have to do is tie the decorative ribbon, and the trick will be played. What is this bill, indeed, if not a piece of legislation that serves the particular interests of some in proportions that they themselves did not expect? In this text, you do not respond to any of the major employment issues. No response on the necessary revival of activity; There is nothing about the need for solidarity protectionism in order to break with free trade and the social and ecological disasters which it sows. You have no inventiveness. You are installed in the cockpit, but the plane is set on autopilot and the trajectories are defined in advance, with your support, by Brussels. This bill, like the sequence that will end with this extraordinary session, marks the beginning of the end of Macron illusion. There is no change: there are only three-band pooling skills and shots to perpetuate old policies that have demonstrated their inefficiency in the service of the general interest, but their radical effectiveness when it comes to serving the interests of a strict minority. Let's not forget that our debates will at least have allowed us to establish a dictionary of macroism. This is characterized first of all by the immoderate use of a lexical field which suggests that the employees of this country will become professional gymnasts, as I say, exceptional contortionists: so much flexibility, so much agility, so much flexibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u117	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u118	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] What you call "safe working relationships" is actually facilitating economic layoffs. What you call "promoting long-term visibility" is allowing companies to know in advance what they will be charged for unfair dismissals, thanks to the baremization of damages. What you call "encouraging investment in France", by limiting to the national perimeter the assessment of the economic difficulties justifying dismissal, is to allow practices that could lead to more relocations and to further promote the deindustrialization to which our country is subjected. In short, you call it a "strengthening of the social dialogue" which is nothing more than the strengthening of the employer's arbitrariness at the service of the shareholder's desire and the setting in motion of the employees. The relations between the majority in the assembly and the Senate right are illuminating: one puts the nail on the board, the other pats on the hammer. I will cite as an example the referendum at the initiative of the employer. It is not new, and we know the results it produces. Should I remind you that in September 2015, during a referendum organised by the management of Smart, the transition from 37 to 39 hours without pay increases and with rotating schedules obtained 56% of the votes, with of course blackmail to relocation? A referendum is not a guarantee of democracy when you vote the gun on the temple. As for the national scope to justify economic dismissals, the Whirlpool case is a school case. When the group decided to relocate to Poland, the dividends had increased and the CEO's salary was almost equivalent to those of all the employees of the factory whose relocation was planned! From now on, multinationals can even more easily deny their situation and offer themselves economic redundancies whose aim is obviously not to preserve their financial health or to ensure their survival, but to increase their dividends. Anyway, for us here, the battle is just beginning. I announce to you, we have great reinforcements outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u119	Aaah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u120	We will continue to explain all summer, everywhere, the intentions hidden in this text – even though, through your own practices, you have already begun to fall masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u121	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u122	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group as well as on several benches of the GDR group]] We will be behind the unions when we return and we take the initiative of a large gathering, on 23 September, against what we call the social coup de force.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u124	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u125	[[Smile]] Thus, the REM majority of the National Assembly has found common ground with the LR majority of the Senate. What's more normal to adopt an ultraliberal text, labeled "MEDEF Satisfied" hashtag "right"? As a political revolution, here is a project that resumes and aggravates the logics of the world before. You have chosen to play the game foot on the floor, seeking to enjoy the torpor of the summer, surfing on presidential popularity before its erosion, making Parliament a recording chamber. We know too little, but enough to say that it is to a law of social demolition that you will give your name, Madam Minister. What new rights for employees? What collective guarantees? What social progress? Your law, which everyone here calls "labour law", is presented in three stages. First, you will make the labour code a sieve, giving a normative role to the branch and the company. Secondly, you will merge staff representative institutions and generalize the use of corporate referendums to bypass trade union organisations. Third, you will reduce the scope of assessment of economic redundancies, raise the thresholds triggering an employment safeguard plan procedure, expand the use of CDI "Canada Dry" which will ultimately be only precarious contracts. And so many other things we don't know yet... The subject of the social dialogue that you are announcing will therefore be primarily the economic break and the social regression. You promise security to employers to lay off and make it worse, and you take it away from employees. Who will benefit from it? Not small businesses! Minister, we have asked you on many occasions whether the financialization of the economy is not the main cause of the problems, whether it should not be addressed, and we have made proposals to that effect. You looked elsewhere. Without prejudging your personal intentions, what we have learned in recent days is an ordinary testimony of the possibility of making profit from job destruction. We proposed to ban it. This also shows how poorly used and unevenly distributed the wealth created in the enterprise. The level of remuneration of shareholders in large companies is indecent and, as a matter of law, is subject to spoliation. That is also what is revolting, my dear and dear colleagues; And that is what you are unfortunately going to encourage. We spent the week talking about trust in public life; But the Republic is damaged, damaged by the power of money that seeks to insinuate itself everywhere, by the renunciation of honouring its egalitarian promise, allowing the privileges of some to flourish. The wealth of the ten richest people in our country has jumped by 35% in a year! That is why your entire law and your explanations are disqualified in advance. Your government is on the side of stock options, which are damages – but for what damage? – shareholders, damages to which one does not touch: double standards, double standards... You said it yourself in committee: "It starts with the shareholders who have to be taken into account, who have put their money, they need a return..." This system is destructive: there are new gifts without compensation. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We call for the growth of this public debate that you did not want, in order to force yourself to take into consideration this social reality that you do not want to see. Because we do not want you to work in the world of "milling grain" for CAC 40 harvests, we hope for a large joint popular commission at the beginning of the year. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We ask you to clarify today the meaning of the reforms that will dynamit a social model that you have described as "unsuited" in the press in recent days, so that our people will have an overall vision when they return home, when they mobilize. We will be on the side of the workers who resist and demand that we finally move ahead: that of social progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u126	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u127	The reform that we are about to vote on is aimed at giving employees and employers more freedom and security. The enabling bill thus sets the framework for the negotiations and will allow the rapid implementation of the measures expected by the French and on which the President of the Republic has committed himself. Its progress is numerous; I'll call back the main ones here. Through this text, we allow a new articulation of the company agreement and the branch agreement, which amounts to an extension and security of the scope of collective bargaining. In keeping with the hierarchy of standards, these provisions will create a capacity for initiative that is welcome in companies. The law also takes into account the problems faced by small and medium-sized enterprises, which are known to differ from those of large groups. This, from my point of view, is a major step forward since the majority of jobs are carried out by the TPEs and SMEs. Article 2 proposes to simplify and better organise the social dialogue within the company, for the benefit of employers and employees, despite the claims of some. Thus, by merging staff representative institutions, it enables cross-cutting issues that affect both business economic strategy and safety and working conditions to be addressed. This article also provides for the strengthening of the means of social dialogue by accompanying trade union representatives and employees engaged in trade union activities through more rights to training and in-depth reflection on trade union paths. The third part of the text concerns the legal security of labour relations. It makes it possible to give greater visibility to labour law by digital means; to provide a model type of letter of dismissal to protect against formal defects, in particular for small businesses; to regulate damages in the event of irregular dismissal, unless the employer fails to do so of a particular gravity such as harassment or discrimination; Finally, to increase statutory severance benefits – an aspect that may not have been sufficiently emphasized and which is part of the consultation process. Thus, Article 3 encourages the use of conciliation. It also consolidates the legal framework for telework, a possibility widely supported by employees. At the end of the day, after thirty-two hours of debate at first reading and 335 amendments discussed in the National Assembly, almost thirty hours of debate and 247 amendments discussed in the Senate, it can be said that this text was debated and amended in order to give a clear and precise framework for the Government's action. Finally, the CMP allowed the remaining disagreements between the two chambers to be resolved and enriched the text. We have been able to find the last points of convergence necessary for its completion, which is indicative of a clear, consensual, collaborative and responsible enabling bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u128	Well! That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u129	Exactly! By voting on this text, we allow the Government to propose orders in accordance with our line of national representation as early as September. It must also be made clear again: in parallel with the legislative procedure, the Government has carried out a series of unprecedented bilateral consultations...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u130	History!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u131	... with the various trade unions and employers' organisations. The main part of the framework is now laid down, as the Minister pointed out, which came back yesterday to the Committee on Social Affairs. The visit revealed the quality of the dialogue between the Government and all parliamentarians on the text. National representation will also have the opportunity to vote once again when we consider the ratification bill, which will come before us at the beginning of the year. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In total, for both formal and substantive reasons, the REM group will vote for this enabling bill with enthusiasm and optimism for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u132	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u133	The Conference of Presidents decided that a vote would be taken on the draft law as a whole, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Thibault Bazin, for the Republican Group and for a maximum of five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u134	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we, the Republicans, want to end mass unemployment, and that ambition should be shared by all of you. This must be done through structural reforms, which the current majority does not seem to be in a hurry to implement. This bill is a very inadequate response to the economic and social emergency we know. Of course, we highlight the progress made on the majority of empowerment issues. We too want to free up activity in this country, freeing companies from the barriers that block them. We want to ease labour relations, that social dialogue is not just an idea, but a reality in all companies, including small ones. We have for a long time been carrying out numerous measures contained in this text: more social democracy, with the possibility for the employer to be at the initiative of a referendum to validate a collective agreement; more legibility in terms of penitibility, with the long-awaited simplification of the reporting arrangements for four of the risk factors in the prevention account; more simplification, with the merger of staff representative bodies into a single body – we hope that the CHSCT sub-committee that can be set up within the single body does not mean a re-scheduling; more investment, with the inclusion of the "French perimeter" when the economic difficulties of subsidiaries belonging to an international group are assessed, which must be a premium for localization, while ensuring a fight against social optimisation. There are still a few regrets on the substance. You have retreated on the removal of the tax at source – to better blow it up, I hope, permanently thereafter. Another regret, not least, is that you are not responding at this stage to the need to relax the negotiating arrangements for SMEs. As you know, the majority of employers with less than fifty employees are without trade union representatives – 55% of employees work for a company without trade union representatives! A real step forward for social democracy would have been to allow them to conclude collective agreements directly with elected staff representatives or, in their absence, with staff. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a major issue. The extension of the enterprise agreement makes sense only in the context of a significant relaxation of the social dialogue in small businesses. With regard to form, Madam Minister, you have made the choice to mix social and parliamentary calendars. You have chosen to make Parliament a recording chamber at this stage. You made the choice of orders, without giving all the arbitrations to our national representation. You have made the choice of sailing on sight. The manoeuvring is clever, but we now see all the sons. Postponing the conclusions of social dialogue once again creates many expectations on both sides.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u135	Come to the demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u136	You are on a ridge path that will become narrower and narrower. As you know, we are suspended from the conclusions of your round table on negotiations in small businesses. If you had been concerned about parliamentary democracy as well as social democracy, we could have participated with you in seeking the balance to be struck between simplification for companies and the protection of employees. You must not be deceived, because the orders will be enforced immediately. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] We give you the authorization you ask, despite the working methods, despite the tight deadlines, despite the vagueness that persists on some topics. The Republican Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u137	That's all for it! Little player!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u138	But where's the opposition?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u139	However, our vote is not a blank vote. We remain vigilant. We reserve the right to form a final judgment when the orders are drafted. Minister, will you really take small businesses into account? Will they really be able to access social dialogue when they have no trade union delegate? These are the questions we've been asking you for weeks. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the REM group]] Minister, your responsibility is great. Companies and employees in our country are waiting for your choices. The future of our economic and social system is in your hands. Do not miss an opportunity that will not be found in this legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u140	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u141	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u142	The fight against unemployment must be a priority, and it is our top priority. Our fellow citizens have trusted us to provide a strong, effective response and to find lasting solutions. As many expectations as we cannot disappoint. That is why the members of the MODEM Group will vote unreservedly in favour of this bill enabling the measures to be taken by order to strengthen social dialogue. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. – Applause on several benches of the REM group]] Colleagues, could you make a little less noise, please?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u143	You're right, Congresswoman!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u144	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group. – Applause on several benches of the REM group]] This text is the cornerstone of the determined action that the Government and the majority have committed themselves to promoting both the competitiveness of our enterprises and the protection of employees, in order to revive growth and job creation in our country. It will be complemented in the coming months by other major reforms, which must be looked at not one by one... If you're not interested, I'll turn to you to talk.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u145	It's personal, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u146	They must be seen as a global project, a goal, which will enable our country to return to growth in a sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u147	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let Mrs Elimas speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u148	I am thinking in particular of the five major projects announced by the President of the Republic: the reduction of wage costs to better pay the job; the opening of unemployment insurance to resignations and self-employed persons; reform of our vocational training and apprenticeship; and reform of our pension system. It is by carrying out these five essential projects that we can finally thoroughly renovate our social model. As a first step, the bill that we are about to pass will make it possible to reform our labour law, which unfortunately now creates too much insecurity for the French and leaves our companies insufficient flexibility and oxygen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u149	It's the dismissal permit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u150	In France, the social dialogue in the company is too formal or even bursting. There is a dispersal and complexity that insecures employees and employers and that does not allow staff representatives to have an overview capable of influencing the company's strategy. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We therefore unequivocally support the Government's willingness to act quickly and effectively, to enhance simplification and readability, and we are confident that this objective will be achieved through the use of ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u151	It's wax!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u152	At the same time, we welcome the fact that the in-depth dialogue led by the Government has enabled the social partners to be closely involved in this wide-ranging reform movement. As such, we thank you, Madam Minister, for keeping us informed at every stage of the negotiations, in this particularly constrained timetable that has been yours, but also ours. Our group, which is attached...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u153	To be tied, he's tied!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u154	[[Same movements]] ... and believes in social dialogue, welcomes the balance that emerged from this consultation. We hope that this spirit of constructive dialogue will continue, especially when the Government presents the text of the ordinances. Far from sterile agitations and polemics – we are still there... – we will indeed ensure that the spirit of this reform is preserved to the end, in particular as regards the complementarity between branch agreements and enterprise agreements, the place of social dialogue in the enterprise, but also the security of labour relations, particularly as regards the methods of dismissal. Our discussion, I sincerely believe, has been necessary and fruitful. At the beginning of this term of office, the examination of this bill has been a learning experience for the many new Members of Parliament we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u155	And for the vice presidents!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u156	A hard-working apprenticeship!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u157	I have no doubt that in the next five years we will have the opportunity to address together many issues of importance to the future of our country, with, I hope, more serenity. [["Ah! » on some benches of the LR group]] I would like to thank you once again, Madam Minister, for your openness and your listening. Some important amendments made by the MODEM and related groups were passed during the consideration of this bill. In general, our debates have enriched this text, bringing parliamentary democracy to life, which we can only welcome. [["Five minutes! Five minutes! » on several benches]] Finally, Madam Minister, the deputies of our group will remain vigilant about the content of the orders that will be presented by the Government at the end of August, with particular attention to the new rules surrounding dismissal in the interests of employees...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u158	Thank you for closing, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u159	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] ... or a look at small enterprises without representative institutions. We will remain fully engaged with the Government so that this long-awaited reform can truly reconcile the values of the company with those of solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, some are using their desks to try to interrupt the speaker who is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u161	Oh, no! Voice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u162	You will have noticed that I have shown some flexibility towards speakers of all sensitivities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u163	It's a little variable geometry, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u164	I'm the one who says time's up. Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor for the Constructive Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u165	With this reform, the stakes are immense. If we are finally to provide a rapid and effective response to the rise in unemployment, we must improve the competitiveness of our enterprises, anticipate the profound changes linked to the emergence of a new world, open to trade, evolving at all speeds, but also fight against the precariousness of employees, improve their protection and their ability to train and secure their career paths. This means that we will shoulder our responsibilities by supporting the majority as long as it takes this path. Moreover, we will do so whenever the reforms that you propose go in the right direction, without compromise, without being undermined by partisan interests, without being trapped in political postures, with the will and ambition to dialogue with all men and women of good will, in order to create convergences useful to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u166	We're not at Mass, we're in Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u167	Nevertheless, as we have already mentioned, we will be extremely demanding when we ratify the ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u168	Vigilants!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u169	We have supported the majority on this text and we expect it to be up to date now in the fight against unemployment, which is the worst and the first of the inequalities. We will not be content with a weak synthesis, but we want you to be able to achieve a powerful reform that takes into account the questions and proposals of the social partners and of Parliament. With regard to the one-year deferral of the source levy contained in this bill, we support it, without prejudging its outcome, whether it is abandonment or an amended implementation. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group as well as on some benches of the REM group]] Our group will vote in favour of this enabling bill, without giving you a blank, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u170	The next speaker is Mr Joël Aviragnet, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u171	I could in turn quote Henri Lacordaire, with "the freedom that oppresses and the law that frees." Because he was a man very close to liberal ideas, some might even call him a progressive. But he had understood well that social gains had to be protected at the time of the French Revolution. Today, however, the Liberal side wishes to do precisely the opposite: to give more freedom by weakening the labour code. It is a fault and an incomprehension of the world of work. In considering this bill of authorization to adopt by ordinance measures to strengthen social dialogue, Parliament discussed at length the framework within which these ordinances would amend the Labour Code. I regret that we have not devoted a single minute to the very content of these ordinances. As far as method is concerned, the Socialist Group contests the very use of orders, which, I would remind you, are a blank cheque given to the Government to reform the Labour Code. We move from the role of actors to that of observers. In a democracy, this raises serious questions about the role of our institutions and the place given to the legislative power. While it is true that the ordinances have made great social progress in the past, it should be recalled that in this case they are not justified by urgency or by the technicality of the case. Therefore, I do not go back to the conditions under which this bill was examined, nor to the supposed social dialogue, which seems to shine by its absence. But let me talk about the substance, if I may, because it is important for our fellow citizens to know the deep disagreements that distinguish us. You want the CDI to be generalised; We are opposed to this because it would lead to the precarisation of workers. Indeed, this employment contract is even less advantageous than the CSD since its term is not known and it would not give rise to the payment of precarious allowances. You are in favour of a corporate referendum at the initiative of the employer; On the other hand, we want to strengthen the social dialogue and avoid circumvention of trade union organisations, which you practice without assuming the political consequences. You are in favour of the salary scale; We are opposed to it. You set the reference scope for national economic redundancies; We believe that this is discrimination between, on the one hand, TPEs and SMEs, and, on the other hand, the major global groups that have the opportunity to organise the accounting adjustments allowing them to resort to these redundancies. By moving it from a prevention system to a reparation system, you question the prevention of penitibility, even though it is one of the greatest social advances in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u173	On all these points, you will find in front of you a firm and determined New Left group, which will systematically oppose the precarisation of workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u175	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] We would have liked to have worked with you on new social protections, on taking into account the digital age in work or on a new taxation of short contracts, but your many passages in force, in the framework of this and other texts, have not allowed the work of co-construction that we call for. In these circumstances, the New Left Group will vote against the bill of authorization to take by ordinance measures to strengthen social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u177	[["Oh, it's the wolf! »on the benches of the LR group]] The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u178	Neither the rain of truisms on the virtues of social dialogue, nor the rain of poncifs on the love that must be carried between the social partners make us lose sight of the essential: from now on, if your project succeeds, in the social field, the law is no longer the law; It no longer has the last word since a simple business agreement, or even an establishment within an enterprise, can undo it. The principle of favour which has, from the beginning, animated all social law is reversed. Here we are, my dear colleague, at this time of the nineteenth century that you mentioned. For the battle for the Labour Code began on March 14, 1896, when Socialist MP Arthur Groussier, who was sitting here next to Jean Jaurès, put forward for the first time a text proposing to codify social issues. He had already the patience that must still animate us in the battle that we are leading, since it took us until May 1910 to see the conclusion, for the first time, of this code of labour, the one that you are in the process of undoing. I don't believe you're driven by social rage; I will not accuse you of this, even though I have not forgotten your acclaims at the mention of the wonders that come true when combined stock-options and dismissals are combined, nor this moment of the evening when you exploded in applause as we were pointing at and denouncing the unions – which has always been in our eyes a most certain political signature. No, you sincerely believe that the less rights, the better the market, by the invisible hand that moves it, will allocate goods and develop production. You're the wrong century! Only the stability, predictability and security of high professional qualifications guarantee economic development and above all the transformation that our production apparatus must achieve at all costs. Tomorrow, August 2nd, will be the day of the transition when the Earth will go into debt with itself because the production model we use is destroying everything. It is therefore necessary to change everything – to change equipment and production processes, to change and to raise the qualifications of employees – in order to meet the challenge of replacing the carbon and fossil energies that are ruining the planet. The real challenge is there, and not in the level of profitability of the actions, despite the ability of some perverse and neurotic individuals to constantly accumulate, more and more, a fortune of which we do not know what they will do at the end. That's the situation. We have the right not to claim the same vision of the world, whose developments I see in individual behaviors. That's the bottom of the case. Predictability, stability, ecological planning, raising the level of qualifications: this is what modern industry and economic activity are, as we understand them. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Hued on the benches of the REM group]] That is why, after measuring our words – and we have tried to demonstrate this to you throughout the debate – we describe what you have just done and that you are preparing to do a social coup, because it is a reversal of the hierarchy of norms. In these circumstances, it is with consequence and respect for our own word that we announce it to you: we will not let you down a metre of ground, as long as discussion and the balance of forces are possible. What is not settled amicably will be settled in the balance of power. We won't let go.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u179	Like Caracas! This is your model!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u180	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We call on the unions to join the call to protest on 23 September. We say to the brave people, to those who only have their job to live: defend yourselves, brave people, do not let yourselves be done! Look at them, they're talking with a whip in their mouth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u181	Long live Chavez! Long live Maduro! Long live Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u182	No, it's called democracy! Yes, it's silly: I'm talking about ballot papers and demonstrations! [[Applause on the benches of the IF group, whose members rise, and of the GDR group. – Exclaims and hue on the benches of the REM group]] That's what I had to tell you. I now give you an appointment wherever this game will be played. You're not done with us! You ate your white bread and at the first opportunity, you, not us, will stumble!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u183	Remember, Melenchon, the first heads to fall!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u184	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u185	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Less than a year after the well-known El Khomri law, this debate arouses class reflexes. By going back into a text that copies our European neighbours, when we know that these liberal solutions are not working, you have decided to try the Labour Code as if the employees and their representatives were responsible for the bad fates your liberal policies have been holding them for too many years. So unsure of winning the support of public opinion, so unsure of your own majority, so contemptuous of Parliament that the new procedure envisages muzzling even more,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u187	... you have drawn inspiration from the passage into force of 49.3 but this time having recourse to the ordinances to make possible, at the end of the day, whatever the arguments developed, one simple thing: to be able to lay off in peace. From reform to reform, the philosophy that you carry remains the same: making employees the only variable for adjusting company order books, precarising the weakest in the name of the competitiveness objectives of our companies, unblocking every time you have the opportunity our social gains, to make – Bruno Le Maire has been clear in the Committee on Economic Affairs – every day a little more the belly dance in front of finance. Your draft, voted with the applause of the new world and the right, leaves you, whatever you say, room for manoeuvre to reverse the hierarchy of norms and put an end to the fundamental principle of labour law that the law protects the weakest. Under the guise of negotiations as close as possible to the ground, it is in fact a matter of excluding the law and the trade-union negotiation in order to outsource to companies the power to enact social norms, depriving themselves, wherever possible, of the opinion of the trade-union organizations. Your objective is clear to us as, tomorrow, for employees: to make labour law the law of the enterprise, by making the application of the law marginal, subsidiary, optional. In addition to this, there is a deception: while pretending to strengthen social dialogue, you are making every effort to weaken the trade union organisations that are the players in it. This is illustrated by the debate we have had on the unique, dramatic body of asbestos, a tragedy for the health of our employees. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Finally, the third part of this text is based on the most absurd liberal idea that redundancies should be facilitated in order to relaunch hiring. I want to say it with seriousness and seriousness: to reintroduce the old plan of capping labour compensation, at the moment when we discover that the surplus-values of stock-options, they, are not capped when the layoffs are at the rendezvous, is for us – even if it is legal – a humiliation or a class provocation. In the midst of a debate on the moralization of public life, this marks an indelible stain on your bad labour law break-up project. All these points represent real challenges. For tomorrow you want a society that is more unjust and less supportive, while we have made proposals to increase the SMIC, to fight against precarious contracts, to avoid the unbearable turpitudes of which you are now the incarnation, which consist of enriching themselves by licenciant since the law allows it. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on some benches of the NG group]] The GDR Group cannot subscribe to such a company which, far from reviving employment, will increase the widespread precariousness of the world of work. That is why, with enthusiasm, strength and agreement with the social movement that will only grow from this summer onwards, we will vote against this bad project.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u188	The next speaker is Mr Aurélien Taché, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u189	From one side to the other, we should share at least one common objective: to reduce unemployment. Unemployment is always suffering, financial, of course, but also social.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u190	What a truism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u191	The unemployed come to doubt their place in society, the role they can play in it. We differ on the method: some here seem to imagine that the Crown could be the sole employer. But let us be glad that this job struggle allows us to go beyond the old divides. Yesterday, the Senate and the National Assembly agreed on a final version of this text, which we are pleased to be able to vote this afternoon. The first Joint Joint Committee of the Fifteenth Parliament, dealing with a text of fundamental importance, was concluded and we welcome it. This is rare enough to be recalled, as the differences between our chambers have been strong in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u192	And what was his name, the Minister of Economy, in recent years? Emmanuel Macron, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u193	But to agree with each other is the least that parliamentarians can do, as the expectations of our fellow citizens are pressing. We know these expectations: to restore confidence in companies, to encourage them to hire, and to empower employees to engage in a genuine business dialogue. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we assume the primacy of the contract over the law when it gives new rights or saves employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u194	To safeguard the job you have to do the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u195	In the same process of progress, we want to include in the law a new articulation of branch agreements and company agreements. It is a signal of confidence that we give every company and every employee to finally enter into a dialogue between those who are most concerned. That is also why we wanted to simplify the landscape of staff representative institutions. Their merger must improve the efficiency of the negotiations and give more room to dialogue in the company. Trust must also be present at the time of hiring. That is why the law will now regulate damages in the event of dismissal, to the exclusion, of course, of those resulting from discrimination or harassment. We therefore set a legible and secure scale for both employees and the employer. Readability is an additional asset for the employee in the hiring process. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] The French expect us to keep our promises and to live up to the challenges facing our country. We must address mass unemployment, of which young people are the first victims: it is a social emergency. And what are you proposing for that, ladies and gentlemen, who sit on the left of this House? Nothing, absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u196	We propose the future in common!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u197	We are collectively committed to providing more freedom and security to employees and businesses in our country. We will fulfil this promise today, giving a new breath and new means to social dialogue. This gives workers more power: it is indeed a true social democracy that our country needs. Let us leave it to each company to adapt and develop its own working methods: I am thinking, for example, of telework that will allow many families to better reconcile personal and working life. Employers and employees have every interest in cultivating this agreement that we propose to include in the law, and that some here, who want nothing to change, seem so dreaded. Because we believe in collective intelligence, we place greater emphasis on corporate agreements. Our honourable senators have focused on small businesses and have given them more flexibility to conclude these agreements. But we also empower the Government to sanctify a number of areas for which the law or the branch agreement will prevail. Critics of this bill blame us for weakening employees' rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u198	Yes! It's a draft law of submission to the employers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u199	We know that this is not true: it is even exactly the opposite! We, as parliamentarians, must consider this bill as a sign of humility,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u200	Submission!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u201	...by which we agree to hand over to the players the keys to the negotiation. Through this text, we choose to give our trust to employees and employers, because they are the ones who know the specifics of their profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u202	The unions are against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u203	The employees are against it, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u204	Without legal certainty, no economic performance. In addition to the new freedoms, new security is added, as labour relations have nothing to gain from uncertainty. To do this, we shed light on the shaded areas that represent so many obstacles to hiring. Such security therefore serves everyone. However, increasing company safety should not be done at the expense of employees. That is why I will conclude by quoting the commitment you made, Madam Minister, to increase the severance benefits as soon as you return. I welcome this: that is what the employees expect from us. That is the meaning of our commitment: to refocus social dialogue on companies, to inform employers' decision-making, and to further strengthen the rights of employees. The reform that we will endorse by voting on this bill involves profound changes and accompanies the evolution of society and the world of work. It is a balanced text with new freedoms and rights. That is what we owe to the French: to act, only to act, and not to do the effects of sleeves in this rostrum!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u205	Faster!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u206	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] We are a vigilant majority. Colleagues, in voting on this enabling bill, we have made the choice of accompanying the Government towards a reform that will open up social dialogue and ultimately facilitate the hiring of our seniors, our young people, and all those who no longer see how to join the labour market.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u207	I put to the vote the whole of the enabling bill to take by order measures to strengthen social dialogue, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-08-01-E1029.u208	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion of the simplified procedure for the consideration of three bills authorizing the approval of international agreements; Discussion of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Protocol to the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation and the Protocol to the Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Fixed Platforms Located on the Continental Shelf; Discussion at second reading of the bill ratifying the Order Amending the Legislative Part of the Financial Courts Code. The meeting is adjourned.
