ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u1	I declare the 15th Parliament of the National Assembly open.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u2	Under Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the six youngest Members present are called upon to serve as secretaries until the election of the Bureau. These are Mr. Ludovic Pajot, Ms. Typhanie Degois, Mr. Lénaick Adam, Mr. Pierre Henriet, Mr. Robin Reda and Ms. Bénédicte Peyrol. The Assembly's age bureau is thus constituted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u3	Pursuant to Article L.O. 179 of the Electoral Code, I have received from the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the list of elected deputies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u4	Decrees on the composition of the Government were published in the Official Gazette of 20 and 22 June 2017. I would like to recall that MPs appointed as members of the Government cannot take part in the elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u5	I regret to bring to the attention of the National Assembly the deaths, on 21 March and 5 May 2017, of our colleagues in the previous legislature, Henri Emmanuelli and Corinne Erhel.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u6	Mr Secretary of State in charge of relations with Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address our entire assembly on the first day of its first session, when it has just received the anointing of universal suffrage. First of all, let me welcome all those, many more than usual, who have never sat in our Chamber. May all, both old and new, contribute successfully to our common work, respecting the opinions of everyone! I also have the weakness to think that through your eminent people my modest words will reach those who have chosen to elect us on behalf of the sovereign nation that they embody and that we now have the heavy responsibility to represent. It is here in the National Assembly that, for 228 years, the present and future of France have been decided. The first French Constitution drawn up in the Jeu de Paume, the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights, the abolition of feudal rights, freedom of the press, the tricolor flag, universal suffrage, national education, the unification of the French language, the abolition of slavery, freedom of worship and the abolition of the death penalty have emerged from this assembly: all major and founding subjects of our republican pact, which have given rise to extraordinary verbal contests and fundamental laws whose history holds the precious echo. We are all heirs to these founding acts. We must affirm our parliamentary identity. To be a member of parliament is to make the law; To be a Member of Parliament is also to be linked to a reality of territory; It is to listen, understand and make resonate here the aspirations of our citizens, their fears and their hopes, in order to bring through our work concrete and lasting solutions to the problems affecting all the French. Behind each of us are nearly 100,000 citizens, whom he represents. It must never be forgotten: it is through us that bonds are established between them and those who govern us. Colossal challenges await us, including, among many others, the fight against Islamic terrorism and the security of our compatriots, the return to employment to reduce unemployment, the reduction of taxation to restore oxygen to households and entrepreneurs, the restoration of school, the improvement of justice and the reward of merit in order to take over the social fabric of our country so that every citizen is recognized in his rights with equity but also is reminded of his duties towards the Nation. In all things, our duty is to make the future desirable to the French because it is possible and full of hope and freedom. Our duty is to awaken and sustain the Republic and the universal values of freedom, equality and fraternity for all its children. The anointing of universal suffrage is not an end in itself. It marks the beginning of something greater for each of us, which goes beyond all egos: the immense honour of serving France and the French. We have more than ever a duty to act. I believe in us, I believe in you, I believe in our audacity, I believe in your audacity, I believe in our energy, I believe in your energy, I believe in France living, demanding, new, winning, creative and optimistic. I wish the new legislature my gratitude and success. [[Applause]] Long live the Republic! Long live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u7	The next item is the election, in accordance with Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure, of the President of the National Assembly. This election shall be held by secret ballot in the rostrum. I have received the nominations of Ms Laurence Dumont, Ms Caroline Fiat, Ms Laure de La Raudière, Mr François de Rugy, Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau. In the first two ballots, an absolute majority of the votes cast is required. I would like to inform you that handwritten bulletins are valid, but that printed bulletins are at your disposal. These bulletins, placed in envelopes, will be placed in the ballot box under the control of the age secretaries. The ballot will be taken away by four incumbent deputy returning officers and two alternate deputy returning officers, whose names I shall draw by lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u8	Mr. Bruno Questel, Mr. Florian Bachelier, Ms. Sabine Rubin, Mr. Thomas Rudigoz are appointed full deputy returning officers. Alternate deputy deputy returning officers are appointed: Ms. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubière, Ms. Valérie Beauvais. I will draw lots for the letter by which the roll call will begin.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u9	The spell refers to the letter U. To facilitate the orderly conduct of the ballot, please wait for your name to be called up to the rostrum. I open the ballot, which is announced in the National Assembly. The vote will be closed at 16:10. I invite the bailiffs to begin the roll call.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u10	No one's asking to vote anymore? ... The vote is closed. I invite our colleagues who were appointed deputy returning officers at the beginning of the meeting to go to the fifth bureau to proceed with the recount. The result of the voting will be proclaimed at 4:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u11	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u12	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the result of the election of the President of the National Assembly. Number of voters: 567 White or invalid bulletins: 24 Number of votes cast: 543 Absolute majority: 272 Have obtained: [[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and the Secretary of State for Relations with Parliament, spokesman of the Government, stand up and applaud at length]] Mr. François de Rugy: 353 votes [[Applause]] Mr. Jean-Charles Taugordeau: 94 votes [[Applause]] Ms Laure de La Raudière: 34 votes [[Applause]] Ms Laurence Dumont: 32 votes [[Applause]] Ms. Caroline Fiat: 30 votes [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and the Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament stand up and applaud at length]] Mr François de Rugy, having obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast, I declare him President of the National Assembly and invite him to take a seat in the presidential chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u13	[[Mr François de Rugy took place in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u14	Mr Secretary of State for relations with Parliament, Mr Dean, ladies and gentlemen, I know that many of you share a particular emotion, which I experienced ten years ago. It is from these emotions that we do not forget, that of Members who sit for the first time in this House. Here are the essential pages of our history; There have been passionate debates here; Here have resonated with great voices that have made French democracy; Here, decisions have been taken that have forged France, its economic dynamism, its system of solidarity, its public freedoms. Let us be inspired by the best of these places! But let's not stop at these places. The National Assembly is richer with those who represent the Nation than with the very framework of their work. We are, you are, in your diversity of journeys, commitments, and convictions, you are together the national representation. In taking me to the presidency of this House, you do not only give me an outstanding honour; You entrust me with a responsibility which I am responsible for and which I wish to exercise among you, with you. Because we cannot ignore the particular challenge we face. For the first time in the history of the VeRepublic, we were collectively chosen by a minority of French and French. This in no way instills our legitimacy, your legitimacy to act and to legislate, because no one can claim to represent or to speak for those who did not participate in the last parliamentary elections. But it gives you, gives us, a particular responsibility, that of regaining confidence that decades of economic and social crises and crisis of democratic representation have eroded. Restoring confidence in the effectiveness of public action and speech: it will be, in the first place, the role of the majority that will have to implement the project it has carried out, while at the same time preserving in all circumstances respect for oppositions and the will to build larger majorities to advance. In this profoundly renewed hemicycle – both in its faces and in its political geography – truth will not sit on either side. It will be born from the debate and the will to act for the French and French. To restore confidence will be to achieve results. But it will also restore confidence in our institutions, in our institution. My application was based on a project that I publicly presented. This project is one of a more democratic, effective and modern National Assembly. In order to be more democratic, the Assembly must be in the first place a forum in which one does not just speak, but where one learns to listen. This House must not be a place of provocation and anathema, nor a theatre of excesses and caricatures. There must be serenity, benevolence, a constructive spirit and respect in the debates. The Assembly will only be respected if it is respectable in its behaviour. This legislature must also be one of the realization of far-reaching democratic reforms, which have been delayed for too long. Reduction of the number of deputies, introduction of the proportional: these commitments of the presidential project must be kept. These reforms will obviously be carried out jointly with the Government of Édouard Philippe, but they will have a stronger echo, and will be better understood, if they are based on a strong mobilization of parliamentarians. To achieve them, constructive collaboration between the Government, the Senate and, here, the majority and the opposition will be required in order to achieve the broadest possible consensus. We need a more democratic but also more effective Assembly. The French we meet often tell us: they feel that Parliament speaks a lot, but does little. To do better is to act faster first. I therefore call on all the groups in this new House to work on the necessary changes to the parliamentary procedure. Today, the procedure encourages sluggishness and obstruction. It is necessary to promote the construction, to guarantee the implementation of the reforms validated by the French and French, but also to facilitate the completion of parliamentary initiatives, whether they come from the majority or from the opposition. If some reforms require a revision of the Constitution – and the President of the Republic has committed himself to it – it is possible for our Assembly to modernise on its own initiative a number of obsolete procedures: let's do it! But MPs are not just here to make the law. Their essential role is to monitor the actions of the State and the Government. The President of the Republic has often recalled this in recent months: we need a Parliament that really controls. Effective control will require, among other things, the acquisition of new powers of investigation and access to administrative documents and administrative inspection reports. This will require more means to assess public policies on the ground. Let us set the objective that each evaluation exercise will give rise to specific recommendations for regulatory or legislative changes to which the Government or the relevant commissions would be required to respond. Finally, efficiency will depend on our ability to build on innovations implemented in foreign parliaments: facilitating exchanges of good practice and cooperation with the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. We have everything to gain at this opening. Our practices, as well as our policies, will benefit. In order to be more democratic and effective, the Assembly will finally have to be more modern. For our fellow citizens, the Assembly is too often a symbol of opacity, secrecy and the reign of exceptional or derogatory practices. Our institution must be fully part of the common rule. This legislature will have to make it possible to achieve equality between citizens and parliamentarians. The Government Bill is moving in the right direction and provides too long-delayed responses. But it will also require decisions of our Assembly on its own practices: retirement of parliamentarians, social protection at the end of the term of office, cost notes, employment rules and status of parliamentary collaborators, parliamentary immunity... Let us put everything back on the table and guarantee equality and transparency. With you, I will act to strengthen the role of the ethics officer of our assembly; its monitoring capacity and independence will need to be strengthened. This will remove suspicion, and it will secure us, will secure you, because insufficiently clear rules complicate the exercise of the mandate and pave the way for fantasies and anti-parliamentarianism. Modernism will also be found in the openness to society. First of all, by carrying out the digital revolution here: it is a key issue to enable citizens to intervene in the fabric of the law, to follow the debates, to inspire proposals for laws, and to enrich the control and evaluation of public policies. But if digital can bring much, it's not all. Our institution will also have to meet with citizens through parliamentary conferences of territories, involving local deputies, committee chairmen and the President of the National Assembly. These conferences could span the entire term of the legislature in order to cover all the territories, metropolis and overseas. Our ambition must not only be to make our institution more transparent. It must also be to radiate it and make it attractive. Finally, modernity requires the implementation of the principles of sustainable development in the functioning and management of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament is that of the profound renewal of Members. I see this by going through the spans of eyes: so many new faces, which say feminization, rejuvenation, diversity... This legislature is also that of a radical political recomposition – we will see it when you sit on these benches within your respective groups. But this legislature must be that of preparing for another revolution, as indispensable as the previous two, that of a better sociological representativeness. We must therefore, together, move forward in the development of a statute for the elected one that facilitates the access of everyone, regardless of their social class, to the office of Member of Parliament. This, ladies and gentlemen, in a few words, is the draft which I first presented to my colleagues in the majority group. It is this project that leads me here today, it is this project that commits me, it is this project that I now share with you, which I intend to carry out with you. I was talking earlier about the memory of the place. There's also the man's. I will try to draw inspiration from my predecessors in this function that you entrust to me today: the benevolence that did not prevent the rigor of Jacques Chaban-Delmas or Claude Bartolone, the will to reform Jean-Louis Debré or Laurent Fabius, the fidelity to Louis Mermaz's presidential project, or the humanity so special to Philippe Séguin or Henri Emmanuelli. Yes, from all this I will try to inspire myself, because we all know that there is no imagination without memory. It is precisely to memory that I would like to devote my last words, more personal if you will. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the memory of Corinne Erhel, who could, who should have, have sat in our assembly had it not been crushed, in the midst of the election campaign last May. I was by her side, and I'm thinking about her, like many of you. At this moment so special in public life, I also have a thought for mine, for the values that my parents and grandparents have conveyed to me. Directly victims of the Second World War, they gave me a deep European commitment that makes me proud to sit before you in front of this European flag. [[Applause]] President Accoyer had the wise idea of putting this symbol of lasting peace in our Chamber: there is all its place, alongside our national colours. I don't forget the taste for regional diversity that my parents passed on to me. From Brittany to Lorraine, from Corsica to Alsace...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u15	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u16	[[Applause]] ...from metropolis to overseas, we are here the representatives of this diversity that makes France's wealth. I finally think, as I imagine, many of you, my children. It is ultimately for them, for the future of the coming generations, that we are all committed here. May we transmit to them, in our turn, a preserved Republic, a living democracy and respect for others, and a National Assembly renewed in its practices. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and the Secretary of State responsible for relations with Parliament stand up and applaud at length]] Long live the Republic! Long live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-06-27-O1124.u17	Next sitting, Wednesday 28 June at 3 p.m.: Appointment, possibly by vote, of the six Vice-Presidents, the three Quaestors and the twelve Secretaries; Installation of the Bureau. The meeting is adjourned.
