ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism (No. 104,164, 161).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u2	Last night, the Assembly continued its consideration of the articles, concluding with Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u3	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 4. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, Article 4 concerns home visits and seizures. In our previous interventions, Michel Castellani, Paul-André Colombani and I have expressed our concern, particularly with regard to the lack of characterization of the serious reasons for believing that a place is frequented by a person whose behaviour could be criminal or in relation to organizations whose theses would incite or apologies for the commission of terrorist acts. There are other reasons for concern: the lack of a guarantee preventing a security drift or the wave of certain notions, such as "the usual relationship with persons or organizations inciting, facilitating or participating in terrorist acts", or even simply adhering to these these ideas. Finally, the discussion provided us with confirmation that amalgams were not avoided, since the purpose of the bill is no longer only the exceptional situation created by radical Islamism, although it takes over most of the debates, a so-called war situation being supposed to justify the introduction of a state of emergency into the common law. However, we have seen that many political, social or other situations may fall within the scope of this law, even though some of them deserve more dialogue than repression. We can only regret such shortcuts. That is why we will vote against this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u5	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to these visits and seizures, which are never just searches without a judge, I must express my concern at the time when Mr Rajoy's government visits Catalan ministries by armed men and orders the seizure of ballot papers with which Catalans must peacefully express their inalienable right to self-determination. If I do not question the imperative need to combat the exceptional and ad hoc threat of jihadist terrorism, I refuse to allow this struggle to be diverted in order to break the doors of political activists; I think, in Hexagon, of the Zadists or the Red Bonnets, whereas the law in force has always been enough to contain the overflows and the risks of harm to public order. The Daesh campaign in Europe is an episode that has taken away many of our fellow citizens, but when we have won it, we would leave in the marble of the law provisions that would allow the permanent violation of the homes of presumed innocent people by mere suspicions. When Corsican patriots made the choice of desperate violence – a violence that turned against them – no declaration of a state of emergency had been passed by the legislator. Yet many abuses were committed by law enforcement forces during searches, in the greatest indifference of many people. What should we then expect with such a text? Since 2014, Corsicans have expressed a unanimous desire to appease through several elections. But we fear that these searches without a judge, ordered according to the good pleasure of the executive, will provoke Corsicans who only aspire to peace. We saw such a provocation at work when Franck Paoli was arrested yesterday by my colleague Jean-Félix Acquaviva, who was arrested with methods of another time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u7	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u8	If there is an article that, in the first analysis at any rate, should bring us together, it is this one: we are still in the shadow zone that we were talking about yesterday about Article 3, that is to say, in the obligation to equip the law enforcement agencies with specific mechanisms to combat the threat that we all know. However, the case law considers that we are faced with custodial measures, which are therefore perfectly regulated in our law. That is why the draft law provides for arrangements to connect with the judiciary: on the one hand, the information of the public prosecutor; On the other hand, the second very strong, very effective link is that of prior intervention, rather than a posteriori, as in Article 3 of the Justice of Freedoms and Detention. This is not a legal fiction but a reality, as Jean-Michel Hayat, president of the court of great instance in Paris, well established during his hearing by the commission of laws. He explained to us how, with the help of the first Vice-President, he had organized a mechanism in the capital to decide on these issues 24 hours a day and not to delay the normal implementation of administrative control measures. We all know that these can at some point lead to a translation into the judicial world. It is therefore quite logical that the La République en marche group supports Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u9	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Article 4 is intended to allow the administration to carry out house visits and seizures for the purpose of preventing acts of terrorism. If the state of emergency provides for administrative searches, which apply to everything that threatens public security or order, and if there are possibilities under ordinary law for home visits, there is no provision for the prevention of terrorism, at least when there is no suspicion of a criminal offence. This section is based in part on the administrative searches provided for by the 1955 Act, which provides that they are authorized by the Prefect. They have been widely used at the beginning of the current state of emergency, but have become marginal for two reasons: actions are more targeted and this mechanism is no longer always adapted to reality. Home visits will be strictly limited to the prevention of terrorist acts, which will distinguish them from the administrative searches permitted by the state of emergency. In addition, visits and seizures will be subject to a strengthened legal framework. Indeed, they will be authorized by a judicial magistrate, the judge of freedoms and detention – the JLD – who will be responsible for monitoring the legality of the intervention of the administrative authority. Thus, efficiency will be preserved and individual freedoms guaranteed. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Finally, it must be borne in mind that the proposed scheme, described by some as a "legal hybrid", is not an innovation. It already exists in ordinary law and under similar conditions. Some fraud enforcement officers or the Directorate-General for Public Finance and even some agents of the Autorité de la concurrence may carry out such visits, always under the supervision of the judge of freedoms and detention. It would be harmful to have fewer prerogatives in the fight against terrorism than in the fight against fraud. That is why this article should be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u11	Mrs Elise Fajgeles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u12	Since the beginning of the discussion, we have seen at least a little bit of caricature and provocation. On the side of the group The Republicans,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u13	Ah! It doesn't start well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u14	...we have heard some proposals which seem to me totally disproportionate, in contempt, sometimes assumed, of the constitutional judge and the risk of censorship, therefore in disregard of our system of values and our Constitution. [[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] On the part of the Group of the European People's Party, we are accused of introducing the principle of suspicion into legislation, but it is you, ladies and gentlemen, that I intend to express a suspicion towards the police, the intelligence services, the administrative authority, the administrative judge, by brandishing the argument of white notes and grey areas which would justify unnecessary intervention or even abuses which would lead to "democraty", according to your expression. You, like us, have attended the hearings: the police have more to do than look after house arrest or conduct searches based on nothing, as you accuse them. The experts told us all,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u15	Your experts!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u16	... they need to be able to implement these administrative measures, based on blank notes which are used in particular to protect sources and to support information from foreign sources which could not serve as a basis for judicial proceedings, knowing that the purpose of these measures is always to lead to judicial proceedings. Nor can you deny that certain interventions must be carried out in an absolute emergency in order to avoid an attack. Because this is what we are talking about. And I recall again that the Minister of the Interior told us that twelve attacks have been foiled since the beginning of the year. [[Applause on many benches in the REM group]] There is no grey area; There is only a balance of risks for the protection of our citizens. Article 4 is perfectly in this balance. Thus, the introduction of the JLD in the scheme guarantees the protection of individual freedoms. Moreover, the fact that, for some time, house arrest has been much more targeted and productive shows that such specialisation in the fight against terrorism enables targeted and threat-sensitive measures to be implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u17	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, terrorists are testing our democracy. This refers to a twofold responsibility: the first is to preserve individual freedoms, which guarantee our rule of law, and the second is to give the public authorities effective legal means to combat terrorism. This point of balance seems to some unobtainable, and the very term of balance may disturb because it exceeds the traditional ideological divides between a certain left and a certain right. Thus, on the one hand, there is a plea for more freedom, sometimes to the detriment of the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism, and, on the other, for more security, sometimes to the detriment of what underpins our rule of law. The article we address combines these two concerns. Home visit is a necessary step, as it allows intervention to remove doubt. Where we do not have sufficient evidence to carry out a search in a purely judicial context, this is absolutely necessary, as it allows for prompt action where there is a risk. But this article offers guarantees and judicial counterpart: any home visit must be carried out under the control of the JLD, will be limited in time, and will involve the notification of the right to silence as well as the prohibition of holding hearings. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This article shows that it is possible to implement concrete measures aimed at improving the security of the French within the unsurpassable framework of the rule of law: we can therefore be proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u19	Mr Jean-Michel Fauvergue has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u20	Section 4 of this bill is emblematic, directly derived from the state of emergency and, in particular, from administrative searches. The resulting administrative visits and seizures, as provided for in the same article, take advantage of these same searches, based on the speed of action they allow. This speed of administration has no equivalent in the courts. It is in fact, and in general on the basis of a note issued by an intelligence service, of which it is essential – you understand why – to keep the source secret, to raise a doubt about a risk that could prove fatal and lead, perhaps, to a terrorist massacre such as those we knew not so long ago. In such a situation, decisions must be taken quickly: the administrative authority is armed for this. However, the judicial judge is not excluded from the process, since his intervention is foreseen from the outset. It will in fact be a team of judges of freedoms and detention, that of the Paris High Court, which has the dual advantage of knowing the terrorist matter – they know what they are talking about – and being reached 24 hours a day. It will be able to cope with the urgency. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Such a mechanism should be such as to reassure police and gendarmerie investigators, still somewhat reluctant to deal with the interventions of these famous JLDs. Clearly, these visits, which will remain limited in number, will offer the opportunity, if necessary, to act, and to act quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u21	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u22	On this particular section, as since the beginning of our discussions on this bill, we are dealing with our public freedoms: I invite everyone not to forget it. Of course, we are all driven by the will to be effective in the face of terrorism. But, as we have also said, we must not leave the era of justice to enter the era of suspicion. What are we talking about? Let us go to the essentials: even if this new chapter that we are proposed to insert into the code of internal security takes the title of "Visits and seizures", it is, in fact, searches. Until then, it had been up to the investigating judge, who had been specifically investigated as to the operative facts, to make such a decision, that is, whether or not to allow a search, through a JLD. From now on, this filter will almost no longer exist: more precisely, the prefect can directly, after referral to the JLD, who will not have the same information as the investigating judge, since it will only be white notes, authorize a search. What's the problem? Has this type of procedure allowed us to be informed in recent months? Of course, 4500 searches took place during the state of emergency. How many judicial investigations have they conducted? No more than 50, no doubt 30! We see, therefore, the lack of effectiveness of this type of procedure. Do we agree with this technique of general netting, which means that at six o'clock in the morning some of our fellow citizens will arrive, on the basis of approximate facts that have not really been established by an investigating judge? Do we agree that 4,500 searches will only lead to some 30 judicial investigations? This is an inefficiency which must bring us back to justice as well as to the fact that at any time it is possible to join the permanence of the anti-terrorist prosecutor's office. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is therefore not true that at present we cannot intervene in the event of imminent danger. Let us therefore be vigilant, ladies and gentlemen: that is why we will vote against this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u23	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u24	Article 4 deals with the possibility for the administration, with a view to preventing acts of terrorism, to carry out visits and seizures. This subject, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me to be much more sensitive than the various measures we have studied during the examination of Article 3. Indeed, this possibility is quite close to the criminal procedure. Completely new in the ordinary law, this article, if adopted, will allow the entry into force of provisions which would be closest to those of the state of emergency. However, some points can be changed and need to be discussed with the utmost attention. Therefore, the amendments that I will present to you will not be aimed at adding new provisions, but at deepening those which are before us. They will focus on the use of human resources and on the time conditions for such visits and seizures, in order to streamline them more effectively while ensuring that the necessary balance between the protection of our citizens and respect for the Constitution is respected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to draw your attention to home visits. First of all, with regard to the people who will have to be present during the course of their work, I believe it is necessary to simplify the conditions which you have provided for. But simplification does not mean planing, since it is indeed a magistrate who will have to be present and ensure that the principles and procedures are respected. I would also like to discuss with you, Madam Minister, the maximum duration of these visits, which should be extended slightly, in order to allow officers to do their work more calmly. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, it seems to me necessary to distinguish between the time of detention of individuals during the visit and the time of their custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u25	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u26	This article has resulted in a certain balance between the operational needs of the law enforcement agencies and the monitoring of the rights and freedoms of each person who may have to undergo such visits and seizures. However, I have a little question about these words of "visits and seizures", which, in fact, are similar to searches. But we debated it in committee, and the matter was decided. I reply to our colleagues in the insoubted France group who, on these searches, are trying – once again, as since the beginning of the legislature – to make us take their fantasies for reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u27	Don't worry: our fantasies are not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u28	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u29	The 4,500 searches you mentioned were those which were carried out, in large part, in the state of consecutive sideration on 13 November: they met a need of all our fellow citizens. Today, things are completely different. This bill allows us to strike a balance, as the JLD is involved in the decision and gives its opinion on the proposed transaction. For our part, we will propose an amendment that will give the judicial judge some kind of veto power. We discussed it with the magistrates' unions. This judge may be given priority when a visit or seizure is envisaged. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] This balanced article reconciles the operational needs of the police forces, which our colleague Jean-Michel Fauvergue recalled, as well as the preservation of the freedoms of every citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u30	Mr Patrice Verchère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u31	Madam Minister, in the bill that you are submitting to us, which is intended to create, in your opinion, a serious alternative to a state of emergency, while at the same time ensuring optimal security for our fellow citizens, section 4 provides for the replacement of administrative searches of the state of emergency by the incorporation into the common law of house visits on the initiative of the prefects, under judicial authorization. First of all, before I support my point, let me note that the term "visit" in a context of terrorist threat seems inappropriate to me. I don't know what's going on with you, but if I ever had the pleasure of visiting friends, I wouldn't at any time come to the idea of using that word for a possible terrorist. With your bill, these visits and seizures will no longer be administrative searches – with all the flexibility that this implies, and which is appreciated by our security forces – because they will be subject to judicial authorization, that of the JLD, upon reasoned referral to the competent prefect. Given this clarification, on the merits, I can only remind you that the administrative searches have shown their full efficiency, since of the 4000 that have been carried out, 500 have led to arrests, 426 to police custody, and 600 to seizures of firearms, including 77 of weapons of war. Once again, with this article 4 – and this is the weakness of your project – you will degrade the level of protection of our citizens by proposing the establishment of a heavy and complex system, without any real added value in terms of the effectiveness of our security and intelligence forces. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Do you not think, Madam Minister, as the police unions have rightly pointed out, that there is a legal monstrosity and that this mechanism, however beautiful it may be on paper, will often be inoperative in practice, since the time required to justify the referral of the JLD is likely to be in full contrast with the need for an immediate response, which is the only way to avoid the orchestration of attacks?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u33	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 4 deals with site visits and seizure of sensitive documents, as well as the immobilization of persons liable to commit terrorist acts. Unfortunately, minister, all the provisions you are proposing are empty of substance, and your intentions not followed by legal effects, or rather with such strong constraints that they will not be able to strengthen our arsenal of fight against Islamist terrorism. There are several examples: first of all, we cannot organize a visit to a place frequented by an Islamist before six o'clock in the morning, or after twenty-one hours. That's the big deal. The Islamists will therefore be able to operate quietly during these time zones. The judge may also, at the request of the Islamist or if he decides on his own initiative, suspend the visit or seizure of documents: this provision dangerously undermines the practical implementation of the fight against terrorism. Finally, an Islamist preparing to commit an attack cannot be held for more than four hours. The bill provides that an Islamist who poses a serious threat to security and public order will have to be released after four hours of detention. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Imagine the political and moral responsibility that you will bear if an attack is committed by an Islamist who was released after being detained for four hours during the visit to his home! What will you tell the victims' families? That you wanted to guarantee the public freedoms of terrorists? Whether you wish to please the criards of unsuspecting France or rather, should I say, of France subject to Islamism?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u35	We're raising the level!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u36	Sir is a poet?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u37	[[Applause from some non-attached Members]] We therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to strengthen this text in order to guarantee the safety of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u38	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this perfect democracy in which we were forbidden to speak during the general debate, we have the task of enlightening national representation on the absolute nullity of this bill, as well as on its dangerousness. In this perfect democracy, the French have not felt the need, in recent weeks – and it is happy – to do justice themselves. They saw the exceptional nature of the state of emergency as the possibility of a response from the State. Unfortunately, it has been used so badly! With Article 4, you come, Madam Minister, to put an end to the trust that could exist between rulers and governed, because you say, in the end, that Islamist terrorism is a crime that deserves consideration, and that those who implement it deserve not to be shaken. Thus, in this article on visits and seizures, you plan to come to the door nicely of suspicious persons, not by treating them as ordinary criminals, but by refusing to hunt them night and day, since, contrary to what happens to the perpetrators of crimes and offences relating to narcotics, procuring or trafficking in human beings, you refuse to wake them up at night. In this house, we lift the immunity of a parliamentarian because he showed photos of Daesh, but we refuse to attack the very ones who are at the origin of this type of attack, and therefore of these photos! [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] Colleagues, if you refuse to wake up the night of people suspected of Islamist terrorism, well, be assured, they are the ones who will come to wake you, night and day!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u40	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u41	Colleagues, I would like to make four comments on Article 4. First, the latter invents administrative searches which have the characteristic of no longer being administrative: a search that involves the control of a judge is no longer an administrative search! The new article L. 229-1 piles so many legal conditions to its implementation, that it will in practice never be used. If the game is to make the work of the authorities in the face of terrorists even more difficult, the goal is achieved! Every effort is made to ensure that the person concerned is able to extract from the police visit, either physically or legally. Section 4 apologizes almost for allowing seizures, forgetting that this is generally the purpose of a search. When its editors speak of "visits" and not "searches", they are right not only from the legal point of view, but also from the semantic point of view! [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] The heart of this project is the searches, which you have turned into a kind courtesy visit. It would be nice if they weren't potential terrorists and we didn't have 250 dead to regret!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u42	[[Exclaims on various benches]] Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u43	Tagada, there's the Daltons!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u44	It's good to be popular! Ladies and gentlemen, it is without my parliamentary immunity that I stand before you. I take it with pride and humour. You see, I don't have the cancer of cowardice, submission, genuflect! I leave those who have this cancer to their care. I'm very happy I don't have that immunity. [[Exclaims on several benches]] Beware, however, because what happens to one can happen to the other. In any case, I hope there will be a trial, and I will have the honour of having many people named there... Oh yes, many people... Then we can explain ourselves in front of each other – if I may say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u45	What about the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u46	This piece of legislation, to deal with it very quickly, is on the one hand liberticide, on the other hand a very incredible weakness. It is the mark of this majority: on the one hand, one gives the impression that one is strong, on the other, one does everything to be weak. It is a text which, from a legal point of view, is completely unbalanced. You are infringing freedoms; At the same time, you reduce the means of exercising control and repression. It's not a good text. [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] However – and I will conclude on this – you will always be able to console yourself, saying that we are suing a Member of Parliament who tweeted about Daesh's abuses: terrorism will be afraid!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u47	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor. ("Ah! » on several benches.)
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u48	We are now in fourth consideration of such a text, and there is a persistent embarrassment in this House, no matter who has the chance to sit on it. I wonder whether the new President of the Republic and the Government, who are trying to shed light on a number of subjects, would not try to raise awareness among the French about the search for and the pursuit of evil at its root. Indeed, wouldn't there have been, by any chance, a decline in the number of these tragedies since Syria was taken over by the killers of Daesh et al., and Libya and Iraq are on the way to being so? Should we not also take stock, at the beginning of the legislature, of our exchanges, and also of our diplomacy, with countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, and tell the French clearly what we are doing with them, and what the attitude of these countries towards Daesh is? Finally, should we not take stock of our cities? We talk about it sometimes, but very lightly. I had the privilege of visiting about thirty nights; Few people hide the hatred they bring to our civilization. Yet they are our children, children of France, born in France. We'd better look at how they're fed and what networks are driving them to radicalize. So I think it's time to open a new page, a clarification page. As far as I am concerned, I do not see the powers of the judge passing to the prefect and thereby weakening both.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u49	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u50	With regard to article 4, a need for "quickness" was mentioned earlier. This is a sort of argument of authority, justifying that it is not necessary to go through a judicial procedure, which would, on the contrary, be too slow. It is probably not aware of the fact that the Paris anti-terrorist prosecutor's office maintains a 24-hour service, that it is available at any time, that it comprises twelve members and that twelve judges from the seat accompany them. There are enough of us in this House to congratulate us on his work so that we do not come to criticise him for his slowness. That's not the point. 4500 administrative searches were carried out in connection with the state of emergency; weapons seizures and police custody were mentioned. Yes, there have been results, but they have nothing to do with terrorism – that is the problem. The means of the state of emergency have been used to speed up a number of investigations, particularly concerning narcotics, in order to display numerical results and to say, following the Coué method: "Look, the state of emergency, it works, since when you do searches, you seize things! " It's a strange process. It is clear, however, that in the recent period the number of searches solely for the purpose of combating terrorism has decreased significantly. So it is not a question of starting by shaking the coconut tree. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] With regard to the judge of freedoms and detention, he was introduced in order to give the impression that he was in a judicial framework. But the JLD has no investigative service. What means does he have to examine the white note or the elements brought by the prefect and to make his control, in substance, on the merits of the suspicions on an individual? These resources are extremely weak; In fact, they are identical to those of the administrative judge. As I said in my speech at the beginning of the discussion, it is only an alibi that allows you to drape yourself in a judicialization that does not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u51	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with Articles 3 and 10, Article 4 is at the heart of a legitimate debate. Like them, it is characterized by a talkative writing; This probably shows the difficulty in finding a balance between the exorbitant security measures of the judicial organization and the preservation of individual freedom of residence. It is not a question of maintaining a state of emergency in the ordinary law; That's not true. Nor is it a return to the common law of search. It is an in-between, which sees the emergence of administrative power where the judiciary was sovereign. We are going to table amendments, but at the margins of the text. As we have already said in connection with Article 3, it seems to us necessary, in view of this exorbitant mechanism, to implement parliamentary scrutiny of the same nature as that which we have established for the state of emergency. This is not a measure of mistrust; On the contrary, it is a collaborative measure, aimed at enhancing the transparency and the collective assessment of the Law Commission on these provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u53	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u54	It is necessary to act on the causes that lead to situations of terrorism, and not only on the effects. But among these causes, there is the history of the neighbourhoods where the people who are radicalizing, as well as our history, the history of France, and the history of the relations between these people and the forces of law and order, in particular the multiplication of controls: we are not controlled as many times as we are French or as a young girl or a young man born of immigration. This multiplication of controls creates a relationship to the very particular and rather violent authority. [["Yes, precisely! » on a few benches of the REM and LR groups]] The situation may get worse with the concept of "visits". Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, having an administrative visit; imagine your children, who will see the police enter your home, seize your computers and eventually take you, without necessarily explaining things to you, saying, "If we are here, there are reasons; You'll have the explanations later. It would be a question of "raising the doubt"; But don't you have the impression that it will rather sow him, the doubt, in the family, and also in the neighborhood: if the police came, maybe there is a problem? You all know the proverb: "There is no smoke without fire"! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Following these thousands of administrative visits that raise no doubt, but rather create a new one, what will be the lives of these young people, these families and their neighbourhoods? What will their perception of authority and the police be? I'm afraid we'll light a new wick instead of turning it off. This article does not suit us at all, as we will explain when we defend our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u56	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 256, 408 and 420, to delete the article. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 256.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u57	Contrary to what has been said, it is not only unsubmissive France that criticizes this article; That is why we are calling for its abolition. I have already said that, at the national level, all human rights organisations are very critical and are opposed to the bill, particularly section 4; and, perhaps you have seen it, today itself, it is at the international level, at the United Nations, that a communication has been made, precisely on the points that we are raising. It is nothing less than the UN Special Rapporteur on the protection of human rights in the context of the fight against terrorism, i.e. not a leftist or a laxist who does not know what she is talking about, and the Special Rapporteur on human rights defenders who made a communication to criticise a "permanent state of emergency" – I resume their term. They said, for example: "The normalization of emergency powers by this bill seriously threatens the integrity of the protection of rights in France, both in the context of the fight against terrorism and more broadly. Will they be sued for not knowing what they are talking about, for being lax or for not being aware of the reality of the terrorist risk? Will it be said about them that it is "islamo-leftists"? We take all the risk that exists in France and at the international level, and these personalities, these jurists, these magistrates take it just as much as we do. When they publish this kind of press release, there is a serious and serious problem that should be taken into account. In particular, as my colleagues have pointed out, this is a strategy of wrapping, as is evident from the use of the term "visits and seizures", which mixes two very different administrative concepts. This is a series of legal frailties and, above all, nothing to advance prevention. There are already some possibilities in our legal arsenal, but at the judicial level. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We therefore call for the deletion of this article, which will not prevent acts of terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u58	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 408.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u59	We said a few minutes ago that searches carried out without the presence of the judge could lead to abuses: the amendment is therefore forbidden, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u60	Is Amendment No 420 also being defended, Mr Jumel?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u61	I'll take two minutes to defend him, Mr. President. Jean-Paul Lecoq said what we thought of the spirit of the text. We are – like our colleagues on all sides of this House, I imagine – deeply committed to the values of the Republic; and in order to defend these values, we must ensure the balance of powers and their separation. However, since the beginning of the term of office, there has been a gradual questioning of this separation: we had the opportunity to say so, during the debates on the Labour law, with the questioning of the prud'homal power.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u63	This time, it can be argued that the judiciary, through the JLD, exercises control; But the JLD, as we know, will have no means of physical verification for the facts that will be submitted to it. The power of judicial control, theoretical, is therefore reduced, and there is no guarantee that it can be exercised over administrative power: it is also the meaning of the reservations that we express. I would add that, since the beginning of the examination of the text, I have experienced a form of malaise, because the effectiveness, it seems to me, will not be at the rendezvous, while the stigmatization and awakening of the antagonisms or angers returned, they will be. I'm deeply worried about that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u65	On Amendment No 51, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Raphaël Gauvain, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u66	Unfavorable. The same debate goes back to each article: once again, we are in the caricature. I will not go back to the substance, but the fact is that the article is in no way a decal of the administrative search provided for in the state of emergency. Contrary to what has been said, real guarantees are being made, in particular through the intervention of the judicial judge, in this case the JLD. We shall return to this point, but I cannot allow it to be said that the JLD, which intervenes in particular to decide on the pre-trial detention of many people, has no power. If you had attended the hearings that we conducted with the President of the High Court and the head of the JLD's office in Paris, Mr. Jumel, you could have heard him very clearly describe his mission and refer to the number of people working 24 hours a day in Paris to detain persons suspected of terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u67	Ms Jacqueline Gourault, Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u68	The same opinion, of course: unfavorable. We cannot remain permanently in the state of emergency and, on the other hand, our fellow citizens are waiting for us to protect them against the terrorist threat. The measures we are talking about here are strictly regulated, subject to the authorization of the judge of freedoms and detention after being informed by the public prosecutor, who may decide, if necessary, on criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u69	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u70	First of all, Mr rapporteur, you did well to point out that the JLDs are available 24 hours a day, as are their colleagues in the prosecution and the anti-terrorist headquarters. I am not saying that the JLD, in general, does not have any elements to rule on: I say that it does not have any elements in the particular case we are talking about, namely, searches, home visits and terrorist seizures. It goes without saying that when the JLD is brought before a judge – for example in the context of pre-trial detention – it has a file containing all the elements that enable it to decide. This is not the case here, I repeat, since the operative event of the decision comes from the administrative authority, in this case the Prefect, which provides only a blank note. The monitoring is therefore similar to that carried out a posteriori by the administrative judge in the context of the state of emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] A priori authorization is certainly a step forward: as they say, it's better than if it were worse... But to which judge would the decision to visit and seize be challenged? That's all the difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u71	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u72	Before immersing myself in this text and following the numerous hearings conducted on it, I also had doubts. In particular, I was wondering if he was not "liberticide", to use your great words, dear colleagues from the FI and GDR groups. I was thinking of a text that, perhaps, would affect some of our rules of law and habits, particularly with regard to our relationship to justice. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Then the law commissioners organized numerous hearings, in a number of which participated Ugo Bernalicis. On the other hand, there have never been colleagues who today give great lessons, especially on the benches of the far right. It is therefore surprising to hear them say that we have not worked and that we would be "nothing", as I think Mr. Collard said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u73	No, it wasn't me!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u74	We've been working!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u75	In any event, we have heard a number of judges on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u76	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u77	The representatives of the Union of Magistrates' Union, for example, considered the provision we are discussing to be balanced and added that it would allow judges and law enforcement officials to work. [[Applause on a few benches of MODEM and REM groups]] His preconceived ideas must sometimes be ignored in order to advance the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u78	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u79	I am not a law commissioner: I sit on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but, as a representative of the people, I allow myself to speak on all the laws of the Republic. I'm even here for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So there are not, on the one hand, those who work, and, on the other hand, those who do not work: you have in front of you deputies who all participate in the debates on the legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u83	[["No! » on several benches of the REM group]] I hear well, Madam Minister: pedagogy is the art of repetition, and you repeat that the French want to be safe. I also want to do so, for myself as well as for my children and grandchildren: there is no debate on this point, nor on the need to get out of the state of emergency. But remember what we all said in the aftermath of Charlie Hebdo's attacks, in demonstrations and in commemorations: "They won't win, they won't change our lives. This bill will change our lives and habits. Yes, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u84	We're just adapting to the threat, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u85	Since we have to get out of the state of emergency, let's get out of it. As we have said many times, our coherent and effective legislative arsenal allows us to defend ourselves against future terrorists. This text tends to reduce our area of freedom. I repeat, we all said that we would not give in to this. That message must be heard, Madam Minister. We all share the same objective: to fight terrorists. There will be no debate on this point. But we must defend the quality of life of the French and their freedoms: it is on this, perhaps, that we differ.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u87	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u88	Our colleagues are calling for efficiency. But what do they propose, in concrete terms? Nothing. Their proposals – deleting the various articles – would have only one effect: disarming ourselves against the threat.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u89	Can we avoid that kind of argument?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u90	You also argue about the numbers, the number of searches, to agree with you, providing proof of their ineffectiveness; But, as has been repeated enough, they are decreasing as they are increasingly targeted. Finally, do not cast suspicion on the quality of the work of our intelligence forces and magistrates. The former write, in accordance with the protection of the sources, their white notes in the most detailed way; The latter are sufficiently aware of their burden to reject an insufficiently detailed white note. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] So don't make it look like the rule of law would be threatened here. We shall therefore reject your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u91	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u92	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It's not about changing our way of life, Mr. Lecoq, it's about protecting him. On the other hand, there are many other administrative visiting regimes, and they follow roughly the same rules: I am thinking, for example, of the visits decided by the Autorité de la concurrence, the Autorité des marchés financiers, the Autorité de supervision prudentiel, the labour inspectorate, the unions for the collection of social security contributions and family allowances – USSRAF –, the tax administration or the customs authorities. In short, the proposed measure does not affect freedoms. All citizens are aware that the fight against terrorism is paramount and that the Government must give itself all the tools to protect them. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I would also like to take this opportunity to apologize, as I should have done at the beginning of this sitting, for the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, who is currently attending the 34th Franco-Italian summit alongside the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u93	I have before me two amendments, Nos 51 and 257, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor to support Amendment No 51, which I would remind you is the subject of a request for a public vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u94	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I want to address you with some seriousness. On the benches of the Republicans group, we do not make you any trial of intention. We know that you want, like us, to protect the French. But if I want to introduce this amendment with a certain solemnity, it is because it is at the heart of the technical disagreement that we have with you. With this amendment, we propose that you maintain the system of administrative searches carried out for the past two years under the influence of a state of emergency for a period of one year; Or rather, should I say: "essentially achieved for two years", because, in the spring of 2016, the choice had been made, during a phase of prolongation of the state of emergency, not to maintain them. At that time, we had a reasonable and responsible debate with the Government on this point. On 14 July 2016, the day of the Nice bombings, the President of the Republic made the choice to re-establish these searches. In July 2016, we decided in conscience, by a large majority, to allow the Minister of the Interior and the Prefect to order them again. Our conviction is that they must be maintained: the prefect must be given the power to lift a doubt, in absolute urgency, when intelligence dictates it. If a single administrative search avoids an attack, then we would be very unreasonable to deprive the Ministry of the Interior of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u95	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The alternative arrangement that you are proposing, Madam Minister, does not convince us, because it is no longer tantamount to an administrative search. This is in fact a visit, certainly on the initiative of the prefects, but subject to the authorization of a judge, which is very different. Above all, this procedure does not allow the speed of initiative which is that of the administrative search regime, and of itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u97	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 257.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u98	This article is basically only a political display since the measures it proposes can already be taken in the current state of the law. The existing legal arsenal is largely sufficient. I will mention only a few texts. Article 56 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, first of all, allows the judicial police officer to order, in the course of a criminal investigation of flagrance, to search the home of any person who appears to have participated in the crime or to hold documents, information or objects relating to the acts in question. In the context of a preliminary investigation into a crime or offence punishable by imprisonment for a period of five years or more, a home search may be ordered by the judge of liberty and detention if the requirements of the investigation so require. In the context of judicial information, the investigating judge may also order searches and seizures. In addition, the Code of Criminal Procedure already has measures in place to ensure the presence of a person on the spot in order to clarify the elements which have been the subject of the visit or seizure. It is therefore not necessary to add to the present law measures that will result in fewer freedoms, less protection for those who should be protected by the procedures of common law, under conditions worthy of our democracy. That is our concern. To those who ask us about our proposals, I would like to repeat very solemnly what I said yesterday, what we are saying – and who are not part of this bill. Today, to be effective, we need means for justice, for intelligence services, for customs, to hire personnel to accompany those whose loved ones are sinking into the air. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] Not all of these means fit into your laws. That is why we have another vision, other proposals. Antoine Leiris, whose wife was killed in Bataclan, said: "You will not have my hatred. Consider that. It's very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u99	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u100	The committee gave an opinion against these amendments. For the first, this is a debate that we have already had here and in committee. It is a point that separates us: we make the choice to leave the state of emergency – in a controlled manner – by adapting certain tools of the state of emergency, including administrative searches, to the common law. Mr. Larrivé considered that the new administrative search measure, the home visit, was difficult to operate. This is not what comes out of our hearings, during which, I recall, we heard the public prosecutor at the Paris High Court, the Director General of Internal Security – DGSI –, the police officers, the gendarmes. All told us that this device, which you call a "legal monstrosity", is operational. The judge of freedoms and detention, in particular, assured us that 24 hours per day per visit would be held at the Paris High Court, which would make it possible to centralize the house visit measure. If, in Cahors or Bordeaux, a prefect asked for a house visit at 16 hours, he would receive an answer one hour later and could commit the measure at 18 hours. I have seen the amendments you tabled, Mr Larrivée. We will be able to return to the operational nature of the measures and resume this debate. As for the second amendment, I refer you to my remarks on the first.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u102	Same opinion. Of course, administrative searches of the state of emergency cannot be transposed into ordinary law. The Council of State specifically referred to this in its opinion on this bill. Such measures must be accompanied by special guarantees in order to comply with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and our constitutional requirements. As I said earlier, like other existing regimes, the Government has decided to have these visits authorized by the judge of freedoms and detention, in particular in order to distinguish them from administrative searches of the state of emergency. Certainly, this intervention by the judicial authority will in no way undermine the effectiveness of the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u103	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u104	To my great regret, the minister has misread the amendment we are proposing. We do not intend to introduce an article under ordinary law, but to perpetuate the state of emergency for a period of one year with regard to the ad hoc administrative search measure. The purpose of our amendment is precisely to extend the state of emergency. So don't come and tell us that what we are proposing can only be done under the regime of a state of emergency: that's what we are telling you! On the other hand, Madam Minister, with some sadness, I find you extremely peremptory. I hope I'm wrong and your device will be fully operational. I note, however, that since November 2015, our immediate predecessors, Prime Minister Manuel Valls, Bernard Cazeneuve, the Republicans, Socialists or IDU groups of the National Assembly and of the Senate – and we were among these parliamentarians – have made the choice to entrust this administrative search facility to the state services. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You choose today to get out of it. It's your responsibility, in conscience. Ours, in conscience, is to submit this amendment to the public vote, so that everyone knows what will be voted on this issue tonight in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u105	A democracy cannot live in a permanent state of emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u106	Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u107	In line with what Cécile Untermaier mentioned in the general discussion on the article, we will not vote for either of these two amendments, neither Mr Larrivé's nor Mr Bernalicis's, which Mrs Autain presented. First, we believe that we must leave the state of emergency and that the provisions proposed by the Government satisfy us. Secondly, with regard to the prevention of terrorism, there is no need, nor will it be appropriate to stick to the common law alone, as our colleagues in France are proposing. This is an opportunity for me to recall that we are committed both to the experimental nature of the article, as introduced by the Senate and amended in committee with regard to the duration of the experiment, and to parliamentary scrutiny of the provisions of Article 4, which we will vote, so that it can be studied by the latter in two years' time, thanks to the appointment clause.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u108	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u109	Clearly, our colleagues have not read the 48 amendments we are proposing. Most of them, however, contain proposals or reminders on a constant basis. For our part, we participated in the work of the committee, we followed the debates and the hearings. Maybe not everyone's been as attentive as we are. I can therefore recall that, during these hearings, the Syndicat des avocats de France, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH), the Ligue des droits de l'homme (Ligue des droits de l'homme) and others expressed their disagreement with the proposals of this bill, in particular article 4. The majority of positions were in the same direction. I have recalled the views of many international or national organizations. No, we do not take this debate lightly. We have proposals to make, not only on the constant right but also on the prevention of acts of terrorism, as we said yesterday. We have to tackle the roots of the war, the money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u110	Money is not the only root of war.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u111	Who wants to do the angel makes the beast!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u112	We will make further proposals on processes at the international level. Unfortunately, you were not convinced by our first amendments to the proposal to extend the focal point to prevent acts of terrorism. We hope you will be with a little more reflection. We do not try intent by pretending that no one would be aware of the danger or that some would be lax. We understand the seriousness of this debate and we register ourselves in positive terms. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We only believe that the methods currently used are contrary to the objective set. That is why we are working very seriously to propose an alternative to a bill that all human rights organisations at the national and international level criticize on some points. If you can't hear us, listen to us, take us seriously, I beg you at least to take people who are aware of this and you can't dispute it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u113	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u114	The more some debates progress, the less we see the limits. Maybe that's the case today. What is this really about? By listening to La France insoumée, we have the feeling that the provisions of the law that we propose to you are useless because they would already be contained or incorporated into the ordinary law. If that's the case, I don't understand why you object. In fact, we are transposing provisions that, as the Minister has said, are relatively traditional, particularly in tax matters, to make them adaptable to the fight against terrorism, under normal conditions, outside the state of emergency that we have to study today. With regard to the points raised by the Republicans, these interventions are, again, difficult to understand. This bill does nothing but give the Minister of the Interior the power to give the Prefect the opportunity to remove a doubt. That's what we're aiming for. Let us take a moment to the office of the judge who, in such a text, has two characteristics. First of all, he judges in conscience, on the basis of the evidence before him. We don't have to administer the evidence for him. He's the one who'll have to make this decision. It is finally the classical office of the judge, who, every day, in the situations of everyday life or in those of exception that we have to know today, must forge a conviction of his own, according to what is presented to him. Let's not take that power away from him. Don't start saying that the entire system is weak because the judge can't decide. That's absolutely not true. Secondly, judges, like all other human beings, and like the police services directly confronted with the terrorist threat, must acculture themselves. This issue was raised extensively in our hearings. They're talking to each other. The terrorist prosecutor's office, the judges of freedoms and detention, the DGSI, form a set of convictions and conditions for combating terrorism. Therefore, we will not vote on either of the two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u115	Mr Manuel Valls has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u116	The Government has chosen to leave the state of emergency. We can debate it – we do it – but it is a choice that has been made and that takes into account the views of administrative authorities, including the Constitutional Council. It includes an important codicil, previously referred to by the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. We need to talk about this, because it has not been sufficiently done, when the public must bear it in mind: at any time, in the face of a threat, in the face of terrorist acts, especially the President of the Republic, the Government may be required to propose the restoration of the state of emergency. It is important to report this because the state of emergency is the right. It is enshrined in our Constitution. In fact, we could have consolidated it in this text. This was not possible, but at any time the state of emergency could be activated if, unfortunately, the facts required the executive to propose it again to Parliament. As soon as the choice has been made to leave the state of emergency, the Government's proposal seems to me to be as balanced as possible, the one that goes as far as possible, apart from some elements which, as the rapporteur recalled, will be discussed in a moment. This is a choice of coherence. Also, this text seems to me to be a step in the right direction. It presents all the necessary guarantees, also allowing the judge to intervene in the time that has been recalled, that of the hearings. I also take the floor to address our colleagues, the Republicans, who have accompanied us over the last few years on these issues, including most of the measures proposed by the governments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u117	Between you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u118	It's not between us, it's in terms of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u119	Because we have no responsibility?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u120	I respect everyone's statements here. What I know is that, together, as a matter of responsibility, we have always found the necessary agreement, both on anti-terrorism laws and on intelligence laws. This has not always been the case here, with another part of this House. Mr.Larrivé, I do not know what your group's final vote on this bill will be – although positions have already been announced. All the countries facing terrorism, France in particular, have experienced a desire for national unity: we have reached agreement here on the essentials. Therefore, let us not use the argument that we must look at everyone's vote in the public vote on these amendments to know those who want to disarm France or put us in trouble – I am a little extrapolating your remarks, Mr Larrivé. Here, I am aware of this, we are all perfectly eager to protect our compatriots, even if the paths chosen may be different.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u121	As long as we've been Prime Minister, we have the right to speak for as long as we want?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u122	But it's not about an amendment: it's about an intelligence policy, about the fight against a totalitarian ideology,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u123	There's nothing about that in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u124	...on the resources devoted to the police, the gendarmerie, the defence forces, the intelligence services.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u125	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u126	[[Extended applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] And that is why, with the experience that I have had, with the fact that we have managed to work together, I say that there is – even if it is not on this subject, not on this path (Exclamations on the benches of the FI and LR groups) – reason to believe in national unity and not to divide us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u127	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the REM group]] Mr Larrivé, have you asked for the floor – to withdraw your amendment, perhaps?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u128	I think you're moving forward, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u129	I give you the floor exceptionally once again, very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u130	I just want to say a word to our colleague Manuel Valls. Prime Minister, over the past five years, we have, indeed, not accompanied you, but helped to find common ground when it seemed to us that the national interest was commanding him. It is also true that there is a truth about voting, thanks to public elections. I'll call one back. In 2015, we voted by public vote on the intelligence law, whose rapporteur was Jean-Jacques Urvoas and whose implementation co-rapporteur I had the honour of being on behalf of the UMP Group. The current Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, had voted against this law. I'm not suing him for being lax at that time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u131	That was before!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u132	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...but I find that he chose to vote like this. This does not make him, today, irresponsible; But there is a truth of the vote. And this will also be the case, through the public vote, with this amendment relating to administrative searches. Let everyone take responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u133	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u134	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I have not escaped that a debate was being held between the right and the right on this important subject, but I would not like to let it be said that responsibility is the property of one of the two groups in question. On the benches of my group, Hubert Wulfranc, as Mayor of Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray, and Stéphane Peu, as Member of Parliament for Saint-Denis, showed not only great dignity in the face of events, but also a deep sense of responsibility. On these issues, my group has always demonstrated this sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u135	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u136	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You have just said that a state of emergency could be declared at any time by the President of the Republic and the Government. Then why should the exorbitant principles of ordinary law be included in the common law? Yesterday, I asked the Minister of Health about suffering in the hospital: I was told that I did not spend twenty-five years in the hospital. Today, I am asking the minister about a subject that concerns us all, regardless of the committees in which we sit, and we are told that we should have come to committee! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We've still been working a little... The JLD will be seized on the basis of behavioural criteria and serious reasons, which come from white notes on which it does not have the hand. Yet, a judge rules in law, but also on the basis of evidence on which he has his hand. That is the limit of your reasoning, and these are the reasons why, as a matter of responsibility, we consider that the proposal before us is neither effective nor in conformity with the fundamental principles of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u137	I put to the vote Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u138	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 230.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u139	In the same spirit as my group's previous amendment, this amendment proposes to go back to the fundamentals that led to the establishment of a state of emergency and the implementation of one of its most effective measures: administrative search. There were 4534 administrative searches in which 600 weapons were seized, including 78 weapons of war, which led to the commencement of 30 judicial proceedings. That is to say, at least 30 people have been questioned by the courts because they pose a major risk to national security, which is an Islamist terrorism. Here's the balance sheet. Prime Minister Manuel Valls has asked the right questions, including the essential question, to which you have still not answered, Madam Minister, nor the Minister of State: why leave the state of emergency? "Because we have to get out of the state of emergency," you say! The question that Manuel Valls asks contains in a way his answer, the same one that the services give us when we interrogate them in private: no one understands why we should leave the state of emergency when the threat is maximum. As far as we are concerned, we refuse to leave the state of emergency, because it will weaken our control devices; and we consider that the search as you anticipate it today, subject to the prior authorization of the JLD, will empty this major protective provision from its meaning. On these two points, we do not seek systematic opposition: this is an essential divergence of views.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u141	It is true that from 2012 to 2017, we wanted to support all measures...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u142	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u143	... which were in the direction of greater protection; Today, we are moving back on the same path.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u145	Unfavorable opinion. I will not relaunch a debate that has just taken place. We will return to this by examining the provisions of Article 4, and I hope that we will be able to convince you of the operational nature of the new seizure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u147	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u148	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u149	Minister, we are not challenging the consistency of your proposals, but the reasoning behind them. Terrorist risk is not an ordinary risk, which should be treated like other risks. In the debate we have just had, you and Mr Paris have repeatedly argued that other means of administrative visit exist in the ordinary law and that this situation was not so exceptional as that. But is terrorism an ordinary crime? Does its treatment require ordinary legal means? In the face of an attack of an unbearable scale for our freedoms, dangerous for our Republic, it is on the contrary extraordinary means that we must arm ourselves. Using ordinary means, the same as for a control of the USSRAF or a visit of the competition management, in short to consider a terrorist as a tax frauder, is really dangerous when it comes to defending our freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u150	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 507.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u151	The prefect's decision to seize the JLD of the TGI of Paris for each visit and seizure covered by this article may lead to a congestion of the court. The urgency of certain visits or seizures requires that orders be taken promptly, which justifies the referral to the territorially competent judge rather than to the Parisian judge in a systematic manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u153	Unfavorable. Contrary to what has just been said, according to the hearings we have conducted, the fact that the decision is taken by the JLD in Paris provides a guarantee of professionalism and efficiency. Indeed, the JLD is already in charge of terrorist matters and, I repeat, the JLD in Paris is organized in such a way that it can provide 24 hours a day, seven days a week. To take up an example already mentioned, if the Prefect of Bouches-du-Rhône asks him for an order within the hour, he may provide it to allow an urgent search; the question was put to him in the hearing, and he confirmed it to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u155	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u156	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u157	This amendment raises an interesting question: the possibility of deconcentrating our anti-terrorist services, particularly the courts. It could have led to a timely debate on the means of justice. You have said, Mr rapporteur, that the judge decides according to what is presented to him. This is precisely the difficulty, because it does not have an investigation service. In addition, the President of the TGI, as well as the JLD, who was accompanying him, deplored at his hearing the lack of an impact assessment on the JLD's referral under this procedure, which prevents him from assessing the number of judges needed to deal with it, and asked us to ensure that he had at least a second judge to organise a brigade of four and a rotation, so as to ensure a 24-hour specialized permanence. We could have given ourselves a little more time to clarify this point. The excellent relations between the Director-General of Internal Security and the Office of the Prosecutor-General in Paris, at a very centralized level, are mentioned. The Director-General of Internal Security and the Office of the Prosecutor-General are empowered to access the secret defence files, including the merits of the investigation. It is also possible that investigators – the judicial police officers of the DGSI – come to the anti-terrorist prosecutor's office to give an oral account of the progress of the investigation and to determine whether the case is judicial. But this is not the case at the deconcentrated level. We therefore propose the establishment of a national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office to coordinate the fight against terrorism and the strengthening of the specialized interregional courts, the JIRS, with counter-terrorism jurisdiction and confidential or secret defence clearances. That would restore trust between justice, the police and the population, in accordance with our fundamental principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u158	Mr Erwan Balanant, in support of Amendment No. 109, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u159	The aim is to give primacy to judicial searches, where possible, in order to "judiciate" as soon as possible the situations and individuals concerned. We discussed this during the hearings with many magistrates who wanted what one of them called a veto. In this case, the public prosecutor of the Republic of Paris would have the possibility, when he receives a request for a home visit, to decide directly on a judicial and non-administrative search. It is a way of strengthening the predominance of the judiciary in these counter-terrorism operations. Most of the time, the judge is able to do so; But it's better when you write it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u161	Unfavorable. I agree with the idea that we should give priority to the judicial route: it is also the one that the text favours. As a reminder, the prefect seizes the JLD and there is a reasoned opinion from the prosecutor. Since the process is centralized in Paris, if the prosecutor of the Republic of Paris says that the procedure must be judicialized, I do not see how the Paris JLD will go over it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u163	Your amendment is already satisfactory, since, at any time, the public prosecutor may decide to open the courts. So I suggest you remove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u164	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u165	I'm taking it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u166	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 426.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u167	In the same spirit, we propose that the written and reasoned order of the judge of freedoms and detention should justify the absolute need to use such a mechanism. Of the 4500 administrative searches carried out since the start of the state of emergency, half of those contested before the administrative courts, or about 100, have been cancelled. Motivating the order by reference to the factual and legal elements justifying the need for such transactions would, I believe, lead to greater caution and would certainly prevent "visits" being carried out abusively.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u169	Unfavorable. We had the debate yesterday. I think the word "motivated" is enough. It is, of course, the Office of the JLD to give reasons for its decision in the light of the facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u170	We change the code of criminal procedure, only entering "motivated" in it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u172	Disadvantaged too. Of course, the seizure will necessarily be motivated by reference to factual and legal elements, justifying the necessity of the transaction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u173	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u174	To answer this question of motivation, my colleagues in the GDR Group propose to insert: "by reference to the factual and legal elements justifying that these transactions are necessary". We are dealing with what Mr Paris has mentioned, with the need for acculturation of the judges of freedoms and detention, because they do not know the white notes well, just as the administrative judges did not know them well before them and had to proceed with this acculturation. What is she? It is to check that these notes are properly written, so that we can see what is hidden behind somewhat vague formulas, their principle being that they have no elements in order to protect the sources. This amendment proposes to be more precise and to judicare more easily. I find it regrettable that the previous amendment was withdrawn, although it allowed us to say in black and white that the judicial judge has a dominant position vis-à-vis the administrative judge. It would be better to say it. But this clarification is still too much for the committee and for the minister. That's too bad. I fear that this gap will allow for drifts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u175	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 231.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u176	This amendment proposes to revert, with regard to administrative searches, to the drafting of the Act of 3 April 1955. You have, Madam Minister, wanted to make the system more complex by introducing the decision of the judge of freedoms and detention, thereby creating, according to the formula of the Union of Commissioners of the National Police heard at the hearing, a "legal monster difficult to activate". At the same time, you wanted to restrict the conditions for implementing these administrative searches. By proposing a new wording, we want to go back to the original reading, which allowed us to implement these searches and these extremely protective procedures, which gave the results that I recalled earlier, in terms of seizures – 700 weapons – and judicial proceedings – thirty were opened. Let us return to the initial reading and writing to make this measure operational, while your writing will make it inactive and difficult to mobilise.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u178	Unfavorable. We have already had the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u179	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 432.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u180	The real substantive debate continues in this Chamber. After the end of the state of emergency, which had been declared in a state of war, the Government decided to incorporate emergency measures into the ordinary law. It is a hybrid legal procedure that strengthens the executive power, by removing the judicial authority, whatever it is said, including in the context of searches. Some colleagues have been right to say that we are here in the interpretation of an individual's behaviour, of serious reasons that would suggest something, or of the relationships that he or she may have. There will inevitably be drifts. It is chosen to put exceptional measures in the ordinary law and to relativize the rights of individuals. Without being able to delete a number of articles, our amendment seeks to limit the text to the exceptional nature of the situation that motivated the state of emergency and this bill: the situation of war linked to barbarism, that of radical Islamism. That is why we propose to add the words "related to radical Islamism" after the word "terrorism". This is a political amendment. I hope he'll be followed, even if I don't have a lot of illusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u181	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u182	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u184	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u185	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u186	I understand the basis of our Corsican colleagues' amendment. It would, in fact, avoid a certain hypocrisy present in this House and in our debates: it is in the end the target of this text. I do not know, however, whether I would use the same words as them. Maybe I'll see things more broadly. We must not give up our intransigence and continue to refuse to characterize one or another, but to make laws on general and non-specific categories. That is why we have refused to make back amendments to replace them with amendments to the proposal, since we are opposed to the text in its entirety. I am sure that some Members of the Group of the European People's Party will reply that there is hypocrisy in our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u187	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u188	[[Applause on many benches in the REM group]] I confess that I do not understand very well the words of our two colleagues. If I understand correctly, there is an acceptable terrorism, the "soft" – we don't know where it is – and an unacceptable terrorism, the one that would come from radical Islamism. For us, there is no acceptable terrorism. That is the meaning of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u189	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u190	This amendment is interesting. Yes, we have to get out of hypocrisy. Yes, we have to characterize things. There is no acceptable terrorism and no unacceptable terrorism. That is not the point of this amendment at all. We're waging a war. If this is not the case, we must not use these words and it is not a war that we wage against Islamist terrorism, but a struggle against a few people whose name we do not want to pronounce. There is a war that is waged in the name of Daesh, in the name of Islamist terrorism. You have to say it. This amendment says so. Why not adopt it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u191	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 319.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u192	From a probative point of view, the need for the protection of public order must be reconciled with the necessary preservation of rights and freedoms. As in Article 3, paragraph 8, paragraph 4 refers to the concept of "serious reasons for thinking". However, this concept has a dimension of subjectivity, which, in my view, does not allow sufficient control of the decision. Moreover, it may involve a risk of arbitrariness. The Court of Cassation, in a decision of 28 March, on the occasion of the review of the legality of the act establishing proceedings for the violation of a house arrest, held that it was "the duty of the repressive judge to reply to the complaints raised by the accused against this act, without placing the burden of proof on the person concerned alone and, where appropriate, to request the public prosecutor's office to obtain from the administrative authority the factual elements on which the latter had relied". If it cannot be required for such a measure to establish "serious and consistent indices", which would necessarily lead to the initiation of public action, it may reasonably be proposed that the precision of "specific factual elements" may be required.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u194	Unfavorable. That is the same argument as in Amendment No 426.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u196	Disadvantaged, because requiring precise factual elements, even before the visit took place, contravenes the very purpose of this measure, the purpose of which is precisely to gather precise factual evidence of the person's involvement in a terrorist project.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u197	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u198	Many of our colleagues are seeking to strengthen this text, so that there are concrete elements and avoid any subjective interpretation, in this era of suspicion that we are describing. We can also see that there is another rhetoric, that of war, which was used not only by the National Front, but also by our former Prime Minister. I am concerned about this rhetoric, because if we are at war, it is other conventions that must be applied, which poses other difficulties. People should then be judged as war criminals. That is what the National Front is proposing. It seems to me a little disturbing that some in the majority are taking up this kind of argument. We are fighting acts and the preparation of terrorist acts, attacks, no more or less. We must not enter into such rhetoric, without which we put our finger in a gear, without knowing where it would stop. This amendment seeks to clarify. As such, it is a good step backwards amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u199	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u200	This amendment simply reminds us that Article 3, which was adopted yesterday, and Article 4, have the same objectives. The aim is, in both cases, to prevent only the commission of terrorist acts, where there are serious grounds for believing that a person has conduct that poses a serious and serious threat to public security and order and that that person supports, disseminates or adheres to the propositions that incites or incites the commission of terrorist acts. However, article 4 lacks the term "diffuse" in article 3, paragraph 8. The dissemination of these views is, in the same way as accession or support, a serious reason for the measures provided for in Article 4 to be applied within the specific framework I have just mentioned. It is, in a way, a simple amendment of coordination and consistency with Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u201	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u202	The purpose of this amendment is to add the places where professionals bound by medical secrecy exercise the list of places not eligible for the operations described in paragraph 5, out of respect for all patients followed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u204	Unfavorable. I would like to recall that, in the State of Emergency Act, only places assigned to the professional practice of magistrates, parliamentarians and lawyers were protected. On our proposal, the committee has extended the list to homes, but I think it is excessive to extend it to doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u206	Disadvantaged too. I would point out that the judge of freedoms and detention can still, in view of the elements presented to him, consider it appropriate to allow a visit to a doctor's office. He or she may or may not say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u207	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 425.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u208	As you know, as part of the monitoring of the state of emergency, the Defender of Rights had received complaints about the implementation of searches in the middle of the night in the presence of children, sometimes very young, and without any precaution being taken. The Defender of Rights rightly stresses that it is essential to avoid traumatic interventions for children, so that they are not permanently disturbed or have negative representation of police officers or gendarmerie personnel, which could later contribute to undesirable attitudes. The Ombudsman therefore recommends, prior to the intervention, that information be collected on the presence, number and age of the child(s) in order to provide, if possible, a social worker, psychologist, police or military officer of the Gendarmerie of the Family Protection Brigade in the crew. At least one person on the crew involved must be responsible for this problem. It should also be recalled that, in 2013, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Bulgaria for violating article 3 of the Convention on the conduct of a search of the homes of suspects in the presence of young children. I would like to make the order in question available to you. For all these reasons, we recommend gathering information on the presence, number and age of children before any visit and taking the necessary precautions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u210	Unfavorable opinion. I agree with you on the need for the care of minor children in the context of a search, if not in a more general way. We have indeed heard the Defender of Rights in committee. But its recommendations do not fall within the scope of the law and must be implemented through an order or circular.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u212	Mr President, I fully understand your arguments and fully agree with the objective. You recalled the opinion of the Defender of Rights; But it did not recommend legislation on this point, simply stressing the need to protect children in such operations. In this regard, the instructions recently issued by the Directorate-General of the National Police on the wearing of the hood by police officers in connection with certain interventions in the presence of young children indicate that the officers specifically responsible for the care of the latter should not be held in hiding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u213	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u214	I hear your arguments against me and take note of your intention. The problem is that we don't specify anything in the law, and every time we try to make proposals to try to frame the procedures, you answer us the same way. I regret that, on a subject as sensitive as child protection, you are not making a small effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u215	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u216	I would like to remind the minister that we are all, both in our group and on all sides, driven by the same will to protect our fellow citizens from terrorism, and particularly Islamist terrorism. We were shocked by the cartoons of the Minister of State this morning about Europe 1. He said that Messrs. Ciotti and Larrivé simply wanted to "put everyone in jail". I think we should avoid such shortcuts! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Perhaps what we want is to put in prison all those who pose a terrorist threat to our fellow citizens, and that is what they expect of us. They want protection, better protection. In previous years, within the framework of the various texts, we have, in conscience, raised our level of protection – perhaps insufficiently, but systematically. On the contrary – we say it again and will continue to say it – this Article 4 will weaken our system. It provides, in particular, for the presence of the person whose domicile is to be searched or his lawyer; But it simply deprives this device of any practical meaning and operational character! That is why we want to return to the initial drafting of the law of 3 April 1955.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u218	Unfavorable. The current system is exactly the one provided for in the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u220	Same opinion and same argument: it is the administrative search regime under the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u221	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u222	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, by replacing the two witnesses with a magistrate whose independence and legal qualifications cannot be called into question, this amendment aims to facilitate visits in the absence of the occupant of the premises or his representative, while at the same time strengthening the guarantees of respect for the procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u224	Unfavorable opinion. By demanding that the magistrate be on the spot, you are the one who are against the operational nature of the measure. It is only anticipated that the magistrate will be informed of the search, particularly in case of administrative detention. But requiring it to be on the spot is quite a blow to the operational nature of the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u225	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u226	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u227	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u228	What if, when we go to the scene, there is neither the occupant nor his representative? In the presence of a magistrate, something can be done; in his absence, nothing is done. What if the occupant or his representative is absent? That's my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u229	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 242 and 308. I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 242.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u230	This amendment goes back to a provision which does not allow visits between 21:00 and 06:00 in the morning, unless expressly authorized by the judge of freedoms and detention. This measure will deprive the scheme of an operational character. The interest of the administrative search is its speed and simplicity. In the presence of a threat, it helps to remove the doubt very quickly, almost in the moment. When we met with the prefect of police, with the president of the law commission – whom I thank for having associated us with this visit – the prefect cited as an example the search of hundreds of personnel lockers in Roissy. The Prime Minister of the time knows this well: when, in the middle of the most crucial and dangerous period, there was a doubt and concern, it was necessary to go quickly and search systematically. It was impossible to obtain the presence of all the persons concerned or their advice, and action had to be taken within a period of time imposed by the urgency and threat. In this case, these two provisions would deprive the scheme of any operational and pragmatic character.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u231	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 308.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u232	We're going in the same direction. Searches are regulated in our law and cannot take place at night, with the exception of certain particularly serious offences such as drug trafficking, pimping and trafficking in human beings, as stipulated by the rule of criminal procedure. We consider that the commission of terrorist acts is sufficiently serious to be included in the list of circumstances derogating from the general search regime. We therefore propose that paragraph 12 should be deleted along the same lines as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u233	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u234	Unfavorable. I'm sorry, Mr. Ciotti, but what you're saying is incorrect. In the context of the state of emergency, night searches were possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u235	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u236	According to article 11 of the State of Emergency Act: "The decision ordering a search shall specify the place and time of the search. The search may not take place between twenty-one hours and six hours, unless the decision is specifically motivated. Paragraph 12, which you propose to delete, defines exactly the same regime as the state of emergency. Night searches, between twenty-one hours and six hours in the morning, are still possible, even in a judicial setting; the judge of freedoms and detention simply makes it subject to special conditions, i.e. emergency conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u238	Same opinion, for the same reasons. Naturally, if the person is very dangerous and there is a reasoned opinion, night search is possible. We cannot, in the ordinary law, be less demanding than in the context of a state of emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u239	How to measure an individual's danger? That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u240	Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u241	[[Applause on certain benches in the REM group]] We have been meeting for several hours and the subject is certainly worth it, but some amendments are a form of posture and highlight the inconsistencies of their authors. Mr Ciotti, you propose, like the deputies of the National Front, to delete paragraph 12, which states: "The visit may not be started before six hours or after twenty-one hours, unless expressly, in writing and with reasons, granted by the judge of freedoms and detention of the Paris High Court, based on the urgency or necessity of the operation. In Amendment No. 51, which you and Mr Larrivé were defending earlier, you proposed to write in Article 4: "The search may not take place between twenty and one hours and six hours, unless there is a special reason for the decision to search on the grounds of urgency or the needs of the operation. At this stage of the debate, therefore, you propose to delete precisely what you proposed to introduce at the beginning of the discussion on Article 4, which – forgive me – is not very consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u242	Mrs Elise Fajgeles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u243	I would like to reassure Mr Ciotti that, when they were interviewed, neither the Director General of Internal Security nor the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Paris François Molins expressed any concern about the cooperation of the police forces and the judges of freedoms and detention, as they were quite accustomed to night duty.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u244	We know! We've already said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u245	There is no doubt for them that very quick decisions can be taken to act quickly, as was the case during the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u246	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, in support of Amendment No. 60, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u247	This amendment concerns the minutes following the "visits" provided for in Article 4 of this bill. This document must be signed by the officers who made the visit and any seizures, and the competent judicial police officer. Paragraph 15 then lists the indications by which the officers and the judicial police officer may identify themselves, i.e. their number, "their quality and their service or unit of assignment". It seems to me that this last clarification, given the small size of certain units, could allow the identification of the judicial police officers in question. These people, who protect the French every day, also deserve protection. We must avoid the possibility of identifying them too easily, when they are already endangering their lives every day. To this end, we propose to delete the reference to the assignment unit on the minutes. The signature of the officers and the judicial police officer will always be necessary, as will the mention of the status of the signatories, their service, and especially their registration number, which, in the event of a procedure against the visit, will allow to trace to the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u249	After verification, this amendment does not provide any additional guarantee, since the current wording of Article 4 merely uses the usual terms to designate the service in the national police and the gendarmerie. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u251	Mr President, I think it would be appropriate to withdraw your amendment: the reference to the "service" and to the "assignment unit" merely uses the terminology of the police and the gendarmerie. This does not pose any particular risk to these agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u252	Mr President, are you withdrawing this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u253	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] That would be constructive!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u254	I understand that this is justified by the terminology specific to the various security forces. However, I believe that the reference to the "administrative registration number referred to in section 15-4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure" – to quote the bill – as well as to quality and service is largely sufficient to identify the persons involved. As we have been saying since the beginning of our debates, we are in a particular context where we are trying – slowly but sometimes painfully – to get out of this right of emergency, the state of emergency. And, in this context, it should be avoided that the agents involved in a visit can be easily identified. I therefore maintain this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u255	I have before me three amendments, Nos 10, 214 and 117, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 10 and 214 are identical. Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u256	The aim is to increase the length of detention of persons present on the premises from four to twelve hours, motivated by the fight against Islamist terrorism. We consider – and it is also the opinion of the police officers who are on the ground – that a four-hour period is not enough to allow them to complete all the necessary investigations and formalities. We must ensure that the law we are voting for is effective. However, due to the cumbersome procedures, it is not possible, within four hours, to carry out all the necessary investigations. If you choose to maintain this time frame, you will demonstrate that this bill is just an artifice, that it does not take into account the realities of the field, as the police investigating officers know them. I insist: it would be reasonable to extend this period, simply to take into account the reality of the ground and the procedural constraints associated with investigations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u257	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 214.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u258	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u259	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 117.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u260	In the preamble, Mr President, I would like to say that I was a little shocked by your attitude. I asked the rapporteur a question about the visits: I asked him about the interest, in the absence of the occupier or his representative, in providing for the presence of a magistrate. He was going to answer me, but you swept his speech with a back of his hand. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I don't think I'm obstructing you. I simply ask you, Mr President, to respect the rights of the opposition! Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u261	I do not think that this intervention is worth defending Amendment No 117; I will also give you the floor after I have answered you. You know what rules govern the discussion of an amendment: first, their author or one of the co-signatories defends it; the committee shall then give its opinion by the vote of the rapporteur and the Government by the vote of the Minister; After which you can ask to respond to these opinions. But it is not expected that this discussion will be endless, that the answer will be answered, and so on. In the present case, I had not seen that the rapporteur wished to answer your question, otherwise I would have given him the floor, because I believe that I am flexible in running the meeting. If you look at the way in which our debates have been held, you will see that I have often given the floor to many speakers to respond to the committee and the Government, exceeding the number of two speakers provided for in the Rules of Procedure, so that the various political sensitivities can express themselves on the major problems. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I therefore ask you to withdraw what you said about the rights of the opposition, to which I believe I have been particularly vigilant since July. I think I have demonstrated this on many occasions: these are objective facts, which you must look at in the face. I now give you the floor, Mr Diard, to defend Amendment No 117, and I do not count the time you have used to speak on this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u262	Thank you, Mr President, but I do not withdraw my remarks. The amendment tends to increase the duration of the detention from four to six hours – not twelve hours as in the previous amendments. The judge of liberty and detention could, of course, intervene if he considers the detention to be abusive. It seems to me that this increase is not exaggerated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u264	To answer the question asked earlier by Mr. Diard, which he renewed: if there is no one in the place that is the subject of the visit, then the officers must take two witnesses, exactly as they did for a judicial search. Let me turn to the amendments which aim to increase the duration of the administrative detention from four to six or twelve hours. During our hearings, we asked the police, gendarmes and DGSI the question: at no time did they ask that the maximum length of detention be increased to six or twelve hours. Moreover, in the context of the state of emergency, the duration of administrative detention is not six or twelve hours, but only four hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u265	Which is a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u266	It may be a mistake, but at no time did this problem arise during our hearings. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable. In any case, if you discover elements that are very damaging to the occupants, such as explosives, then you launch judicial information and put them in custody. Contrary to what your words insinuated, we don't leave them in nature! The duration of four hours is sufficient to carry out the operations, but if we discover something, then we switch to a judicial procedure, with possibly a police custody.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u267	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u268	Same opinion as the rapporteur. The operational aspects were well discussed by the Committee; I would add that extending this period beyond four hours could very well be unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u269	But police custody can last 24 hours, and it is quite constitutional.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u270	Of course, but it is a judicial measure, under the control of a magistrate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u271	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u272	These three amendments were presented by three groups of elected representatives from the Republican Party; One tends to increase the duration of the detention from four hours to twelve hours, the other to eight hours, the last – the most moderate – to six hours. Since the beginning of this discussion, Messrs. Ciotti and Larrivé have repeatedly accused us of being lax, of not being cautious, of not taking enough account of the danger of the terrorist threat in our country. How is it then that the signatories of these three amendments did not agree? Will Mr Ciotti blame Mr Diard for being irresponsible, will he tell him that he is committing a historical mistake because he is not taking stock of the situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u273	We have the right to tolerate a diversity of opinions within our group!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u274	It's called fallback amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u275	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] More broadly, as Mr.Collumb said at the beginning of this bill's consideration, the extremely critical terms you used for us – you spoke of irresponsibility, political fault, lack of consideration of the reality of terrorism – sound strangely given the position of the Republicans in the Senate. According to your criteria, the members of this group have shown great irresponsibility, as they have returned to a number of government measures by demanding greater intervention by the judge of freedoms and detention. According to your own political logic, you are forced to admit that your friends in the Senate are as irresponsible as we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u276	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are not used to parliamentary debates: you should know that these are simply back-up amendments. We first propose the highest number, twelve hours, and then we propose shorter durations. All these amendments were submitted to a joint debate: this is the choice of service for the sitting, but they could also be discussed separately. First of all, I proposed a twelve-hour restraint: you are free to accept or refuse this amendment. My colleague Eric Diard then tabled a withdrawal amendment to increase the duration to six hours, knowing that the text of the bill, as presented to us by the Government, provides for a period of four hours. Our conduct is consistent. What guides us is the desire to improve the device. I do not believe that neither Guillaume Larrivé nor myself have ever, whether by defending procedural motions or in other interventions, accused your group of laxism or irresponsibility. On the other hand, we talked about mistakes and mistakes. We tell you again today, in conscience: given the seriousness of the threat, our analysis is diametrically opposed to yours. Indeed, we believe that it is a mistake – and even a mistake – to leave the state of emergency now. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] That is our analysis. It is not yours: each member of the national representation is free to assess the situation and to decide on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u278	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u279	[[The sitting was suspended at 17:15 and resumed at 17:25 with Ms Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u280	The meeting was resumed. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 318.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u281	The third paragraph of article L. 229-4 provides that a minor who is the subject of a restraining measure must be assisted by his or her legal representative. This amendment provides that this minor must also be assisted by a lawyer, since we are returning to ordinary law. The Ordinance of 2 February 1945 provides that the minor shall be assisted by a lawyer in criminal proceedings concerning him. The law of 18 November 2016 on the modernization of justice in the 21st century made it compulsory for a lawyer to assist minors in police custody. As you know, this reform has been implemented since 1 January. In these circumstances, not providing for the assistance of a lawyer for a detained minor would be a regression of our law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u282	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u283	Unfavorable opinion. In the ordinary law, the assistance of the lawyer is not required in the case of administrative detention. The text provided sufficient guarantees: paragraph 28, in particular, provided that the judge of liberty and detention could terminate the detention procedure at any time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u284	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u285	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u286	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u287	During the detention, the means are concentrated mainly on the visit, not on the person detained. If a police custody is implemented at the end of this detention, the detention time shall be deducted from the time of police custody. The purpose of this amendment, which is to delete paragraph 40, is to distinguish between detention time and time in police custody, with a view to rationalizing the use of time and means, always under the control of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u288	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u289	Again, this paragraph is the decal of ordinary law. In the usual practice, when a person is transferred to police custody after an administrative detention, the point of departure for police custody is that of detention. That is what has been done for many years. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u290	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u291	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u292	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u293	We are not in common law, but in the fight against terrorism!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u294	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u295	Our views differ fundamentally. We hope that a suspected person can be taken into custody as long as possible, so that all means of investigation can be used. I repeat, we do not wage war with the means of peace. However, we are at war with terrorism, and we are considering a text aimed at protecting the French and at combating terrorism. It is not a question of fighting ordinary violence but of protecting the French as much as possible. In the interests of rationalising the use of time and resources, always under the control of the judiciary, we would like this amendment to be adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u296	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 317.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u297	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u298	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 333.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u299	This amendment seeks to clarify the wording of paragraph 43. Paragraph 36 of the article provides that, from the end of the visit, the administrative authority shall request the judge of freedoms and detention to authorize the exploitation of the data entered. This amendment is intended to replace the term "data" with the generic term "elements" so that the request also relates to documents and objects seized. This substitution is all the more justified since the term "elements" is used at the end of the second sentence of paragraph 43 and paragraph 4 refers to "entry of documents, objects or data". Let us not restrictively draft this paragraph 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u300	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u301	Unfavorable opinion. Like the administrative judge in the context of the state of emergency, the judge of freedoms and detention will simply authorize the use of computer data.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u302	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u303	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u304	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 329.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u305	Same motivation as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u306	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 328.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u307	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u308	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 316.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u309	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u310	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 315.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u311	Co-ordination amendment to replace, in the same logic, the words "data and media" with "elements".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u312	I call Mrs Vanceunebrock-Mialon to support Amendment No. 383.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u313	The purpose of this amendment is to allow data on the total duration of a possible trial to be retained in order to ensure maximum efficiency in the prosecution of individuals prosecuted for terrorist acts. Let us not forget that this is a person within the definition of article L.228-1, not an individual guilty of mere shoplifting, which justifies keeping this data for longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u314	It's good to hear it from you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u315	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u316	Unfavorable opinion. This amendment is satisfactory because, in this case, we would switch to judicial proceedings. A record would then be drawn up and the evidence retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u317	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u318	I invite you, Madam Member, to withdraw your amendment, which is not necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u319	It's even useless.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u320	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u321	I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u322	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u323	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor to support Amendment No. 368.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u324	Following the hearing of the Paris prosecutor, I tabled this amendment to delete paragraph 52 incorporated by the Senate. Indeed, the persons concerned by a house visit had two legal remedies to appeal the same dispute. At the present stage of the bill, they may refer the matter to the examining chamber, which will decide on the possible nullity of the home visit, but they also have the remedies provided for in the judicial framework of the search, which could give rise to procedural problems and practical difficulties. The committee gave an opinion in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u325	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u326	Since the order of the judge of liberty and detention authorizing the home visit may be the subject of a specific appeal, it is not necessary to be able to challenge it again before the investigating judge. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u327	I have before me two identical amendments to delete Article 311 and 364. Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor to support Amendment No. 311.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u328	Our amendment tends to delete this article, the purpose of which is to resettle the deradicalisation structures. We have seen, through the various incidents which the press, particularly the judiciary, echoed, that these instruments of deradicalisation should often have been deradicalized themselves. When they did not fail in their work, they demonstrated their extraordinary ability to pump subsidies. We all remember these famous facts. We must remove from the scope of the fight against terrorism these so-called deradicalization structures, which we all know have unfortunately been a failure. We therefore propose to delete this section in order to de-align this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u329	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 364.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u330	Between 2015 and 2017, the grants allocated to the Interministerial Crime Prevention Fund doubled, bringing its budget to €123 million in 2017. This fund finances in particular the highly contested centres of deradicalisation, whose effectiveness is impossible to evaluate. On the other hand, we learn from the press that, in some cases, the French money is sent, stand by, to Syria! This was done by Syria Prevention Families, whose president has since been charged. At a time when budget cuts are being imposed on both the defence and the Ministry of the Interior budgets, at a time when the means to enable our police officers to work in decent conditions are dramatically lacking, we can legitimately question the effectiveness of these subsidies. The time is no longer for experimentation but for pragmatism. As early as 2015, MPs Patrick Mennucci and Eric Ciotti advocated the creation of a yellow budget where appropriations would be presented annually by ministry and by programme. This common sense measure would be a minimum. More recently, in 2017, Senator Esther Benbassa denounced in her step-by-step assessment the funding of these associations as a "grant gulf", or even a "deradicalization business" that has attracted some associations from the social sector in loss of financial resources as a result of the reduction of public subsidies. It is high time to stop demagogy and finally commit ourselves to the path of efficiency, to choose our priorities, in plain terms, not to give a single cent to these centres of deradicalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u332	Unfavorable opinion, since the very purpose of Article 4 bis A is to better regulate the structures of deradicalisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u334	The same opinion, since this article tends to regulate subsidies paid to third-party structures to carry out measures to prevent and combat radicalisation. Some highlight the questionable actions of a few officials to postulate the inefficiency of all the actors who have decided to invest, but we have put in place a more effective control. We cannot, on the pretext that one or two mistakes have been made, give up this programme. I am sure that, like us, you are aware that this mission of general interest, namely prevention and combating radicalisation, must be fulfilled. Therefore, this article should not be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u335	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u336	You'll finally fall into the trap. Because you have read "deradicalisation structures", you immediately objected to the proposed measures, even though this article tends to strengthen the control exercised over these structures, whether it is financial control over the granting of grants or that of the actions carried out. In truth, you are moved, in relation to this text, only by a will for political display. You have not read this text, the scope of which you have not studied, and you have not even tabled this amendment in committee. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] In the face of such a project, the measures in place are studied, evaluated, retained or improved. Please, a little serious, a little work and stop the political display! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u337	Why don't you go back to school?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u338	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u339	Yes, a little serious, indeed, when it comes to these associations that mock the world and steal money from the French! Senators, on your political side, have written reports to denounce the failure of these associations. Nearly 100 million euros in three years, it is the money of the French wasted in pure loss! [[Smile on several benches]] [[Applause from some non-attached Members]] You persist in a logic of support for these deradicalization structures, whose failure is however complete. Why do you keep on doing this when it doesn't work? Because it's a business? We understand that you are pro-business. You may support those who do a deradicalization business. As for us, we refuse to do so. We think it is useless, expensive and inefficient, even dangerous. I will go even further: the state should turn against these associations that have pumped French money for so many years. He should drag them to court!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u340	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u341	Our colleagues are exaggerating. Prevention is useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u342	These structures do not prevent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u343	Perhaps some associations have not played their part. It is up to the public authorities to control them – that is what the text provides for. It would therefore be a mistake to delete this article. I went to Denmark with Mr Ciotti to study the methods of prevention. Numerous experiments have been carried out with associations in the field of deradicalisation. After taking stock of them, some of them were generalised. Failures should not lead us to eliminate any experimentation in the fight against radicalisation through preventive measures. I am obviously in favour of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u344	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u345	To justify the deletion of the article, Ms Ménard, you refer to the obscure funding of certain anti-radicalization associations. The purpose of this article is precisely to clarify: to regulate the payment of grants, to make public the accounts of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u346	You're in a dead end!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u347	It also provides that the obligations are also applicable in the event of dissolution. We are satisfied with the balance found in this article. It is stated that the structures are eligible for subsidies. This does not mean that they will benefit automatically.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u348	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u349	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] You are against these structures, but asking for the deletion of this article will not prevent drifts and will not clarify their method of financing. We absolutely must maintain Article 4 bis A, and we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u350	You're in a total dead end!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u351	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 406.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u352	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the concept of radicalisation. I would like to welcome the preventive structures mentioned in the article. We know that the fight against radicalisation also and above all involves integration. The latter is indispensable for the acceptance of living together. I commend the work of volunteers and educators, who are ramparts against extremism and radical Islamism. There may be illegal passengers or abuses, but I know the daily and disinterested commitment of volunteers...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u353	Not really selfless in this case...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u354	I wanted to pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u355	The rapporteur, Mr Raphaël Gauvain, has the floor to support Amendment No. 293.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u356	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u358	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u359	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support Amendment No. 515.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u360	I apologize for the approximate wording of the amendment, which relates to the text adopted by the Senate. But his words remain valid. The aim is to ensure that the mayors of the municipalities in whose territory the structures will be established are informed of the investigation of the application for approval and of the obtaining of the grants. I am in keeping with the remarks made by the Minister of State in committee: mayors are at the forefront of deradicalization and reconstruction of the social bond. It is not possible that they will not be kept informed of how the social fabric is rebuilt in their communes. As much as I can understand, mayors are not informed about national security issues – we can debate them – because it is not their role and we do not know what they will do with this information, as much as it seems to me that in terms of prevention and combating radicalisation, they are at the heart of the system. The purpose of this amendment, the wording of which should be reviewed, is to ensure the association of mayors with the procedure and their information on the follow-up given to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u361	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u362	Unfavorable opinion. As you said, the amendment relates to the text adopted by the Senate. More generally, mayors are already involved in the monitoring cells set up within the framework of the system for preventing and combating radicalisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u363	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u364	I share what you said. I do, however, express an unfavorable opinion, because if it is necessary for mayors to be informed, there is no need to increase the procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u365	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to support Amendment No. 481.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u366	Forgive the rough wording again, but the background remains relevant. I do not think the requirement for structures seeking subsidies to produce a financial report is sufficient. I believe it is necessary for them to submit a two-year forecast budget. To remove the doubts, it is a question of knowing where the money comes from – this is not a negligible subject, because the funding is not only public – and how the funds are used. The production of ex post financial reporting is not sufficient in the case of ultra-sensitive structures such as those working on deradicalisation. It is important to know how resources are used as soon as grants are made. If you wish to raise any suspicion on this matter, minister, it is not pointless to be zealous. If you want to avoid doubts about the use of funds and their effectiveness, it is necessary to redouble your transparency efforts. I am not in favour of the escalation of the procedure on security measures. On the other hand, to increase the procedure to the benefit of the mayors' information, you will agree that this does not call into question national security. On the contrary, this could avoid the sterile and unnecessary debates that we have just witnessed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u367	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u368	Unfavorable opinion. Article 4aa already provides guarantees to regulate deradicalisation structures. The fact of imposing on an association, at the time of its creation, the presentation of an estimate budget totally runs counter to the freedom of association recognized by the 1901 law, which is part of our constitutionality block. The guarantees provided for in the article are, in my opinion, of such a nature as to satisfy the objective which you pursue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u369	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u370	The establishment of a recognized foundation or association of public utility is already subject to the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior and the Council of State, which in particular makes it possible to verify the source of the resources. In case of doubt, creation is not allowed. I express an unfavorable opinion, because your amendment is satisfactory. You could even take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u371	If I were in the majority, I would!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u372	Intelligence goes beyond political divides!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u373	It is true that it is not the prerogative of the majority! I reject the argument of unconstitutionality. In my view, the article already contravenes the freedom of association, since the granting of public funds is conditional on the signing of a convention with the State. In addition, the presentation of an estimated budget is already an obligation for certain associations beyond a certain amount. Secondly, and I would insist, Madam Minister, if you wish to remove the doubts, you will not succeed without making all the light on these structures. It is, in my view, somewhat negligent to sweep with a back of hand the healthy requirement to see it clearer on subjects that are being debated.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u374	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u375	I understand that some of your political opponents are attacking you by questioning the respect for public freedoms in this text. This is not a point of view that we adhere to. But these attacks should not lead you to see systematically the constraints imposed on associations that receive public funding to carry out actions of public benefit to infringements of freedom of association. We are far from an infringement of constitutional freedom. We have to pay attention to the arguments we make. The aim is to consolidate the tools that can be used to reaffirm the values of the Republic in certain territories. It is not an infringement of the freedom of association to ask these structures to prove their plans and their strength before they can benefit from public funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u376	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u377	The effectiveness of such structures is measured by their results. Minister, how can these results be assessed? The task seems difficult to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u378	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u379	I fully agree with my colleagues in the Republican Group. Article 4 bis A addresses their concerns by providing for the production of a financial report. This is a completely banal approach for any association that requests funds in the prefecture. Demand is always subject to the production of an estimated budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u380	Why doesn't the article specify it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u381	The article mentions the financial report. Any application for a grant in the prefecture must contain an estimated budget, whatever the nature of the association. It's an absolute obligation. If this budget does not show the use of the grant in revenue and expenditure, the grant will not be granted. For 15 years I have accompanied many such cases, I can assure you that this is the way it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u382	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor. You have already spoken, dear colleague; I therefore ask you to be very brief.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u383	Minister, I would like you to clarify: why have you used the term "structures", if it is only a matter of referring to associations governed by the 1901 Act? I'm sorry to insist, but the word has not been chosen in an innocuous manner. I assume that the Minister of State, the Minister and their services are vigilant on this point. What is behind the word "structures"? Is he referring only to associations governed by the 1901 Act? I would remind you that this is not a particular petanque club, but an association aimed at deradicalisation, which justifies a certain degree of vigilance on our part.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u384	Indeed! That's legitimate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u385	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u386	Colleague, I would like to point out that the article does not come from the Government but has been inserted into the text by the Senate. The aim is to regulate the provisions by which public authorities may entrust an association or foundation with the task of implementing a programme to prevent and combat radicalisation. Article 4aa(2) states that "The granting of such grants shall be subject to the conclusion of an agreement, the production of a financial report and the deposit and publication of such documents. Your amendment therefore seems to me to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u387	Thank you for this brilliant reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u388	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u389	Article 4 bis A deals with "structures with the object or activity of preventing and combating radicalisation", a formulation sufficiently broad to include associations, foundations, enterprises, public institutions and even hospitals, which could combat radicalisation. In addition, there is an inter-ministerial committee on crime prevention and radicalization, which will meet shortly. The Government will continue to reflect on all these centres, as part of its ambitious policy: professionalization of preventive measures, with increased use of actors on the ground, social workers, care professionals; strengthening the inter-ministerial monitoring and evaluation of the actions carried out; increased awareness of radicalisation processes in all sectors of social life, to strengthen vigilance and prevention; Finally, strengthening work with Internet actors to remove hate and jihadist content, and deepening support for civil society actors committed to radicalisation discourses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u390	The rapporteur, Mr Raphaël Gauvain, has the floor to support Amendment No. 294.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u391	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u392	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for an explanation of vote on the item.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u393	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u394	It's been a long break!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u395	Excuse me? What break? Indeed, I went to buy Doliprane, because I had a headache.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u396	I'm not surprised!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u397	These are things that happen. I'm still here. I wanted to remind you that we are in favour of Article 4 bis A, that we will vote, because we will look at each article through the prism of our values. This clarification will perhaps exempt the rapporteur, in his forthcoming speeches, from criticizing us for our constant and systematic opposition to the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u398	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u399	Two speakers are inscribed on rule 4 bis. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u400	Article 4 bis is based on the great wisdom of the Senate, which wished to shorten the initial period of application. But on the date it chose – 31 December 2021 – the committee preferred 31 December 2020, which we welcome. This judicious provision will dispel some fears: it is not a question of introducing into our common law what measures are in violation of freedoms. In addition, it will only be known if they pose a risk if they can be assessed. That is what we will propose you to do, thanks to an amendment that will be called in a moment. Only an evaluation of the law will determine whether these articles should be sustained and, above all, whether they should evolve in one direction or another. I therefore hope that our amendment will be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u401	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u402	It will be very interesting to have a detailed report on the application of the law, but this proposal does not go far enough. We believe it is necessary to create an evaluation mission. On this subject, the Government is against the opinion of the French, who, in the majority, as all opinion studies show, do not wish to leave the state of emergency. That is why we owe them such a mission. On the other hand, the President of the Republic has long claimed that he does not have a plan to combat terrorism. It will therefore be useful to know whether the measures adopted by this House have any effect. Finally, Madam Minister, you have told us about your concern for efficiency and your desire to continue working with the deradicalization associations. An evaluation mission will quickly provide us with objective results on the measures of the bill and on the effectiveness of these associations that you hold so dear. We will see if the text achieves some of its objectives. For our part, we believe that it will be inoperative, and we consider it incoherent. The state of affairs resulting from an assessment mission will be more interesting than a simple detailed report, which we would not have the opportunity to discuss. Let's go, then, for an assessment mission, of which I am sure you have nothing to fear.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u403	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 258.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u404	By this article which makes temporary until 2021 the provisions of the most liberal text, contained in articles 1 to 4, the Senate wanted to show compromise and a certain form of wisdom, hoping in fact "to limit the break". However, this article of withdrawal represents a major step backwards, since it assumes the task of incorporating the law of the state of emergency into the ordinary law. Even if the provisions in question were only applicable until 2021 or even 2020, they would reflect the shift from exceptional to everyday. This serious difficulty shows the hypocrisy of the text. Since the amendments of reason that we have proposed have not been adopted, neither can the amendments to delete Articles 1 to 4, we can subscribe to the tartufferie which consists of undressing Peter to clothe Paul. If national representation considers that the infringements of the law created by Articles 1 to 4 are necessary and must be only temporary – since limited until 2021 – that it undertakes to extend the state of emergency, instead of transcribing it into ordinary law! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, the group of La France insoumée proposes the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u405	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u406	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u407	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u408	Dear colleagues in the group of La France, you do not give up your attitude of systematic opposition, since you plead for the deletion of the article. We will discuss parliamentary control and the time limitation of Articles 3 and 4, which will therefore be experimental. So many measures you should associate with!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u409	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u410	Of course, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u411	Of course?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u412	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u413	Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u414	We too will reject the deletion amendment. The experimental, provisional nature of the provisions contained in clauses 3 and 4, voted by the Senate, seems to us to be relevant. It will enable an evaluation, as the rapporteur pointed out. Even if these measures are partial and limited to the prevention of terrorism, they are based on those provided for in the state of emergency, which they transpose into ordinary law. It is therefore useful to retain an experimental character, since we are building an exceptional, extraordinary legal arrangement. In addition, I see a major interest in the existence of a re-visit clause not in 2021, but in 2020, since the committee adopted our amendment and that of other Members. On that date, we will have a political and democratic debate here on the appropriateness, depending on the level of threat, of maintaining in the common law provisions which are derived or inspired by an extraordinary right, or which are, at least in the context of a state of emergency, limited in time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u415	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u416	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u417	Mr rapporteur, I voted in favour of the previous article. There is therefore no strategy on our part to delete all the articles. I would also point out that some of our amendments make proposals. Sometimes, maybe you'll vote a few. The deadline of 2021, or even 2020, is hypocrisy. Do you seek to reassure yourself, knowing that you question such fundamental principles as the separation of powers and that you give exorbitant powers to the executive? Planning a term, in 2020, is perhaps a way to give you a good conscience or, you never know, to avoid going too far... That seems to me to be the feeling that animated the Senate. This is probably yours, since you have retained the principle of a deadline. However, in the texts adopted in recent years, whenever a deadline had been set, a law had then been passed to abolish it. This is also the case, in an article of the text, for a date fixed by an earlier text. A measure introduced until 2018 was to be assessed before being extended or repealed. The deadline was removed prior to any evaluation. This ratchet effect, this forward leak continues and will continue. In short, in our view, the deadline for 2020 is a slippery, hypocrisy, which justifies the adoption of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u418	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u419	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u420	The Republican Group will not vote for the deletion amendment. When it comes to security and freedoms, it is sound to provide for appointment clauses before Parliament. It is our office, as MPs, to evaluate the law we are voting on, especially on these matters. The principle is not new. The Act of 23 January 2006 on the fight against terrorism, adopted at the initiative of Nicolas Sarkozy, then Minister of State for the Interior, contained many appointment clauses. It is reasonable to maintain them. Most of the amendments we are presenting are themselves subject to an appointment clause in 2018. The logic of our group is to propose an extension of the state of emergency, i.e. a state of law derogating from ordinary law, with an appointment clause.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u421	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u422	As we have said, this article gives an experimental character to the measures we have adopted in Articles 3 and 4. We share the view of the Senate, which introduced these measures, but we wanted to make some changes to them; Like others, La République en marche has heard the end of the experiment move forward by one year. Indeed, from our point of view, this time is sufficient to ensure the effectiveness of these devices. Moreover, we know that terrorism is evolving and we must constantly adapt the answers given. This should be done on the date set. That is why we will not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u423	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 150.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u424	I am pleased to learn that the Government can predict the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u425	It's not about predicting the future, it's about preserving it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u426	[[Exclaims on the benches of the REM and NG groups]] [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] [[Same movements]] In fact, you limited the application of these provisions to 31 December 2020. So, in three years, the terrorist threat will be eradicated! I can only hope for it, but unfortunately, I doubt it! Can we be so naive to the Islamist enemy? Will we still continue to think that terrorists are just unbalanced, as most media like to repeat? No, they are men aware of their actions, pursuing clear objectives: they want the establishment of a caliphate in France, they want women to be hidden behind a veil, they want France's happy soul to be extinguished. Their project has no time limit. They will never stop, or rather, if: they will stop on the day when, on every town hall, every school, every church, will stand the icy flag of the Islamic State, the day when most of the recalcitrants at the establishment of this caliphate will be stabbed, killed or killed. So that's not what happened with Islamist terrorists? Defining a time limit therefore seems absurd, and even dangerous. The provisions that we include in the Code of Internal Security must simply be maintained as long as the threat exists and the lives of the French will be threatened.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u427	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u428	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u429	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u430	The clarifications made by this amendment, Madam, are of no legal interest. Indeed, it will be up to Parliament, in the light of the assessment to be presented by the Government and the effectiveness of the mechanisms engaged, to decide, as we have just pointed out, in 2020, whether it is appropriate and appropriate to renew the measures in Articles 3 and 4. For these reasons, the Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u431	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u432	We are definitely hearing special things in this House. There is now a timetable for terrorism; There are also experimental measures: we will test, we will play with the security of the French! The reality is, you're telling us, you're in a fog. This bill is a vast masquerade – a "tartufferie," said our colleague Caroline Fiat. Actually, we're finding out you're doing nothing but smoking. You see nothing, you have no purpose, no purpose; You just have a timetable, which allows you to tell us that Islamist terrorism will stop in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u433	That's not what was said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u434	We have just found out that this bill is absolutely not on the road and that it is completely inoperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u435	That's mediocre!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u436	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u437	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] I find that it is not very worthy, when speaking about terrorism, to speak of "scratch", "tartuffery", "hypocrisy", "mascarade" and "smokers".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u438	Tartufferie is your article!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u439	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u440	I would like to reply to Mrs Ménard, who has caused confusion. In fact, people suffering from psychiatric pathology sometimes commit acts, thinking that this will make them important, that they will be talked about in the media: by closing psychiatric hospitals, this type of case comes to pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u441	This is another debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u442	We should not mix everything: there are real psychiatric patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u443	We don't mix!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u444	There are people suffering from psychiatric pathologies, and there are terrorists – we do not say otherwise – who must not mix everything together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u445	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u446	Mrs Ménard, the principle of experimenting with our legislative measures is a better way to combat the terrorist threat. With your reasoning, our right would have remained at the stage of prehistory!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u447	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u448	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] But this may be your goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u449	So you have no certainty!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u450	Mr Erwan Balanant, in support of Amendment No. 101, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u451	We just heard some interesting talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u452	No, not so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u453	No, perhaps not interesting, but at least revealing. For our part, we are proposing an amendment to evaluate the law. In fact, there is much talk of evaluation, of the new powers Parliament could assume. I think evaluation is not a simple thing. When we tabled this amendment in committee, we were told that it was a little too complex: but evaluating public policies is, in fact, a complex task. What we are proposing in this amendment is to set up an ad hoc monitoring committee to evaluate, over time and events, the measures contained in these Articles 3 and 4. Perhaps we will see the need to change those provisions, in which case national representation will work. In my view, it would be a sign of modernity to accept that a law is not frozen in time, since, as you know as well as I do, the terrorist threat is protective and changing. In other words, the provisions that we are currently adopting may not be effective tomorrow. That is why the MODEM Group is proposing this amendment, which seeks to create a follow-up committee composed of two members, two senators, a representative of the Ministry of the Interior and a representative of the Ministry of Justice, to stick to the reality of the field. Indeed, the only parliamentary assessment – carried out on the one hand by senators and on the other by members of the House of Commons – does not seem to me to respond to the complexity of the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u454	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u455	This is an unfavourable opinion, but we will have the opportunity to talk about parliamentary scrutiny very soon, when we consider an amendment by Mr Dussopt. On this occasion, we can meet again to put in place parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u456	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u457	Parliamentary scrutiny is certainly one of Parliament's tasks, but I regret to note that the measure you are proposing is not in the legislative sphere but in the regulatory field. In addition, the two parliamentary assemblies frequently set up oversight committees, the work of which was led by co-rapporteurs. I would add that the association of parliamentarians and representatives of the ministries of justice and the interior, which you suggest, is likely to violate the principle of separation of powers. We must leave it to Parliament to exercise its supervisory role, and I think it would be more reasonable for you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u458	We will not remove it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u459	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u460	We don't need to reinvent the powder in this house! There are tools, such as the evaluation mission, which is provided for in the texts. There is no need to create a follow-up committee, to add administration to the administration. Otherwise, we'll drown the fish. It says a lot about your thinking. In fact, you're having us vote tonight on a very small administrative law. You follow a soft defensive logic, and you do not identify the stakes or constraints inherent in the fight against Islamic terrorism. In fact, you have not identified this specific dimension of the terrorist act, and you are providing answers that are completely beside reality. We are now being offered administrative evaluation missions, a little like in the Soviet Union fifty years ago. Is that the new world? No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u461	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u462	I made a small mistake in the presentation of the amendment: I spoke of "control". However, the proposed mechanism relates to evaluation. The aim is to set up a monitoring committee responsible for evaluation. My language shook up when I spoke of "control": I insist that it is not about that. If our proposal were to establish powers of control – the minister is right – our proposal would no longer be admissible from a constitutional point of view. However, in so far as it is intended to give this committee a simple power of assessment, we consider our amendment to be legally admissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u463	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u464	This amendment has a good feeling and is moving in the right direction, although it is regrettable that it limits the number of Members to two on the committee; Our group would indeed be called upon to participate in this evaluation. Madam Minister, if this section has been challenged, it does not, of course, mean that we are opposed to the fight against terrorism. I tell you very quietly: if you want to combine, do it, but it's not serious, it's not up to our debates. I therefore agree, once it is not customary, with Mr Balanant's proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u465	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u466	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 334.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u467	I have already had the opportunity to explain how timely an assessment mission could be with respect to the provisions of this bill. I am telling our colleagues not to worry about this mechanism: it is provided for in the texts, use it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u468	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u469	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u470	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u471	Unfavorable. I don't understand very well, because you just said exactly the opposite of what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u472	No, you don't understand, it's good to recognize him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u473	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 453.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u474	We withdraw it in favour of Amendments Nos 123 and 124, which will be defended by our colleague Olivier Dussopt, and which we believe are more appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u475	I have before me three amendments, Nos 303, 123 and 124, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 303.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u476	This amendment provides for the continuation of the monitoring and evaluation mission, which was set up during the fourth extension of the state of emergency and consists of seven deputies and seven senators, thereby ensuring a joint representation of both assemblies and of each political family. It shall verify that all measures taken in the context of the state of emergency comply with the rule of law. It represents an important step forward, a result of discussions with the then government and Prime Minister Manuel Valls, and allows Parliament to play its full role. Minister, you know very well that the Constitution gives Parliament a role in assessing and monitoring government action. The separation of powers, yes, but the control of government action also rests with Parliament. This mission was a balance between all the political groups of the time, which is in line with the statement made yesterday by the Minister of State that the right balance between security and freedom must always be struck. Every year, a debate must be held in this forum to ascertain whether the legal arsenal is suitable for the fight against terrorism and to better support the Government in its mission of protecting the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u477	On Amendment No 123, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Dussopt to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u478	If you will, Madam President, I shall at the same time defend Amendment No 124, on which we have also called for a public vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u479	On Amendment No 124, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u480	As our colleague Philippe Vigier mentioned at the moment, we were forced for the first time to extend the state of emergency, declared by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, Manuel Valls, after the attacks on the Bataclan and the terraces in Paris. Parliament inserted an article 4-1 in the Act of 3 April 1955 to establish a parliamentary review of the implementation of the provisions of the state of emergency. During the penultimate extension of the state of emergency, in July 2016, we further strengthened this parliamentary oversight by asking the administrative authorities to inform directly and in real time the Chair of the Law Committee of the National Assembly and the Chair of the Senate Law Committee of all actions undertaken pursuant to the state of emergency provisions. It is this particular control that has enabled the Committee on Laws and, more broadly, our Assembly, to be informed anonymously of all the acts and decisions taken pursuant to these provisions. Sections 1 to 4 of the bill are based on the state of emergency, as I said earlier, because they are the same measures and provisions, limited to the prevention of terrorism and excluding the issue of policing. Our group is convinced that the best way to prevent abuses in the use of a state of emergency is to ensure the closest possible control. That is why our Amendments Nos 123 and 124 propose to duplicate the model of parliamentary scrutiny put in place at the time of the state of emergency for the provisions of Articles 1 to 4 of the bill. We tabled two amendments to the slightly different wording, with No 124 certainly the most reassuring for those who were concerned about a possible breach of the separation of powers. Since the sub-amendments proposed by the rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee on Laws concern No 124, I should like to withdraw No 123, although I would point out that its wording did not, in our view, call into question the separation of powers, as I had the opportunity to say in the general discussion. If the wording of No 124 is more suitable for everyone, we shall remain with this amendment. [[Applause on a few benches of the NG group]] We hope that this control can be put in place and that our Assembly will be informed, at least during the experimental period, of all actions, decisions and measures taken pursuant to Articles 1 to 4. We will have a re-visit clause and the best way to feed and enlighten the debate is to allow our assembly to have particular control. We transpose into ordinary law these provisions, which come from an unusual, almost extraordinary law, and with exceptional provisions, there must be exceptional control measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u481	I have before me two sub-amendments, Nos 528 and 527 corrected, to Amendment No 124, which can be presented in a consolidated format. The rapporteur, Raphaël Gauvain, has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u482	The committee gives an opinion in favour of Amendment No 124 by Mr Dussopt, which I propose to sub-amend. There is a consensus to put in place a specific parliamentary control, but we want to limit it to Articles 3 and 4, which concern individual measures and home visits, for which the infringement of public freedoms can be most discussed. The committee is therefore against the adoption of Amendment No 303 and in favour of Amendment No 124, as amended by Amendments Nos 528 and 527 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u483	What is the Government's opinion, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u484	The Government is opposed to the adoption of amendment No. 124, even under amendment. In fact, the Parliament has a very high level of information and control under the state of emergency, introduced by the law of 20 November 2015 extending the state of emergency. Duplicating such control, which legitimately applies during the exceptional period of the state of emergency, does not seem to us to be justified for ordinary administrative police measures and would be contrary to the principle of the separation of powers referred to by Mr Vigier. There is no justification for the continued daily transmission of copies of certain administrative police acts rather than others to Parliament. If this logic were to be followed, it would have to be consistently extended to include many other administrative police measures in the field of terrorism, such as measures for the removal of aliens, the freezing of assets, the prohibition of exit and the dissolution of associations. However, in accordance with article 24 of the Constitution, as amended by the Constitutional Act of 23 July 2008 on the modernization of the institutions of the Fifth Republic, the Parliament monitors the action of the Government without, however, being able to establish itself as a permanent supervisory body for each of the decisions taken by the Government. Such oversight, which was a matter for the judiciary, would call into question the separation of powers and the spirit of our institutions, which the Constitutional Council has recently recalled with regard to the abolition of the ministerial reservation, which is the sole prerogative of the Government. I would also remind you that Parliament has a power of control under ordinary law, reinforced by the 2008 Constitutional Act, and it can only be called upon to do so. Among many of the Government's monitoring tools, such as written and topical issues, the Parliament has several types of committees capable of exercising effective control over the measures under discussion. Article 4 bis, as passed by the Senate, provides that the Minister of the Interior shall submit an annual report. The Government intends to report annually on the implementation of the measures that Parliament authorizes it to take. This report could, of course, be accompanied by hearings, if Parliament so wished, and by a quarterly dispatch of statistics allowing Parliament to measure the extent of the decisions taken. However, it cannot be transformed into a control of the same nature as that of the state of emergency. We therefore propose that you keep to the principle of the detailed annual report and double it with quarterly statistics and hearings if you so wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u485	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u486	The New Left Group's proposal, which may satisfy our colleagues in the MODEM and Constructive groups, introduces parliamentary scrutiny similar to that which was put in place during the state of emergency and goes in the right direction in the eyes of the majority group. Parliamentary scrutiny has proved to be effective in the twenty-three months of a state of emergency. The Monitoring Committee met more than 10 times during this period and produced very comprehensive reports on the measures taken in the state of emergency and their concrete results. Nevertheless, the draft law makes an adaptation of the provisions of the state of emergency in the ordinary law, and the Republic on the move Group believes that such control is not justified for all the measures mentioned in the amendments. As you know, the Senate has given sections 3 and 4 of this bill an experimental character, because they are both more restrictive of freedoms than sections 1 and 2. We agree with this measure and have even decided, in the Committee on Laws and in the House, to move forward to 2020 the end of the life of these articles. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] The Group of the European People's Party supports Amendment No 124 by Mr Dussopt, as long as the rapporteur's sub-amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u487	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u488	Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u489	Madam Minister, I have heard your argument and regret not to share it; There are subjects on which we can find ourselves, but not on this one. Contrary to what you have said, it is important that Parliament can exercise exceptional control over such exceptional measures and thus feed the debate during the re-visit clause.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u490	It's fundamental!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u491	On the other hand, I do not believe that my amendment affects the separation of powers. He asked that the acts and decisions taken by the administrative authorities should be forwarded to Parliament, but at no time did he mention the judicial authorities. Even if we had quoted the latter for the passing on of the orders made by the judges of freedoms and detention, there would have been no infringement of the separation of powers because it would not have caused interference with their ability to judge, the timeliness of their judgment and their work. I therefore do not believe that my amendment calls into question the separation of powers, but, in response to this concern, we have adopted a wording that targets only the administrative authorities. With regard to the two sub-amendments by the rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee on Laws, supported by the majority group, I can understand the logic of restricting specific control to Articles 3 and 4, which provide for measures restricting freedom, and of excluding Articles 1 and 2, which concern security perimeters and the closure of places of worship. Nevertheless, we regret this position, because we believe that Articles 1 to 4 deserve special scrutiny. The debate would usefully be supported by statistical surveys, but it would be necessary to do so on the number of security perimeters established, on their duration or on the number of closed places of worship. If the sub-amendments were adopted, which I have no doubt about in view of the configuration of our Assembly, I would hope that we would still have information on places of worship and security perimeters. We are committed to the fullness of our amendment No 124, but we would continue to support it if the majority did not amend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u492	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u493	We will support Amendment No 124 by Mr Dussopt, even if it appears to us as a bandage on a wooden leg, since we were opposed to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. If we remain opposed to these articles, however, we would prefer to have a slightly stricter control over their application, particularly with a view to the re-visitation clause in 2020, provided that it is effectively maintained. That is our state of mind. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] On the other hand, I do not agree with the rapporteur's sub-amendments. I do not understand why we should focus solely on individual measures. On the contrary, it seems to me that the first four measures in this text, whether individual or not, are in breach of freedoms. As such, they must be subject to special scrutiny. I hope that our MODEM colleagues will join in these amendments, since they themselves wanted to set up an evaluation no later than about ten minutes ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u494	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u495	On behalf of the New Left Group, since this amendment is the result of collective work, I would like to express to you our satisfaction at being able to discuss in this way in the House with our colleagues in the Republic on the move, and no doubt with the Republicans and other representatives of the opposition. It was very important to put in place for the first time such parliamentary control as we did under the previous quinquennium. While the situation was unprecedented, extremely serious, very specific and likely to upset our institutions, we managed to preserve the quality and balance of these institutions by endorsing the exceptional measures of parliamentary scrutiny. However, let me remind you, Madam Minister, that section 24 of the Constitution gives Parliament an extensive oversight role.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u496	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u497	It is not a question of monitoring the individual measure taken by the police service, but simply of having the elements to assess the quality of the control that can be exercised within the framework of this system. [[Applause on a few benches of the NG group]] We are taking an extremely important step here which will enable the Committee on Laws to base its reflection on extremely important measures which are binding on our institutions. Articles 3 and 4 have been difficult to work on, and you have had to explain repeatedly what you intended to do through these articles. The answer through parliamentary scrutiny is a wise and worthy response from our institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u498	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u499	I fully agree with what Mrs Untermaier has said. This amendment is a good amendment, it is an amendment of common sense. It is Parliament's role to monitor the specific and specific measures contained in this bill. I come back a little bit to the burden, but it seems to me that it would have been perfect to adopt this amendment in addition to the one we presented earlier on evaluation, because evaluating is not exactly the same as monitoring. Evaluation is an element that we must integrate into the work we are doing here in this Parliament. It is perhaps at this very moment in the legislature that we must do so, in a movement of national unity; Because if the Republicans voted for this amendment, it would be a good sign...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u500	We know what we have to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u501	We have just said that we are going to control, and it is probably time to say that we are going to evaluate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u502	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u503	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u504	Our colleague Untermaier has given important sentences. Thirteen texts have been adopted on security and terrorism. It was only at the fourth extension of the state of emergency that we put this control in place, which was not done under simple conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u505	We have proceeded in stages!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u506	You can imagine that we had to talk, on all those benches. We have all agreed that this control would be carried out between the Assembly and the Senate, in a joint manner, with the representation of all political groups. In this way, the scope of control cannot be reduced to two articles, which is at stake is too serious. These are exceptional laws, they are outside the framework of the state of emergency for the reasons you have set out; What are you afraid of in parliamentary scrutiny? What do you have to fear from this control? During the attacks, we were summoned to Matignon every fortnight; We were told exactly where we were and all the parliamentary groups were involved and informed. What difficulties do you see that we can challenge the Government, evaluate, monitor, improve things? We know that, as was said earlier, the risk is protein, terrible. There may be attacks sooner or later, and our legal arsenal must be the most appropriate. It is therefore Parliament's job, its responsibility. What you are proposing is a real regression from what was going on earlier. Last night, ladies and gentlemen, a Member of Parliament for the Republic on the move said that the Committee on Laws, having conducted hearings and validated a number of amendments, did not need the rest of Parliament to take a decision. That happened last night at midnight and quarter. But what are we serving, ladies and gentlemen? Parliamentary scrutiny is not nothing: it is defined by the Constitution. And this is not just any text: it is about the fight against terrorism and the establishment of a suitable arsenal. We all agreed on this arsenal. What you're proposing is a linear regression, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u507	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u508	Ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Group will vote for these amendments, which allow the National Assembly to do its part. We are the National Assembly, we have the constitutional mission to monitor the action of the Government, which is responsible to us. We support both measures to strengthen the security of the French and measures to strengthen the freedoms of Parliament. There is no question of opposing security to Parliament's freedoms, quite the contrary! Our mission here is to monitor the action of the Government in the interests of France and the French. At the technical level, the amendment tabled by Mr Dussopt suits us all the better because it is very similar to that which we had already adopted together under the previous provisions. On the other hand, we will not vote for the restrictive sub-amendments tabled by the rapporteur. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, I would like to reiterate our conviction that the Fifth Republic is a parliamentary system whose essence remains parliamentary, even if its presidential dimension has been affirmed over time. When we read the beautiful speech delivered by Michel Debré before the General Assembly of the Council of State in August 1958, we see that the essence of the regime rests on the expression of the freedoms of the French through the National Assembly. And even if the neo-Jupiterian evolution of the system over the past few months could sometimes make it forget, our regime is parliamentary, and the rights of the National Assembly must be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u509	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u510	I just want to make a point: we do not question parliamentary scrutiny at all. With the inclusion of the state of emergency in the ordinary law, parliamentary control over the state of emergency is maintained. The law commission can hear people, audition, evaluate. In the context of the experiment provided for in Articles 3 and 4, there is increased parliamentary scrutiny, but parliamentary control over Articles 1 and 2, as well as Articles 5 to 12, remains. He's not being questioned. I therefore call on you to vote on both sub-amendments so that there is stronger parliamentary control,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u511	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u512	... in order for the administration to communicate to Parliament the decisions it will take under Articles 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u513	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u514	Of course, I do not underestimate the role of Parliament, I do not underestimate the control role of Parliament enshrined in the Constitution. However, you will establish parliamentary control over Article 4, which refers to decisions taken by the judicial authority, which means that you will violate the separation of powers, which is also enshrined in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u515	What separation of powers? It is the text itself that affects the separation of powers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u516	It's when it suits you, the separation of powers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u517	Ladies and gentlemen, since everyone has been able to speak, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u518	I put to the vote Amendment No 124, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u519	The Government is put in a minority!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u520	This isn't the first time!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u521	I have before me two amendments, Nos 159 and 130, which can be presented together. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u522	We will not withdraw these amendments, despite the satisfaction we all feel that we have won together on this issue of parliamentary control. It is pleasant to see the institution so creative.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u523	Government absolutism is broken!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u524	This amendment of the New Left...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u525	And that's just the beginning! There's no president anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u526	[[At 18:55, Ms. Cendra Motin replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u527	This amendment introduced by the New Left also draws lessons from the experience of the field: we have seen for five years that the police and justice services, the administrative services and the corrections services had great difficulty in dialogue together. It therefore seemed important to us, at a time when the emphasis was on combating terrorism and when we were ready to adopt innovative provisions and arrangements, to consider the establishment of a forum for dialogue that would enable those services which were intended to work along very close borders to communicate and create synergies between them. It is not a question of making each other's actions subordinate to the authority of the other, but of making the work coherent, of establishing an absolutely indispensable dialogue and exchange, at least at the local level, because as far as the central level is concerned, I leave you to judge, Madam Minister. You will object that this measure is of a regulatory nature, but I maintain that it is not prohibited to include regulatory provisions in the law, and that it is never sanctioned by the Constitutional Council. In addition, given the difficulty of having the services work together because of the previous jobs that I have carried out, it seems to me that it would be very interesting to rely on the strength of the law to set up these forums for dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u528	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u529	Unfavorable opinion. We have reached a balance on parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u530	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u531	Unfavorable opinion. I don't know why, Mrs Untermaier just said she knows! Moreover, it is said as a wink, dialogue forums, monitoring, evaluation, all of this does a lot anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u532	It's our job!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u533	This is the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u534	Delete Parliament, it will go faster!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u535	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u536	Dialogue is always necessary. Regrettably, the fruits that it produces sometimes find it difficult to trace back to the Government. I am elected from the Haut-Rhin, in Mulhouse, where an experiment was carried out on deradicalization and was the subject of parliamentary reports which were tabled in the office of the Minister of Justice. All professionals agree that the Mulhouse experiment bears fruit, does not cost much and allows for the reintegration of radicalised young people into normal and republican circuits. Unfortunately, the reports find it difficult to go back to the minister, who found three weeks ago that she was unaware of the existence of this mechanism, while the report that presented it was tabled on her desk. Formalizing forums for dialogue has at least the merit of forcing information to be traced, including through the deconcentrated services of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u537	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u538	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u539	With all due respect, minister, these amendments are appeal amendments. We did not expect unanimity in the House, but simply to hear you say that you are sensitive to the problem and that in the twenty-first century you are contemplating the work of the State services with justice too, without subordination but with coherence, because the fight against terrorism is worth it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u540	That goes without saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u541	But that's not reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u542	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, in support of Amendment No 269 on the additional Rule before Rule 4b.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u543	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u544	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u545	This article proposes to add geolocation to a list of investigative measures that may be carried out by authorization of the public prosecutor for a period of 48 hours following the opening of a pre-trial investigation into terrorism. Such measures are normally authorized by the freedom and detention judge or the investigating judge. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM and LR groups]] This article resembles above all the correction of an oblivion of the law of 3 June 2016 known as "Urvoas law", the last great law of liberty which enshrines the insertion of exceptional measures in the common law by giving the prosecutor of the Republic powers normally vested in fully independent judges, do not displease you, colleagues! This article merely supplements the list set out in article L. 706-24-2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which already includes surveillance measures, undercover operations and the interception and recording of electronic correspondence. In our joint L'Avenir programme, we committed ourselves to fighting effectively against all threats to France without sacrificing fundamental rights and freedoms. Thus, our "Security Booklet" reminds us that we are committed to abrogating the Urvoas Act. An amendment has been tabled to that effect. We will therefore vote against this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u546	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u547	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to support Amendment No. 270, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u548	I would like to follow up on the argument put forward by my colleague. In this case, Mr rapporteur, there is some consistency in proposing the deletion of this Article in the same way as that of Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. We believe that our criminal code, as it stands, contains sufficient provisions. Judges, as they are, if they are well organized, can destroy our opponents. We must bear in mind this excellent sentence from our President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u549	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u550	Unfavorable opinion. We had this debate in committee. This is an amendment tabled by the Government, which is in fact the result of a request from the judiciary. Geolocation measures suffered from a problem of continuity between the preliminary investigation procedure and the judicial information which could lead to the nullity of the geolocation measure taken in the context of the preliminary investigation after the appointment of an investigating judge. In order to continue the implementation of the measure and to avoid its nullity, the judicial services have requested the addition of this article to the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u551	Two speakers are inscribed on the sub-item. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u552	This article, we will vote for it – once it is not customary! Adopted in committee, it improves the protection of repentants. We believe that it is in the right direction. It makes it clear that it is the human dimension, and especially the judicialization, rather than a technical or repressive flight, that is likely to provide an effective response to the commission of terrorist acts. The issue of the return of individuals embezzled into terrorist groups is crucial and will increasingly be so. This article, which is the result of an amendment tabled by the Government, is useful because it will promote both the collection of information – note the usefulness and importance of human intelligence in the fight against terrorism – but also, where appropriate, the deradicalization and prevention of further drifts. We are therefore objective: if an article goes in the right direction, we accept it. That is the case with this article, which we will vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u553	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u554	In view of the fact that we have a new President of the Republic and a new government, which is trying to clarify a number of very large and painful subjects in our country, would it not be good for the President of the Republic to take stock of our relationship with the Middle East and the Middle East? What exactly are we doing with Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar? Do we still sell them weapons or not? Are they well-known friends of our country? What are their relationships with Daesh? Has Daesh retreated or not since his fighters were gradually driven out of Syria, Iraq and Libya?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u555	All this is fully related to the article!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u556	Furthermore, do the texts we are voting here prevent individuals from committing the tragic acts we have experienced? Even if we are making more and more stringent arrangements, I am not sure. Had I obtained 21% more votes in the first round of the presidential elections, as well as the €20 million that would have helped me, I would immediately have put in place the fourth weapon to combat cybercrime. Those who remain in the Middle East want to continue to fight us. Do we have the means to reach the roots of evil? French people, children of our own, dream of only one thing, destroy us, for they have not learned, or we have not taught them, to love us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u557	The rapporteur, Mr Raphaël Gauvain, has the floor to support Amendment No. 295.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u558	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u559	The rapporteur, Mr Raphaël Gauvain, has the floor to support Amendment No. 297.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u560	It is an amendment of precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u561	The rapporteur, Mr Raphaël Gauvain, has the floor to support Amendment No 296.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u562	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u563	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u564	I will not go back to the debates that we had all afternoon, in particular the mention of the hypocrisy of this text, which is to include in the ordinary law a state of emergency. If we are concerned about this article, it is because of the broad and subject to interpretation that it contains, in particular that of an offence that harms the fundamental interests of the nation. If this refers to collusion with external interests, we obviously agree with it. We will never accept it. On the other hand, a broader interpretation of this concept by more sectarian governments than the current one can predict a logic of political police in social or ideological terms if certain ideas in circulation come to be regarded as contrary to the interests of the nation. Clearly, this is a potential drift. It seems to us that this term is not sufficiently characterized. I repeat, moreover, that situations that are not identical cannot be compared. This exceptional bill, which does not say its name, poses problems in terms of individual freedom. The "serious reasons" for assessing the relationships and behaviour of individuals are at the discretion of the executive and encompass many situations distinct from radical Islamism. And even if the fight against it has liberticide drifts, it is even less understandable to resort to the exception to deal with cases requiring dialogue more than repression. This is the case in certain social or political situations, for example in the Basque country and Corsica, where we are in complete disarray with previous statements, considering that these are the same levels of harm to public order, aggression or violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u565	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u566	In democracy, one does not choose, one acts according to proportion, justice and fairness, not shortcut and blindness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u567	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 436 to delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u568	In accordance with what I have just said, it is a matter of removing the concept of an offence that affects the fundamental interests of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u569	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u570	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u571	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u572	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u573	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u574	Madam President, I would like to return to what our excellent colleague, Mr Acquaviva, has just said, and also to what a colleague from the Communist Group has said this afternoon. We see that peace has returned to Corsica, and we look forward to it. She is also establishing herself in the Basque Country, and God knows if I am happy about it. There has indeed been a very important political work that has been done. The policy has now returned to the forefront in Corsica too, as we can see here with the presence of three equally remarkable Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u575	[[Smile]] Cirage!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u576	When we talk to people, they are much more interested than we think in everything we do, and we must remove any sense of amalgam from them. However, this feeling remains. The fact, for example, of giving the prefect a prerogative...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u577	Especially in Corsica!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u578	... once only assigned to the judge, to carry out checks – nice or not, etc. – does not go in the right direction. France must become a bird of peace by restoring peace in its territory and also by exporting it to the world. That is why I say that the time has come for our Government to make a great explanation of what has happened over the last twenty years, particularly with regard to our attitude in the Near and Middle East.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u579	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor to support Amendment No. 298.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u580	It's accurate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u581	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 153 and 194. Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u582	The aim is to enable the judicial police officer to deal with the facts or subject matter of the offence "in the event of the discovery of an offence derogating from the offences referred to in the decision of the judge of liberty and detention or the investigating judge". This amendment is intended to facilitate the life and work of our judicial police officers, because when a night visit is organised and they find a crime or other offence, they are obliged to wait until the next morning to be able to deal with it. This is particularly expected by security professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u583	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 194.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u584	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] This amendment was drafted by our colleague Guy Teissier. He joins what has just been explained because it is a bit paradoxical that a policeman presents himself during a night search, discovers in the house a totally illegal object – for example, a large quantity of dangerous substances likely to harm the population – and that he cannot grasp it if it happens between twenty and one and six hours in the morning if the object is derogatory for the reason of the search: he is then obliged to place policemen around the house to ensure that he is guarded and to wait until six o'clock in the morning to carry out this seizure. This is really a simplification amendment for our entire police force. I think he's very expected. I therefore ask you, the rapporteur, Madam Minister, to give an opinion in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u585	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u586	Unfavorable opinion. In the case just mentioned by our two colleagues, in my view, an incidental procedure is opened, i.e. the OPJ which has made the discovery will open another procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u587	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u588	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In any event, having been unable to make a better assessment of the matter, even in the context of the work in committee, I propose that you refer it to the reform of the criminal procedure. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u589	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u590	I think the rapporteur's opinion is wise. In fact, the judicial police officer may, including when carrying out a night search, seize new facts in the event of a discovery of an offence other than that referred to in the search authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u591	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u592	The opinion is therefore unfavorable, but you, Member of the Commission, will be able to address the matter again in the context of the review of the criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u593	Thank you for your permission!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u594	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u595	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, I do not even understand that we can still discuss this excellent amendment by Mr Guy Teissier, co-signed by Mr Lurton, who has just defended it. Let the French understand well: a policeman makes a night search, he then finds, for example, illegal substances – cannabis or what I know – but he is obliged to wait until six o'clock in the morning and to mobilize police officers to keep the item(s).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u596	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u597	Of course I do! With our amendment, it could proceed with the seizure. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, it is a common sense amendment that helps simplify the work of police officers. I thought you wanted to do politics differently, be modern, be more effective. It's still what we were sold and oversold. You have the opportunity, Madam Minister, but you too, the rapporteur and my fellow Members of the majority, to do something for our police officers that is transcurrent, non-partisan. Take her. That is common sense. I do not even understand that there is discussion, since this amendment is intended to simplify the rules for night searches, specifically the future rules for night house visits, by giving the judicial police officer the opportunity to seize the subject matter directly. What's the problem? Why again bother our police officers, already overloaded and exhausted? It would be a sign of confidence in them and of simplification. The French looking at us must think that we are walking on our heads.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u598	[[Smile]] "We're walking" or "On the March"?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u599	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ah, congratulations, my dear colleague! They have to think that we are walking on our heads and making life more difficult when this amendment solves the problem. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, even though I am a member of the Republican family, that you think that our right really deserves to be simplified in this area and that we would grow up to vote together on these two amendments of common sense, one defended by the representative of another group, to simplify the lives of the police.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u600	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u601	Mr rapporteur, if the possibility of extending this referral already exists in law, it does not cost anything to reaffirm it by a vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u602	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] We shall proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, your group has already spoken brilliantly in the voice of Mrs Boyer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u603	Moving towards simplification!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u604	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u605	Madam President, Rule 89(3) of the Rules of Procedure states that "the President shall assess the admissibility of the amendments tabled on the Bureau of the Assembly. However, our group, La France insoumée, had tabled within the time limits provided for an amendment, No. 288, introducing an additional article after Article 4d. It has not been the subject of an express decision of inadmissibility on the part of the President of the National Assembly, and we have no longer heard of it. My colleague Danièle Obono wrote an e-mail Monday evening expressly asking the President of the National Assembly to rule on the admissibility of our amendment. He still hasn't answered at this point. Our application must therefore be considered as filed and to be discussed. If you do not understand our argument exactly, we will ask for a suspension of the sitting to clarify this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u606	Mr Bernalicis, I have understood you perfectly, especially since, as Commissioner for Finance and Vice-President, I have been trained and made aware of this type of problem which may arise during the sitting. I will only point out that the President of the Assembly has delegated the power of decision on the financial admissibility of the amendments to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, and that the latter's decisions on the matter are therefore binding on all. As this amendment has been declared inadmissible, it cannot be distributed or discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u607	I confirm my request for suspension, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u608	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u609	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u610	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u611	Madam President, to the extent that the decision has been taken to maintain the inadmissibility of the amendment in question, I would like to obtain a written explanation in this regard, as provided for in Rule 89(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I find it a pity that we cannot defend our amendment on receipt in the event of identity checks, since that is what this is all about. This is becoming a political problem for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u612	Mr Bernalicis, we will convey your request to Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Finance Committee, who took this decision on the delegation of the President of the National Assembly. We will tell him your request for a written response from him and then come back to you to give you a precise answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u613	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u614	We now come to the amendments on the additional article after Article 4d. I have before me two amendments, Nos 220 and 36, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Robin Reda has the floor to support Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u615	The two amendments, Nos 220 and 36, which I shall present jointly, are intended to strengthen the severity of the criminalization of participation in terrorist groups of criminals. This is obviously a central element of the arsenal we are building to combat terrorism, which aims, in order to anticipate and avoid the commission of terrorist acts, to suppress the mere criminal project. Amendment No 220 seeks to increase the penalty of imprisonment from 10 to 15 years, thus creating a new floor in the criminal classification and thus in the penalties incurred. Amendment No 36 is a coherent amendment, following the creation of this category. It allows the jurisdiction of the correctional court to be retained so that it does not clog assize courts, in particular the court that has jurisdiction over these cases, which is known to be at high risk in the years to come. These two amendments therefore seem to us to be of common sense with a view to strengthening the severity in the fight against criminal associations in the field of terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u616	You have the floor to support Amendment No 36, Mr Reda.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u617	I have just defended it: it is precisely a matter of giving the correctional court the opportunity to impose a term of imprisonment of fifteen years or more, so to avoid this type of case falling exclusively within the jurisdiction of the assize court. In short, it is an amendment to coordinate with the previous one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u618	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u619	It is unfavorable, since creating this new offence and increasing the penalties to 15 years' imprisonment would result in a total change in the scale of penalties. I would remind you that in correctional matters only sentences of imprisonment of up to 10 years may be imposed; Beyond that, these are criminal penalties. It is also a debate that we will certainly have in the context of the reform of the criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u620	Ah! Again?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u621	During our hearings, the public prosecutor of the Republic of Paris pointed out that if the correctional courts suffered from their congestion, new courts of assize were created. He also pointed out that in the area of terrorism, and contrary to what you support, the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office was now systematically prosecuting all those who had gone to theatres of operation after Charlie Hebdo's attack and returned to the national territory, that is to say, the famous returns. They are therefore already under the jurisdiction of the Assize Court. Therefore, the committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u622	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u623	Mr President, in addition to what the rapporteur has just said about the amendment of the scale of penalties, I would point out that the law of 21 July 2016 extending the application of Act No. 55-385 of 3 April 1955 on the state of emergency and measures to strengthen the fight against terrorism has criminalised criminal associations of criminals in connection with a terrorist enterprise, and that the penalties may now be up to 30 years' imprisonment. I therefore believe that your amendments are already satisfactory, and therefore ask you if you will withdraw them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u624	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u625	These two amendments were tabled by the Les Républicains group following discussions with the president of the Paris court of grande instance, Jean-Michel Hayat, already a year ago. These are both appeals amendments, designed to ask the question of the link between criminal matters on the one hand and criminal matters on the other. The president of the TGI in Paris told us that many cases were criminalized, so that the special assize court was called, whereas in reality the same cases could have, if the scale of sentences was changed, remained correctional. They could have remained so while maintaining the certainty of being able to sentence the individuals involved to extremely heavy sentences, in this case the sentences usually imposed in a criminal setting but which would thus become of a correctional nature, i.e., imprisonment for up to 15 years. In short, there is a substantive subject that deserves reflection. These appeal amendments were submitted; We will defend others to make other proposals to you. In particular, they will focus on an idea that we believe is extremely important and that should not be left behind: the creation of an anti-terrorist security court. Both in correctional and criminal matters, it would be composed of professional magistrates who are fully specialized in these matters and would provide a sort of continuum in the handling of counter-terrorism cases, both in correctional and criminal matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u626	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u627	I have before me two amendments, Nos 223 and 173, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Guillaume Larrivé to support Amendment No. 223.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u628	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u629	I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 173.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u630	Ladies and gentlemen, a foreigner guilty of terrorist acts must be punished with a definitive ban on French territory: this would facilitate expulsions and prevent the return of the jihadists who have fought in Syria. I would point out that this amendment is not incompatible with respect for the principle of individualization of the sentence, because the judge will always be able to decide on his scale. However, it is not acceptable for a judge to be able to invoke article 422-4 of the Criminal Code in order not to impose a penalty of prohibition of French territory against an alien convicted of terrorist acts. For today, a judge can decide not to expel a foreigner who has been convicted of terrorist acts. Therefore, if such a mechanism were to continue, you could not, Madam Minister, claim to wage a relentless war against Islamist terrorism. That is why I ask you not to hide behind a hypothetical censorship of the Constitutional Council. It must also be said that the legislator must stop self-censorship. This inaction is guilty when we are supposed to fight terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u631	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u632	They are satisfied: today, in terrorist matters, in the case of a foreigner, a ban on French territory is automatically imposed by the court, unless otherwise decided. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u633	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u634	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u635	I call Mr Becht to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u636	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, this amendment is intended to penalise the dissemination of images of victims of attacks or mass killings without the express consent of these victims or their successors. The penalty would be one year's imprisonment and a fine of 45,000 euros. The aim is to protect families bereaved by an attack on the unauthorized dissemination of images showing the victims. Following the terrorist attack in Bataclan, the photo of the interior of the room had circulated on social media; A year after the Nice bombing, a magazine published images of the truck and the victims. This sensational approach to pain is not acceptable and demonstrates a lack of respect for the victims and their families. It is therefore proposed to sanction the dissemination of these unauthorized images.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u637	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u638	Unfavorable opinion. In my view, the amendment is satisfied by article 225-17 of the Criminal Code, which punishes violations of respect due to the dead and, above all, by article 35 quater of the Press Freedom Act of 1881.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u639	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u640	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u641	I have before me two amendments, Nos 176 and 79, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Bruno Bilde to support Amendment No. 176.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u642	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment proposes the creation of the crime of national indignity, which would make it possible to assimilate the French parties into jihad against enemies of France, not just delinquents. Islamist terrorists of French nationality should be convicted of the crime of national indignity, which would include a penalty of 30 years in prison, 500,000 euros in fine, the permanent deprivation of civil rights and a battery of measures that would make society understand that a terrorist is not a delinquent like another, but an enemy of France and our people. Yes, the French – and, a fortiori, the one who was naturalized – party fighting alongside Daesh or other jihadist groups is unworthy of being a member of the national community. It must therefore be permanently excluded.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u643	Who supports Amendment No 79? Mr. Bilde?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u644	It's forbidden, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u645	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u646	Unfavorable opinion on both.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u647	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u648	There was a debate about national indignity, to which jihadist terrorists could or should be condemned, as was the case with the Liberation of Vichy, after the restoration of a crime and a sentence of national indignity by the order of 26 August 1944.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u649	Don't remember bad memories, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u650	The implementation of this exceptional criminal law – since it was a retroactive punishment for acts carried out for a limited period, between 1940 and 1944 – was entrusted to special courts, given the exceptional historical circumstances. I can only refer you to the report of the Committee on the Laws of your Assembly on National Indignity, which was tabled on 25 March 2015 by Jean-Jacques Urvoas. He felt that such a proposal could not strengthen our legal and legislative arsenal with a view to effectively combating terrorism and that penalties of a very similar nature already existed in criminal law for terrorist crimes and offences, such as the penalty for the prohibition of civil, civil and family rights, which included the right to vote and to stand as a candidate, and led to the prohibition of the exercise of public office, thereby excluding such persons from public life. As noted by Jean-Jacques Urvoas, the creation of such an offence could also fuel the jihadist " martyrology", making these terrorists heroes for the cause, which could lead to an increased number of vocations. The Government is therefore opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u651	I have before me two identical amendments, No 299, second rectification and 56 rectification. The rapporteur, Mr Raphaël Gauvain, has the floor to support Amendment No 299, which is the second amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u652	This amendment seeks to introduce a specific criminal offence against parents who encourage their children to commit terrorist acts or to go to a theatre of operations. This proposal comes directly from the hearing of Mr Molins, who alerted us to the difficulties in prosecuting these parents, the basis on which prosecution could be initiated being merely a crime of financing terrorism; It was often useless. He had suggested that we create a specific crime, which would fall under the jurisdiction of the Assize Court, and we had exchanged on the subject in committee. Today we propose that you create this crime. The penalty would be 15 years in prison, which we believe is acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u653	Balanced, more like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u654	Injuries resulting in unintentional death are punished by 15 years of imprisonment. In view of the scale of penalties, this seems satisfactory to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u655	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor to support Amendment No. 56 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u656	These amendments are the product of joint work between the group The Republicans and the rapporteur – he is the only one. They follow the hearing of Prosecutor Molins. What do we want to do? There is a factual situation: a father or mother incites a minor child to commit an attack on national soil or in a theatre of external operations. Today, it is quite difficult to legally grasp such a situation. If this is an offence of criminal association, he shall be punished by ten years' imprisonment; But if it is the endangerment of a minor, the prison sentence is two or three years. What we want is to criminalize this behavior. We therefore expect that he will now be punished with criminal imprisonment and that the Special Assize Court will be seized. In this way, we want to express very strongly the nation's reprobation of these behaviours, which are, alas, not anecdotal. Tens of French miners are now sent to the Irako-Syrian theatre. We have a duty to deal with this situation and to criminalize the behaviour of these parents – by also providing, of course, that parental authority will be removed from them, if the court so judges.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u657	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u658	The opinion is in favour. I congratulate the Law Committee on the drafting of these amendments: the purpose is well-defined, the decision seems timely and concerns this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u659	Ah, a good point! You see, we're constructive!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u660	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u661	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u662	Closing mosques that are radicalizing machines is an absolute necessity, but it is not enough, because our enemies are not places, but people. It is these people who, through their Islamic proselytism, want to bring our nation to its knees. It is therefore up to them to be intractable. The amendment I am proposing is a common-sense amendment. We're under attack, so we have to fight back. Zero tolerance shall be applied. All those who speak for the commission of terrorist acts or who apologies for such acts have no place in our society. The deprivation of French nationality for binationals must no longer be a taboo. French nationality is not a due, it is a privilege, an honour that must be earned. The extension to the borders of those who are not French and who attack us should reach consensus. Again, this is a measure of common sense. It must be said: some refuse our values, some even use them to attack us. On a battlefield, they are not ideas that confront each other, they are men, with weapons. That's the reality. If we do not want this on our territory, we must put out of order to harm those who attack and threaten us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u663	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u664	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u665	Disadvantaged: the amendment is satisfied by Article 421-2-5 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u666	No, it's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u667	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u668	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u669	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u670	Madam Chair, Minister, Mr.Rapporteur, just as we are currently considering the bill, the Urvoas Act introduced mechanisms directly inspired by the state of emergency into the common law. These two texts actually share the same philosophy, which sacrifices our freedoms to an alleged strengthening of our security. The Urvoas Act has simplified the scope of criminal surveillance techniques with the widespread use of wiretapping and reduced control of the investigating judge. It also made possible house arrest by administrative decision, searches of unsubstantiated baggage and four-hour administrative detentions at the police station for a simple identity check. As a reminder, in a joint and unpublished statement, all European bar associations have expressly refused the measures proposed by the French Government and have affirmed that – I quote – "the representatives of the profession of lawyer, as guarantors of the protection of the rights of citizens, will fight them with all the legal and democratic weapons". The Urvoas Act was the fifth law to combat terrorist acts adopted under the previous legislature. This avalanche of security laws seriously undermines the evaluation and oversight role of the legislator. Indeed, we do not have any evidence to assess the actual effectiveness of the provisions of this law, at a time when we are required to vote on an umpteenth liberticide. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] For all these reasons, we propose, through this amendment, to repeal without further delay the law of 3 June 2016, and not to go further in the infringement of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u671	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u672	Disadvantaged: Judicial investigation measures have a genuine operational interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u673	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u674	Obviously unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u675	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-09-27-E2005.u676	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism. The meeting is adjourned.
