ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the expedited procedure has begun, of the bill, adopted by the Senate, ratifying Order No. 2017-717 of 3 May 2017 establishing the Paris La Défense public institution (No. 113, 382).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u2	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u3	Madam Chair, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Madam Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill to ratify the order establishing the Paris La Défense public institution that we are going to examine was tabled in Parliament on 10 May 2017 by the previous government. This is one of the last acts of Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve's government. This order was made on the basis of article 55 of the Act of 28 February 2017 relating to the status of Paris and metropolitan development, which empowers the Government to take by order "any measure in the field of the law having as its object: 1 ° The creation of a local public institution involving the State, the Hauts-de-Seine department, as well as local authorities and their groups, some of which are mandatory, for the planning, management and promotion of the territory of "Paris La Défense"; 2 ° The definition of the specific powers assigned to the State; 3 ° The definition of the geographical scope of the establishment, in consultation with the municipalities concerned; 4 ° The replacement of this establishment at the Public Management Institution of the Business District of La Défense and the Public Development Institution of La Défense Seine Arche. » While legal difficulties had arisen for several decades, the previous government initiated, following a long evolution, a process of meeting the public planning establishment of La Défense Seine Arche – the EPADESA – and the public management establishment of La Défense, called Defacto, in order to strengthen its economic model and to better involve communities in its governance. Given the status of the case when we arrived in charge of the executive, and because the Senate had already been seized of it, we have continued this work very largely set in motion, the purpose of which is to enable the neighbourhood, the first European business district, to consolidate itself and to deal with its development and outreach issues. Experience has shown that the current separation between an establishment in charge of its management and an establishment in charge of its development has led to a number of malfunctions or even a lack of efficiency. The order filed on the board of assemblies on 4 May 2018 therefore provided for the establishment, on 1 January 2018, of a local public establishment replacing the two above-mentioned establishments. The decentralization of this institution places full responsibility for the development of La Défense on local and regional authorities. The department of Hauts-de-Seine, which will be the majority, as well as the communes of Courbevoie, Nanterre, Paris and Puteaux, the Île-de-France region and the Greater Paris metropolis, will be represented on its board of directors. Through the regional prefect, the State will remain present in the establishment with the aim of ensuring coordination between the State and the institution's activities. I would also point out that there are two operations in the sector of national interest – ION. One of the amendments that we will have to consider is to restore the prefect's role in ensuring the proper functioning of public services. I will support this amendment, which restores the original text of the order, because the Government considers that the prefect must be the guarantor of the coherence between the projects carried out by the establishment and the operations necessary for the proper functioning of the public services, in particular those provided by RATP, SNCF network, SNCF or Société du Grand Paris – the SGP – in the field of transport. The Order provides for the transfer of the rights, property, obligations and personnel of EPADESA and Defacto, free of charge, to the new establishment. It should be noted that this issue has evolved after the Senate review, as there are no exceptions to this transfer, which I think will allow the institution to fully carry out its duties. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have to debate the issue of the scope of the new institution. This is a delicate point, because it is a matter of ensuring continuity between the past situation, with two institutions having different missions on different perimeters, and the future situation of an institution that can carry out all missions but has to do so in a differentiated way according to the sectors of intervention. The text of the order provided for an evolutionary system, with contours that could be modified by order-in-council, which allowed for a fine description of the perimeter where the establishment could conduct development operations. The review in the Senate last July has, to some extent, improved consultation with communities, which is essential for the institution's work to be well understood. If points still need to be improved, in particular by granting more freedom to set boundaries, it seems to me that the general balance of the text resulting from the examination in the Senate must be maintained. This balance was, in fact, difficult to put in place and took many months, if not many years, of discussion between the state and the communities. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] These are the essential provisions of this text which I have had the honour to present before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u5	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u6	Madam President, Minister, Madam Chair of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, 180,000 employees, 3,600 companies, 45,000 students, 40,000 inhabitants: Defence is Europe's first business district. Deciding on its future, governance and funding has never been easy. That is why I thank the Government for introducing this ratification bill, which will enable the Territory to enter a new phase of development, more harmonious and concerned with its users and inhabitants. While Defence has many assets, which we all know, including its ability to attract both large international companies and smaller but often very dynamic companies, which constitute an economic grid and make it an employment pool of 1.6 million people, it also suffers from fragility. These are mainly the legacy of a long-standing lack of cooperation between local actors and the state, as you pointed out, Minister. For decades now, the lack of willingness to work on a real common project has affected the maintenance of this neighbourhood. In such a situation, however, no one wins: companies regret the outdated facilities, the inhabitants do not feel sufficiently taken into account and the elected officials fear the safety of certain infrastructures. In this context, the legislator should propose a more appropriate framework for action and development. That is the very purpose of the bill before us. However, I would like to point out that the legislator cannot replace the communities and the state which ultimately remain responsible for the definition and conduct of a future project for this territory. Our majority wants, first of all, a clear leader, in this case the Hauts-de-Seine department. Some dispute this choice. I can hear it, but we have had a lengthy hearing with stakeholders on this subject, and none of them has provided us with a convincing alternative solution. Moreover, the department has a particular legitimacy: committed to the financing of the public institution managing the slab, called Defacto, with the municipalities of Puteaux and Courbevoie, it has demonstrated its involvement in favour of this territory and its desire to fully integrate into its development. We take note of this in this bill: it is justified in the current context, and it is proof of our pragmatism. Secondly, we would like, and I would insist on this point, which I believe is fundamental, to see compulsory financing of investments which should have been financed for many years. It is at least EUR 360 million that will have to be programmed in the next ten years. This is a minimum, as expectations are high and commitments made must be respected. Indeed, a share of this amount will already be provided by the performance of the site management and its development. So we want communities to be truly committed to the financial side and to show real ambition for this site. Thirdly, we want the State to remain vigilant with regard to a balance that respects each municipality and neighbourhood in this project. If governance is decentralized, which I welcome, territorial cooperation and the necessary trust between local actors remain to be built. The prefect will have to help to ensure that the general interest and respect for the identity of everyone in this great project prevail. To respond to the fear expressed by an elected one, there is nothing to fear from this reform; There is, on the other hand, everything to be built, and we will be vigilant to ensure that this process is respectful of each other. In keeping with these directions, we sought to clarify certain aspects of the Order, Minister, including the issue of the management and development scope of the future facility. The latter will thus be able to intervene alone in the historical district of La Défense, because it is a very integrated territory; In my view, this is a step forward for the future establishment. On the Seine Arche sector, he will be able to be a designer, as the EPADESA today, without exclusivity. In doing so, we respected the original balance of the order and the overall meaning of the requests made by stakeholders at the September hearings. In addition, we have extended the competence of the managing institution in the area of personal safety, allowing the use of video protection, and we will propose an amendment to entrust the establishment, with the agreement of the municipalities, with competences in the area of traffic and the cleanliness of the roads. These provisions respond to requests from the affected communities and will promote the proper management of the site. On the other hand, we removed two provisions introduced in the Senate, which seemed to call into question the general balance of the order. We have thus restored the possibility for the Prefect to request further deliberation from the board of directors of the institution if he considers that one of his decisions undermines the proper functioning of the public services. The particular nature of the district of La Défense and the national challenges in terms of economic development linked to its development justify the possibility of extensive control of the prefect. The latter will be able to exercise discernment, so that this faculty will probably remain unimplemented – at least I wish it. We have also removed the possibility for the establishment to resort to the creation of subsidiaries that are not linked to its task as an operator. It seems to us that the tasks entrusted to the institution are clear and that it must stick to them. In the coming years, the manager's priority will be to make the necessary investments on the historic site of La Défense, which we know is already a major challenge. I will refer to the staff of the two merged public institutions. During our hearings, some of their representatives questioned their future and the conditions for preparing for the reform. We considered it necessary to create a single public institution as early as January 1, 2018, as it is urgent to renovate and secure the La Défense neighbourhood, and to make it a place of living and sharing open on the surrounding territories. However, the staff involved will have to be involved. Often highly qualified, they are the memory of this site, its technical peculiarities and its potentials. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, to ensure that your services pay particular attention to accompanying the merger of the two public institutions so that the resulting one will work as soon as possible under the best possible conditions. [[Smile]] I would like to conclude by thanking our colleagues from all the groups who followed the bill with great attention. Even if we are not very numerous in the Chamber this afternoon, I would like to inform those who follow our discussion from the outside that the main players in the debate are there! [[Applause on the benches of the REM and LR groups]] We have managed to forge consensus, which is essential, even though we differ on some points. In any event, we have worked objectively to improve the text. We have tried to understand and restore as closely as possible the great challenges facing this territory. Tomorrow we will have a duty to be vigilant about the proper implementation of the reform and the fulfilment of the expectations of the elected representatives and the citizens concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u7	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u8	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the order which the Government is asking us to ratify today creates the Paris La Défense public institution on 1 January 2018. It must bring together the two public institutions currently responsible for the management and development of the business district. We have two main problems with this order. The first was the general philosophy behind the very existence and implantation of this district. The question of France's interest in the very existence of a neighbourhood such as La Défense deserves to be asked, given the documentation annexed to the bill as well as the debates that have taken place in the Senate. Defence is a business district with large multinationals working in multiple industries. Such synergy poses a problem, as it promotes the mixing of genders. Those who had the opportunity to get there were able to see that this neighborhood is literally above ground: it is indeed raised, because centered on a parvis. In February 2016, the Trinity Tower project, scheduled to be delivered in 2020, blocked access for residents of Courbevoie. The direct access that residents of neighbouring municipalities can access is complex and sometimes boils down to temporary or dangerous stairs. The Defense is indeed an off-ground area, whose disconnection with neighbouring housing areas is voluntary. It is, in our view, the symbol of this finance which should be de-nancized and put at the service of the economy, and which the majority has chosen, on the contrary, to favour. It is not a district of excellence and innovation – which would be good for the country – it is a project to concentrate businessism between banks and large companies at CAC 40. I want to point out that the big challenge of the coming years, according to the impact study, will be to welcome financiers and traders leaving the City of London because of Brexit, as Mr Mathieu Darnaud, rapporteur of the text in the Senate, admits unmistakably. The order that you are asking us to ratify, Minister, is intended to attract as much as possible financiers who plan to leave the City in order to continue their work in continental Europe. In this regard, Mr. Darnaud's public remarks explaining why La Défense must prepare to welcome them are very revealing: "Brexit is an opportunity for our economy and would be a historic opportunity for La Défense," he said after stating that "these entities will need very large volumes of offices, in a service-friendly environment, served by the necessary infrastructure and will find a familiar ecosystem, close to their interlocutors." A few hours before a debate on a motion for a resolution to promote the symbols of the European Union, it does not seem to us that Brexit can in any way be regarded as a chance for anyone. We believe, on the contrary, that it is an expression of a major fracture in Europe and of the problems posed by its current construction, which is a source of fundamental opposition among us. We should therefore not deal with this issue in the manner of the financial raptors, by competing with the European capitals to recover the financial cake, thus continuing the construction of a Europe of finance to the detriment of the peoples. Moreover, at the time of the publication of the Paradise papers, it seems to us to be at least incongruous that a majority – at least in words – of acting against financial activities relating to optimisation and tax evasion is seeking to be a pole of attraction for the financial operations denounced by journalists, especially those of the show Cash Investigation, even though, from Panama Papers to LuxLeaks, we have known for several years where and how these financial networks help to take money from the state and to exempt it from tax. If a project of financial attractiveness had to be implemented, France would honour itself to be at the forefront of the fight against tax evasion and to promote, not the financial transactions we know, but another financial policy that would regulate trade and would constitute a model for combating tax evasion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u9	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u10	Unfortunately, that is not your policy, nor what the bill we are looking at today is about.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u12	Certain international associations conducting campaigns against tax optimisation should be encouraged. We would like to welcome Attac – an association for the taxation of financial transactions and citizen action – for several weeks, calling into question the multinational Apple, which does not pay its taxes as it should. In our view, the real economy must be defunct and finance must be put at the service of the general interest. To that end, we have put forward proposals that should be debated in the National Assembly, as they would make it possible to implement a genuine State financial strategy. Finance destroyed the economy in 2008. If it is to be the "adversary" of the outgoing president, it has never been so successful: our country holds the European record for paying dividends! New bubbles are forming, carrying in them the threat of a new deflagration even more terrible than the previous one. Our programme includes several measures such as the separation of business and retail banks; control of capital movements; the introduction of a real tax on financial transactions; the prohibition of over-the-counter sales and securitisation; capping of leverage effects and exorbitant shareholder returns; the identification and prohibition of toxic and unnecessary derivatives to finance or cover real economic flows; the initiation of proceedings for the recovery of the EUR 2.2 billion of public money granted without proof to the Société générale in the context of the judicial settlement of the Kerviel case, as well as the evaluation of comparable acts and the prosecution of those responsible for such abuses. So, in terms of financial management, there are many other measures than those aimed at attracting troublemakers even more! It is also important to place finance at the service of the real economy. It seems to us, and many findings confirm it, that its current march strangles SMEs and households every day instead of serving the real economy. Shareholders demand untenable rates of return, if not to the detriment of social rights and the production apparatus, and impose the tyranny of short time over long time. We must therefore regain power. On this point, we have also made proposals, such as the removal of the continuous listing of companies on the stock exchange; modulation of the voting rights of shareholders according to their duration of engagement in the undertaking, subject to a term of presence; modulation of corporate tax according to the use they make of their profits in order to encourage investment in France, applying a reduced rate to reinvested profits in France and a full rate to those distributed to shareholders; the increase in the legal reserve requirement for the company to retain part of its profit and prevent it from distributing it entirely in the form of dividends in excess of 5% of the amount of profits; the prohibition of distribution of dividends in excess of the company's profit, and therefore of borrowing for that purpose. Thus, in terms of attractiveness strategy, there are many other measures than those aimed at promoting tax optimisation and competition in European capitals. I repeat, our country could be at the forefront of the international struggle against practices that harm peoples and the real economy. Unfortunately, this is not the way in which the current majority – in keeping with the previous one – has chosen to engage. In itself, La Défense is part of a single project: serving the interests of large groups and powerful people. This is the main problem that explains our opposition to the bill. The second is the fact that the latter, supplemented by the additions voted in the Senate, dismantles the state's ability to intervene. You plan, Minister, to entrust the entire responsibility for the development of the business district to the local authorities, in particular the department of Hauts-de-Seine, which will be the majority on the board of directors of the established public institution. The presence of the State will be limited to the regional prefect. In the name of a liberal ideology of competing territories that seems destructive to us, you thus deny the strategic role of the state in spatial planning. In fact, the Senate has passed many amendments based on the same logic, which run counter to the interests of the state and thus the national community. Article 2, for example, is intended exclusively to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities involved in development projects. The order provides, in fact, that the public institution you are planning to create will have jurisdiction over the geographical perimeter of La Défense extended to the communes of La Garenne-Colombes and Nanterre. This logic of placing territories in competition, which leads you to entrust the only department of Hauts-de-Seine with the future of France's first business district, deprives the State of the central place it must occupy. The latter must be the guarantor of the general interest, which is superior to the local interest of a single department, and must, as such, fully assume its role as operator of the territory. The State must recover its human and financial resources in order to play its role as a strategist. I will also refer to clause 5 of the original bill, which we called for repeal in the committee of laws and which we welcome being deleted. However, it is indicative of the general principle underlying the text. It was intended to eliminate the possibility for the State representative on the board of directors of the public institution to veto in the event of an attack on national interests – in particular on the State's property interests – or on the proper functioning of public services. The sole purpose of this article, voted by the Senate, was to dispossess the State's role in spatial planning and the role of arbitrator as a last resort if major national interests are at stake. It was therefore not only a question of denying, but of erasing the role of the State as a guarantor of equality between the territories and of the general interest. As for Article 7, it provides for the transfer to full ownership of parking lots belonging to the heritage of the EPADESA. It therefore makes a free transfer of parking lots from the State to the department of Hauts-de-Seine, which is the majority in the new board of directors. What is the justification for such a gift to this department? On this point, we join the Government. It appears from the discussions in the Senate that the Senate considers that there are no grounds of general interest justifying a free transfer of parking spaces. We hope that the Government will be able to show the same concern for public money and the general interest, by refusing to develop as it currently sees it this district of finance and businessism. We are not alone in questioning the general undertaking proposed by this order. An article from the World, published on November 14, entitled "Defence: the Court of Auditors castigates the withdrawal of the State", evokes an interim report that has not been made public. According to the newspaper, the financial magistrates denounce the "very questionable conditions" of the transfer of the governance of this state institution to the department of Hauts-de-Seine. They refer to unethical accounts and add that the future establishment would be "legally fragile". In this interim report, the Court of Auditors considers that the State disposes of high-value goods without any consideration. In a time when everyone is being asked to make great efforts to reduce deficits, this circumstance has called upon us. The order acknowledges that the Defense would pay the sum of 150 million euros to the State if it managed to dispose of its property to private companies. This value, as the Court of Auditors notes, is far removed from the real value of the assets to be disposed of. In a communiqué of 15 November, we asked the President of the National Assembly to waive, under these conditions, the inclusion of this text on the agenda and to have access to the entire report, in its provisional or final form. At the very least, it seems problematic to us that while a body as important as the Court of Auditors is launching the alert, national representation does not have all the elements to take its decision, in line with the general interest. We are therefore opposed to the creation of a territorial pole such as Paris La Défense, whose very existence would prove that the financial sector and the multinationals avoiding taxes are at the heart of the national economic project. We criticize the general logic of building this neighbourhood and the logic of state intervention on financial matters. We also denounce the logic of breaking national cohesion, which would see some territorial authorities take over the competence of the State as a strategist and responsible for spatial planning in the general interest. It is finally consistent that we should review this order just after the debate on the finance law. After your majority has endorsed Bercy's lock, refused to condemn companies that are linked to the financing of terrorist acts, challenged the labour code, protecting employees, it gives land to large companies to attract them and promote finance. The majority wants the state to give free land to foreign companies, which will not give a cent of tax in return! In addition, already wealthy municipalities will have control over the public establishment. As an article from Parisien explained yesterday, "in order to obtain the right to vote at the board of directors of Paris La Défense, so to take part in the decisions, the communities will have to go to the caisse. ''Who pays decides'', according to the chairman of the departmental council, Patrick Devedjian (LR), who demanded a majority of seats (9 out of 17). The mayor of Nanterre, Patrick Jarry (Citizen Left), will have him only one vote, while the future establishment will preside over the destinies of a third of its territory. » By this order, you allow the territories to compete and increase inequalities between them. Thus, by losing its power as a strategist, the state loses its power to erase inequalities, to correct them, to nuance them. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, the La France insoumée group calls for the prior rejection of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u13	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u14	This motion was tabled under Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but I did not properly understand why the proposed text would be contrary to one or more constitutional provisions or why there would be no need to deliberate. That being said, I understand the positioning of the FI group on an off-ground area, symbol of finance and concentration of business, although I do not know any capital in the world that lacks a business district. I also understand that you do not want to abolish joint stock companies, but to reduce dividends and give more power to shareholders. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] I can also understand that you mentioned the risk of dismantling the responsibility of the State. Since I was in charge of this case, whose legislative translation was launched on 10 May, I have always ensured that we achieve a balance. I believe that, given the stakes, the state must play its full role. The Government has never wanted the State to disappear in the follow-up to a case of national interest. I ask the House to reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u15	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Guillaume Larrivé, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u16	The Group of the Republicans will not vote on the previous rejection motion put forward by La France insoumée. Listening to Mrs Obono's question about the very existence of La Défense, I thought for a moment that she was going to offer us the destruction of this business district – which would have been very unreasonable! With Constance Le Grip, we believe it is important that the francilian metropolis has this big business district, for the Île-de-France but also for the entire nation. We need it! This order, which reorganizes La Défense's governance, is useful. Local and regional authorities are handed over, in liaison with the representatives of the State. Since this text is useful, we have no reason to approve a rejection motion whose fundamental powers are deeply hostile to the market economy. I believe, Mrs. Obono, that you would not do our nation a favour if your motion, by extraordinary means, were to be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u18	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u19	Of course, we will not associate ourselves with the proposal put forward by France, for the reasons set out by the Minister and Mr Larrivé. This is an abuse of procedure. Ms. Obono made a number of observations and criticisms. It is well-founded to do so before this House, but rule 91(5) provides that the purpose of the motion is to have the proposed text recognized as being contrary to one or more constitutional provisions, or that there is no need to deliberate. However, Mrs Obono's very detailed and abundant comments clearly show that there was, in her mind, a matter for debate. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very simple way of expressing disagreement with this text: to vote against it. Don't overwhelm the House with rejection motions that have no place in it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u20	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u21	I do not share our colleague's analysis, even if I respect his consistency. The debate that she wanted to hold is a substantive debate, which is contradictory to a rejection motion. So let's get to the bottom, let's move this debate forward. At Brexit time, we need to move forward and attract investment for our economy and jobs. The Constructive Group will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u23	The next speaker is Mr Pacôme Rupin, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u24	Mrs Obono, during the debates in committee, you invited me to read your programme. I have done so and I must say that I have found in your defence of the motion the great consistency of your program. But I must add that I strongly disagree with this consistency: you will explain that our country would be better off if there was no competition, no competitiveness, and if, in a way, this business district did not exist. As Europe's first business district, La Défense is yet a driving force for our economy! [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] You talked about raptors. I do not think there are raptors in La Défense, but companies that act within a regulatory and legal framework. Apart from fraudsters, it is companies that respect laws that decide mostly here. That is why the La République en marche group will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u25	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u26	We disagree with the Minister's and our colleagues' analysis. I would point out that the Court of Auditors' report, which is still provisional, criticises what is happening to the new public institution. Parliament does not seem to us to be sufficiently informed. Since clarity and sincerity are principles of constitutional value, we believe that the text is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u27	In the general debate, Mrs Constance Le Grip spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u28	Madam Chair, Minister, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this afternoon's sitting in this Chamber may seem, to some, very limited to local and territorial issues, because of the scope mentioned in the title of the bill – Paris La Défense. Yet, it is not. A quarter marked by history, following the Champs-Élysées, the district of La Défense saw in particular the French troops organize a solid defense of Paris in 1870. It was in memory of this martial episode that the name La Défense was given. Today, it is a completely different European perspective, Brexit, which calls for us to seize new opportunities. In the global competition for attractiveness, France has strong arguments, the weight of which has played to give it most recently the seat of the European Banking Authority. A move which must, however, be confirmed by a forthcoming vote in the European Parliament, but which we have every reason to welcome together today. This transfer will not be the only one. Many companies will also seek to establish themselves on the continent and within the European area. With the Paris La Défense business district, we already have a suitable place to host these activities, in search of available infrastructures and offices. According to a recent study by Ernest &am p; Young, La Défense, a recognized business district, ranks fourth in the world behind the City in London, Midtown in New York and Marunouchi in Tokyo. This very honourable place allows us to look calmly at the future. Defence comprises approximately 2,950 companies, including fourteen of the top 20 national companies and fifteen of the top 50 global companies. It is 180,000 employees who work there every day, 275,000 square meters of shops and offices, with a decrease in the vacancy rate of 7.8% in 2016 compared to 13% in 2013, and a proactive policy of renewing its housing stock to accommodate the most diverse activities. In this global competition, only a favourable ecosystem attracts and conserves investors. Professional talents, multiple courses in higher education, transport infrastructure – many but imperfect – and the presence of housing and Europe's first shopping centre in the vicinity of the business district are all significant assets. But these elements remain incomplete without the assurance for investors that the public authorities, as their interlocutors, will live up to their expectations. As I had expressed during the committee's examination of the laws of our assembly, this order creating a single public institution, Paris La Défense, is welcome. The diagnosis, formulated long ago by the relevant actors and local authorities, is simple: the business district management and development model of La Défense, based on two separate institutions, does not address the development and outreach issues facing the neighbourhood. The meeting of the two public institutions in one, Paris La Défense, is therefore essential. It responds to a need to simplify governance and to the need to create conditions for sustainable financing that can attract investors and support investments in the development, renovation and modernisation of the neighbourhood. The stakes are considerable. The position of the Republican Group in this respect is quite clear, although we have some slight differences. I'll come back. The decentralization of this new public institution now places full responsibility for the development of La Défense on local and regional authorities. This is a step in the right direction. In addition to the departmental council of Hauts-de-Seine, which is dedicated to leadership, the communes of Courbevoie, Nanterre, Puteaux and Paris, as well as the Île-de-France region and the Greater Paris metropolis will be fully present on the board of directors, while, through the regional prefect, the state will remain present within the institution. Pilotage transferred, or rather returned, to communities is the second fundamental axis in the order. If it were to be recalled, a whole range of infrastructure, at the expense of the State, had not been maintained as it would have taken in recent years. The needs are enormous. To take just one example, the fourteen tunnels under the site are extremely old and dangerous. The figures have been recalled, it would take at least €360 million over ten years. That's the magnitude of the needs for this neighborhood. As the state is no longer in a position to deal with it, it will be up to the communities, first and foremost the Conseil départemental des Hauts-de-Seine, to courageously take over these investment efforts. In return, of course, the new public institution will be able to function at best with full respect for the overall coherence of the scheme. Members The Republicans are very committed to the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. We have tabled some amendments in this regard. One will aim at re-establishing Article 3, on the possibility for the public institution to set up subsidiaries. We will have the opportunity to speak again about this provision, voted by a very large majority in the Senate. The interest in setting up subsidiaries became clear to me during the hearings, such as the legal instrument that would allow us to deal with special needs, specific tasks in this area. The discussion of the articles and amendments will allow us, I hope, to return to a version that is more faithful to the original spirit of the text, marked by flexibility, adaptability and pragmatism. This will provide us with the best tools to act effectively. We have tabled another amendment that is intended to go back to the Senate version, with respect to the specific powers assigned to the regional prefect. Again, we hope that the right balance is guaranteed and that the concept of harming the proper functioning of public services is the responsibility of the local public institution Paris La Défense. It should also be recalled that the decisions of the board of directors of this new public institution will undoubtedly be subject to a review of legality by the State, through the regional prefect. In these few points lies the bulk of our differences, which we shall resume on the occasion of the examination of the amendments, without calling into question our very positive assessment of this mechanism. It was necessary to simplify and organise the political leadership, on a very decentralised basis, of this new public institution, of which we expect a great deal. Simplification and decentralization are not just words or pious wishes. These concepts must be translated into concrete terms. We are committed to a neighbourhood that is a major asset, whose outreach goes far beyond the contours of the Hauts-de-Seine department of the Île-de-France region. It is a major asset for the attractiveness and outreach of our beautiful capital region and our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LC groups]] We are here to meet this great challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u29	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u30	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are places to call Paris, Paris, and others to call it the capital of France. It is not up to the Government to blame it, but we remain well in the Parisian exception. We are legislating by order, which we might well do without, because we do not commit to this text, in the first place, contrary to what Mrs Obono thinks, the fundamental regal interests of the State. We are facing a reform project, on the basis of an excellent report presented by Mrs Isabelle Florennes, whose good I do not hesitate to say, even if it belongs to the same department and to the same party as me. The subject is of importance: the first European business district, and the fourth world, as Mrs Le Grip pointed out. No less than 45,000 inhabitants, a pool of jobs of 1.5 million people, 180,000 employees. It is colossal and it was necessary to organize rational management. [[Smile]] But we inherit an absurd situation. Why did you create two bodies that walk on their feet, unable to shoulder the responsibilities that they did not exercise separately? One was called Defacto, and I think the height of absurdity would have been to name the other Dejure! No one was in charge of the interview. Five years ago, the circular boulevard, the fundamental artery, is plunged into the dark, simply because the transformer is out of order and no one wants to take care of its repair. That's absurd! This case reminds me of the story of the madman who says he's banging on his head because it's good when it stops. Similarly, it would be a good idea to put an end to this non-sensical duality, which meant that skills were neglected. In addition, the demands on this area are new. They are the result of Brexit, on the one hand. The unfortunate withdrawal of our British friends from the European Union requires the capital and Île-de-France to upgrade to meet this new challenge. On the other hand, the nature of the establishment has changed dramatically. At first, he was just a business center. It has gradually developed considerably, while becoming an urban centre, accompanied by all the related functions – leisure, housing, transport, cultural activities – which are more or less part of the common law of local and regional authorities. It became necessary to accompany this evolution, by giving local and regional authorities – what the Government does – responsibility for the management of a particular territorial community of a particular type. The pressure was considerable. The choices made are in the right direction. A first question arose in the Senate, with the voice of our excellent colleague André Gattolin. Should we wait – I prefer the term procrastination – for the resolution of this kind of puzzle, of imbroglio, which the Paris region represents before making a decision? Between the territories, the commune, the metropolis, the region, we spend our time playing at the four corners. Well, no, we didn't have to wait, because there was an emergency, as evidenced by the delays in the maintenance of the neighbourhood. It's good to decide now that everything can be put in place in January 2018. We will see what will come out of the great territorial cup of Île-de-France, but the system will stand very well, unless the department is removed – I do not advise you to do so, minister, because it would be much more trouble than benefits. Otherwise, we will find another solution. The second idea, recalled by Mrs Florennes, is to establish a decentralized community – a public institution involving local and regional authorities. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] I am surprised, Mrs Obono, to hear you explain in length that the general interest requires that this project be entrusted to the State and not to the territorial elected representatives. What the hell, La Défense isn't the long island or the Albion plateau! It is not a regal area, it is an area of development of offices, networks, and roads in which economic life is organized with elected field officials. As a public servant, I contest the idea that the role of an official is to protect the inhabitants of the people they elected. Departmental councillors and mayors are elected to carry out a mission; If the citizens are not happy, they change it. That is the republican law, and it must be applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u31	What a contradiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u32	As Ms Florennes said, the existence of a single leader is important. We need one person in charge and one person in charge. Napoleon considered it better to have a bad general than two good ones. In this case, the department is a good general – it has shown it on other occasions. It's good to have one responsible person in front of you. Finally, Mrs Florennes' report also stresses the need for financial resources. These means, which are minimal – I hope they will increase – are guaranteed since, under the order, the territorial authorities participate in the dowry. This will make it possible to get out of the shortage we know. A few points remain under discussion. First of all, I am thinking of the somewhat grotesque episode of car parks – when the unit was achieved on the horizontal plane between the territories, the original bill established a vertical separation, the territorial authorities being competent on the surface and the state in the basement. The state has the wisdom to renounce this claim. However, I would not like him to have the idea of selling the car parks to the communities, because, hell, a decentralization operation is not an OPA. When you decentralize, you don't sell the state's assets to someone else. It's not a lottery. I am sure, Minister of State, that you will agree. Secondly, it is welcome that new competences in the field of safety and traffic are given to the new establishment – we support this extension of competences. Madam President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Obono – whom I love so much as a colleague in the Committee on European Affairs –...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u33	It can be seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] ...thank you for listening to me. The MODEM Group strongly supports the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u35	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u36	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, under a technical appearance, the creation of the Paris La Défense public establishment represents a major challenge for the attractiveness of Paris, the capital region, Île-de-France, and our country. It is an issue for the attractiveness of our financial centre at the international level and of this business district at the service of our economy, our jobs and the daily lives of our fellow citizens. Brexit is a significant drop in the growth forecast for Britain – the one that was a champion in this area has become the slowest economy in the European Union. Brexit is the transfer of the seats of the European Banking Authority and the European Medicines Agency. These are also the announced relocations of many companies in the banking sector. Let's learn the lesson. As one English newspaper, the Financial Times, said a few days ago: "It is a very heavy loss of influence for the City! We will no longer be present at the negotiating table, where future European rules will be decided." We must learn from this fact for our European commitment. But Brexit is also a great opportunity to strengthen France's position as a major financial hub in Europe. Pending the outcome of the negotiations, it is up to us to create the conditions to attract investors to our country and to promote the development of Paris La Défense as a leading business centre. The European Commission's decision to transfer the headquarters of the European Banking Authority to Paris is an excellent news that reinforces France's dynamic on the international stage, and which, I believe, welcomes its European commitment. The reflection on the choice of its final location – within the capital itself or on the La Défense site – remains to be carried out, in consultation with the European Union and the various metropolitan actors. The aim is to find together the most coherent and effective mechanism to create a synergy effect. The development of Paris La Défense is in the general interest. It must not be a partisan subject or a reason for tension between Paris and its metropolitan partners. We must defend our common interests. The creation of 2500 jobs is already announced following the Brexit – with a target of 10,000 jobs in 2019. The bill we are looking at must be part of creating the conditions for the development of our global financial hub. The measures adopted by the Government on 23 November in the context of the bill to ratify the ordinances reforming the Labour Code are also likely to raise reservations about the attractiveness of Paris for the banking sector. The international context is favourable: it is up to us to take pragmatic measures to seize this opportunity at best. The second objective of this bill is to promote urban transformation in the La Défense neighbourhood. It is a necessity to strengthen its international attractiveness as a financial hub, but it is first and foremost an effort to promote the quality of life that we owe to the tens of thousands of Francilians who work there or who live there. Defence must become a laboratory for innovation in architecture, eco-habitat, green spaces and mobility. The minerality and monoactivity that characterize the neighbourhood no longer correspond to expectations for the 21st century city. The challenge is no longer just to develop a business district, but to make it a real place of life. It is currently the weakness of the site: the lack of cultural offer, recreation, restoration, green spaces and breathing. The launch of the redevelopment of the pedestrian slab in the Place de La Défense in 2019 is an ambitious landscaped project to overcome this weakness. The opening of the U Arena also brings a major new offer in event matters. Things are moving. For years to come, thousands of square metres of basements have immense potential to imagine new uses. It is necessary to allow creativity to be liberated to invent modern and different places, whether coworking spaces or places dedicated to night and party. Reborn these neglected wastelands, giving them a spirit and an identity, it will be the role of the future public institution Paris La Défense. The construction of the new La Défense station, entrusted to Wilmotte et associés, which will host the new line 15, will allow to divide by two certain journey times and connect Charles de Gaulle airport in thirty minutes by 2027. This calendar commits us to anticipate the profound transformation of the neighborhood by expanding the missions of the governance structure of Paris La Défense. The attractiveness and modernization of Paris La Défense requires a simplification of governance and an expansion of the scope of intervention of the public institution. This is the purpose of this bill, which brings together the two existing institutions into a single structure. That is the essential, that is the general interest. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly denounced the lack of coordination between the two institutions and the lack of financial support for the rehabilitation of the equipment in the La Défense district. The creation of a single public institution competent for La Défense's planning and management therefore seems to be a step in the right direction as it will allow for unified leadership, better governance and better financing of operations. This is all the more important given the need for complex planning operations over the long term. As such, it is important to establish a budgetary and financial regime adapted to the future public institution in order to enable it to be as flexible and as relevant as possible in the light of its dual management and planning mission. That is the meaning of the amendment that I have tabled with several colleagues in my group. As far as the method is concerned, I think it is important to stress the need for consultation with stakeholders, in particular on the decree to define the scope of action of the Paris La Défense public institution. I would like to question you about the future of the governance of the establishment in the light of the evolution of the structure of the Greater Paris metropolis. We must now take this into account in our reflections. This is a major challenge for our competitiveness and attractiveness. To conclude on an optimistic note, Minister of State, this project for the attractiveness of Paris and the capital region shows that, on an issue of general interest, it is possible to ensure continuity between two governments and to create consensus beyond partisan contingencies – I welcome it. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In the hope that you will take a constructive – very constructive – look at the amendment I have tabled, our group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u37	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u38	Madam Chair, Minister of State, Chairperson of the Law Committee, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today the National Assembly is asked to ratify the Order of 3 May 2017 establishing the Paris La Défense public institution. For the record, the Senate did so by amending it on July 20th. This order was made on the basis of section 55 of the Act of 28 February 2017 relating to the status of Paris and metropolitan development, adopted under the previous legislature. This article empowers the Government to take by order any measure falling within the scope of the law and designed to: establish a local public institution with the task of planning, managing and promoting the territory of Paris La Défense and involving the State and several local authorities, including the Hauts-de-Seine department; define the specific powers assigned to the State; delimit the geographical scope of this public institution, in consultation with the municipalities concerned; substitute this public institution for EPADESA and Defacto. Created in 1958, the district of La Défense was conceived as a state project, aimed at equipping Paris with an international business district, the development of which is carried out by a public institution. For example, the EPAD was created, with the status of a public industrial and commercial establishment of a national interest, and became EPADESA in 2015. However, the latter's economic model, based on financing through the sale of rights to be developed, has never enabled it to carry out the task of managing and maintaining the works entrusted to it by the State, for lack of ownership by the communities of this mission from their general budgets. As a result, investments have long been insufficient to ensure the safety of the facilities and the adaptation of this area to the changing needs of its users. This situation also leads to governance difficulties, regularly pointed out by the Court of Auditors, which have repeatedly weakened the La Défense district. To address these problems, a new public institution, called Defacto, was established in 2007 specifically to carry out the management mission. Its governance and funding had been entrusted to the Hauts-de-Seine department and to the communes of Courbevoie and Puteaux, who quickly challenged the cost of the renovations they were charged for. This is why the law of 27 January 2014 on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises, known as MAPTAM, clarified the property ownership regime between EPADESA and Defacto. Although legally stronger than the previous one, this new organization has failed to resolve disputes over the distribution of the investments to be made and their financing. This is why it was decided at the interministerial committee on the Greater Paris in October 2015 to merge the two local public institutions in order to give more coherence to the planning and management policies and to resolve the ongoing disputes. This announcement has therefore been translated, in the Act of 28 February 2017 referred to above, by an authorization of the Government to act by order. The area of La Défense now covers 160 hectares. The first business district in Europe, thanks to its extensive office space – more than 3 million square meters – it comprises around 2950 companies, 180,000 employees and 245,000 square meters of shops. The content of the order and the ratification bill are, it should be noted, particularly bold in that they are decentralizing this district of national interest. In this they are part of the continuity of the work of the previous legislature, which aimed to modernise our decentralised organisation, around two main axes: rationalising governance and the territorial map; better define the competences and responsibilities of the different local actors. As a reminder, these two lines are found in the MAPTAM law, and also in the Law of 16 January 2015 on the delimitation of the regions, in the Law of 16 March 2015 on the improvement of the regime of the new municipality and in the Law "NOTRE" on the new territorial organization of the Republic of 7 August 2015. The Ordinance operates a decentralization of the new public institution, called "Paris La Défense". Its board of directors will consist of 17 members, including nine representatives from the Hauts-de-Seine department, a representative from the Île-de-France region, a representative from the Greater Paris metropolis, a representative from the City of Paris, a representative from the commune of Courbevoie, a representative from the commune of Nanterre, one from Puteaux and two qualified persons appointed by the Government. In the New Left Group, we are not opposed to allowing the Prefect to suspend the binding nature of the decisions of the Board of Directors and to ask for a second deliberation if they clearly affect national interests, in particular the proper functioning of the public services. This power of the prefect, which is justified by the particular place of the district of La Défense in the economic life of our country, is sufficiently bordered not to call into question the decentralizing spirit of the ordinance. The New Left Group also supports the requirement for the public institution to prepare a ten-year commitment document setting out a multi-year financial path, including significant investments. The first multi-annual investment programme dedicated to the upgrading and management of works will have to amount to at least €360 million over the next ten years. It is also important for the commitments to be fulfilled that communities be required to sign a funding agreement for the new institution so that their representatives can have a deliberative voice on the board of directors. The New Left Group is concerned, however, about the coexistence of three separate perimeters over which the public institution will exercise all or part of its tasks. Indeed, there will be co-existence of a development area which is similar to that of the EPADESA, a management area which takes over that of Defacto and an exclusive planning and management area on which the new establishment alone will be able to exercise the skills of manager and manager. In the long run, consideration will have to be given to the simplification of this organisation, which could make the work of the public institution more complex. The Court of Auditors has recently noted that the high uncertainty on the perimeter constituted a "disadvantage" for the start-up of the establishment. As such, clause 2 of the bill passed by the Senate goes in the right direction, strengthening the role of municipalities in defining these boundaries. The New Left Group supported the removal by the National Assembly's Law Commission of section 3 of the bill, which was inserted by senators. Indeed, extending the possibility for the public institution Paris La Défense to set up subsidiaries would run counter to the objective of simplifying territorial governance. With respect to clause 7, again inserted by senators, the New Left Group has doubts as to whether parking lots should be transferred free of charge to the new establishment. The original provision of the order seemed preferable: i.e. the provision of these car parks at the future establishment for a period of sixty years. The Court of Auditors considers that this free transfer would represent "a heavy loss to the State". For this afternoon's public meeting, the New Left Group has tabled an amendment – but an important amendment, to which we are very committed. This amendment to Article 4 aims to ensure that the nine representatives of the Hauts-de-Seine department on the board of directors of the Paris La Défense public institution are appointed in proportion to the staff of the political groups that make up the departmental assembly. It would be unacceptable, in the name of political pluralism, for all these representatives to come from the departmental majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u40	In short, while the New Left Group supports the decentralization of the governance of the public institution Paris La Défense and the sustainable financing of the most urgent investments, it is concerned about the coexistence of several perimeters, the project of free transfer of the parking lots and it asks with force and conviction – and it hopes to be heard, Mr Minister – that the representation of the Hauts-de-Seine department on the board of directors be pluralistic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u41	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u42	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the order for which ratification is requested establishes on 1 January 2018 a public institution, Paris La Défense, which unites the two institutions currently responsible for the management and development of the business district of La Défense. We oppose it for three reasons. First of all – although we have understood that it is not thanks to this argument that we will succeed in convincing you – we ask ourselves what is the interest of France in a neighbourhood such as La Défense. The purpose of this bill is to strengthen it: it is evident from the documentation attached to the bill, as well as from the exchanges that took place in the Senate. Defence is a business district, where large multinationals working in different sectors of activity work side by side in a synergy, or rather one-to-one, that you think would be good for the country's affairs. We strongly doubt the existence of any relationship between the strengthening of a business centre such as La Défense and the good health of the country's economic activity. In fact, you explain to us that La Défense is already the number one in Europe and number four in the world: if it were the standard of good economic health, employment and the development of the industry, it would be well known!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u43	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u44	Mathieu Darnaud, rapporteur of the text in the Senate, clearly indicated the objective of the merger of the two institutions: it is the "Snake of the Thames", i.e. to attract the activity of the City of London by taking advantage of Brexit. Already it would have to prove that Brexit will cause a great emigration from London's business world to the European capitals!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u45	With you, no chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u46	In addition, I doubt that developing La Défense will have the direct effect of attracting companies that would leave the City as a result of Brexit. You've already given them a lot; in the name of the same objective, we have already been brought down very sharply the taxation of capital in the finance law for 2018, with the idea of some tax dumping: the least-so-called tax would be likely to attract large international finance companies and large multinational groups. Again, I doubt it's for something, because you'll always find someone who will go further than you in the least-so-called tax. With this scalable race, in order to reduce the revenue of the state to the benefit of finance, I fear that it is the balance and the budget of the country that suffers. On the other hand, one could summon Fernand Braudel and evoke the long time: one will not break so easily with certain historical logics, such as the rapprochement of the Anglo-Saxon business world with the Batavian world, as illustrated by the departure of some entities from the City to Holland – but this would lead us too far. In any case, I would prefer, for my part, to make efforts to defend the major French industrial groups, such as Alstom, rather than to attract ever more finance. You will understand that for a group like ours, which thinks it is essential to defunnanciarize the economy, it is a point of disagreement. Second difficulty – I hope this will convince you more: this bill enshrines the weakening of the state and even its dismantling. You wish to entrust the responsibility for the development of La Défense to the local authorities, in particular the department of Hauts-de-Seine, which would be the majority on the board of directors. The only remaining presence of the State within the State would be that of the regional prefect. On the one hand, we hear Mr Bourlanges denounce the Jacobinism to which La Défense would be subjected – which, as everyone can see, is an entity of purely departmental or even local interest: it would almost be explained to us that it resembles a local gymnasium. Why not propose that the elected representatives of Courbevoie, Puteaux, La Garenne-Colombes and Nanterre be the majority, while you are there? On the other hand, you keep saying that this is the number one in Europe and that this will strengthen France's attractiveness. We can see the contradiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u47	I don't see her!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u48	In line with this logic, the Senate has adopted numerous anti-state amendments: for example, the lack of control by the prefect of the region, in section 5 of the bill, or even the direct transfer of ownership of the car parks – which, in fact, belonged to the state – to the public institution you wish to establish, without any consideration. For us, since a territorial pole such as La Défense is a national or even an international business centre, it is obvious that it must remain the business of the state, and of a strategist state. The latter must remain the majority in public institutions, especially when we know what the business and political world have to do with the subject – I will thank you for reminding you of the historical precedents. Third reason – and I hope that whatever your position on La Défense, it will attract your attention: an article published in the newspaper Le Monde dated November 14 and entitled: "La Défense: la Cour des comptes fustige le withdrawal de l'État" evokes an interim report by the Court of Auditors, not yet made public, calling on the Government to postpone the reform of La Défense's public institution. According to this article, the report of the Court of Auditors would denounce the "very questionable" conditions for the transfer of the governance of this state institution to the department of Hauts-de-Seine chaired by Patrick Devedjian. He would even refer to non-transparent accounts and would note that the future establishment would be legally fragile. Moreover, the employees of one of the two public establishments, EPADESA, have alerted us directly and expressed their concern about the conditions of the merger. Consequently, on 15 November we asked the President of the National Assembly, by communiqué, to refrain from examining this text in these circumstances and to have access to the full report of the Court of Auditors. We are surprised to find ourselves today to examine, in such a rapid manner – by order and after the accelerated procedure has been initiated – a bill that is the subject of such a critical judgment by the Court of Auditors. Why are you so eager? Why do we not at least expect the final report of the Court of Auditors? This does not seem to us to restore confidence in public life, as you proposed in July, with very light measures that did not affect the relationship between politics and money. We therefore hope that you will vote against this text, and that it will be referred back to committee, if only pending the report of the Court of Auditors. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Again, we consider this bill unconstitutional. We cannot sit on the rights of the National Assembly. Since, as I believe I have proved, the clarity and sincerity of the debates are largely called into question, this text should not go the way of the Constitutional Council. In any case, we reserve the possibility of seizing it, if we find enough Members willing to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u49	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u50	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are invited to ratify the order made on the basis of the Act of 28 February 2017 relating to the status of Paris and metropolitan development, the purpose of which is to consolidate the two establishments responsible for the development and management of La Défense into a decentralized structure. The creation of this new institution, called Paris La Défense, is due to take place on 1 January 2018. The stakes of this text are far more important than many could have been. Defence remains, as we know, the first European business district. Its territory is home to 3,600 companies in an employment pool of 1.6 million people. In the context of the increased competition between the major cities, following the Brexit, the district of La Défense sharpens political appetites. The right-wing Alto-Sécanese, who has always regarded La Défense as his guarded hunt – or even as a family good – would see himself as the plenipotentiary manager of a future French-style City. Unfortunately, the text you are proposing offers him the opportunity. It gives the keys of La Défense to the departmental majority of Hauts-de-Seine, without the slightest guarantee that the choices of development that will be made in this territory will contribute to a solidarity development of the Greater Paris metropolis. You thus depart from the original intentions of the project promoters. In fact, the original project, as announced in May 2016, had two components: on the one hand, it had the ambition to create a new public institution under the supervision of the local authorities and operating within the historical perimeter of La Défense, bounded by the circular boulevard; On the other hand, he intended to give the communes located outside this perimeter full control of their destiny. The aim was to modernise the business district, to open it more to the municipalities which make up it or surround it, in particular by renovating the roads of traffic, to place the theme of housing at the heart of the issues of solidarity and attractiveness and to include the territory in the energy and ecological transition. Most of La Défense's development is now complete. The economic model which has prevailed so far, and which was based on the construction of new towers to finance the maintenance and renewal of public infrastructure, has lived. It is therefore time to build a new management model based on a genuine partnership between local authorities and the State. The future of La Défense lies first of all in the site's ability to diversify its activities to become a real place of life, to open up to the outside and to reconcile with the vast space around it. It is this new vision of a district of La Défense that no longer considers the neighbouring communes as the back bases of its extension, but rather dialogue and cooperation with them, which the government reform should have carried out. Unfortunately, that is not the case. In the current state of the text, there is nothing to protect the municipalities of choice of development which the department could impose on them, which will have an absolute majority on the board of directors. As it stands, the Ordinance does not even contain the obligation to conclude an agreement between the public institution and the municipality in whose territory it would intervene, which is the minimum in such situations in which several public entities intervene in the same territory. This applies to Nanterre, of course, but also to Puteaux, Courbevoie and La Garenne-Colombes. The State is also a loser. In fact, what guarantee does he have that the agreement he signed in July 2015 on the construction of 4000 housing units, of which 30% of social rental housing in the Groues sector in Nanterre, will be respected? None. At last, Île-de-France has nothing to gain from a reform which entrusts the department of Hauts-de-Seine with the task of developing this sector alone. Paris and Hauts-de-Seine now account for more than half of the office space in Île-de-France, more than 30 million square metres, mainly located in western Paris, in Issy-les-Moulineaux or Puteaux. By comparison, my department of the Seine-Saint-Denis and that of Val-de-Marne now comprises two 9 million square metres of office space. The need for rebalancing in the establishment of enterprises is therefore clear, and the challenge is major for the region in terms of combating transport congestion, combating pollution and promoting a balanced development of the regional territory. What we fear, in plain terms, is that the department of Hauts-de-Seine will try to use the power of development conferred on it by the law in this part of western Paris, in order to carry out operations which would be at the opposite of what everyone considers necessary: a solidarity development of the Paris region. In order to avoid this pitfall, we propose that you include in the law the obligation, for the new public establishment, to conclude a planning agreement with the municipalities on whose territory it would intervene. This agreement would define the content, financing and timing of each operation. It would guarantee the municipalities that no decision can be taken without it, let alone against it. In the same spirit, we have tabled an amendment to ensure pluralism on the board of directors of the future institution. You are aware, indeed, that the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine has already appointed its nine representatives, none of whom are from the departmental opposition. Thus, the right of the High-Seine restored the one party. The presence of members of the opposition among the representatives of the department of Hauts-de-Seine on the board of directors is, however, essential if one is to avoid that the supervisory authority has all the powers. Pluralism would instead promote a logic of dialogue and cooperation. The adoption of our amendments would clearly make it possible to rebalance the text more favourably to the communes, more in line with the original spirit of the bill, and would avoid the situation of blockage which will not fail to occur if the department does not have to contract with the cities. As our colleagues pointed out in their consideration of the text in the Senate, the new establishment cannot act on the 400-hectare perimeter of the city of Nanterre, which represents a third of the territory of the commune, without the express agreement of the commune. This should be understood, regardless of any political considerations, because it is a matter of principle, all the more essential since, as we know, the Hauts-de-Seine department has long wanted to take a low hand over these 400 hectares, given the important construction opportunities they offer. In these circumstances, the concern of Nanterre's elected officials appears to be more than legitimate. We are all aware, of course, of the importance of remedying the recurring difficulties of governance and investment that have marked the management of the territory of La Défense, with the result that the place of life and work of the users and the inhabitants will gradually deteriorate. We are all also convinced that greater territorial cooperation and coherence of local action should now be encouraged if we are to better meet the expectations of our citizens in terms of public services and territorial development than in the past. It is precisely on this last point, however, that the project, which has been removed from all the elements of balance between the Hauts-de-Seine department, the municipalities concerned and the State, no longer preserves the collective interest, which here joins the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In these circumstances, of course, we will make our vote conditional on the acceptance of our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u51	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u52	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, since the end of the summer, under the leadership of the rapporteur, we have conducted numerous hearings in order to give us a comprehensive view of the issues involved in this bill to ratify the order establishing the Paris La Défense public institution. Departments and administrations, territorial authorities, heads of existing institutions, users and users of La Défense, staff representatives, Chamber of Commerce and Industry: nothing or anyone was left to chance. This has enabled us to reach a text that we consider to be balanced from the outset of the committee work, which can both give the keys to action to the communities and provide Paris La Défense with sustainable funding. The creation of this new establishment, under these conditions, can finally happen, so that the management and development of Europe's first business district can regain coherence and dynamism. For the objective pursued through the simplification of governance, thanks to the establishment of a single La Défense manager and manager, is to give this territory power: power to invest, power to renovate, power to attract all kinds of companies and talents from all over the world. We see it – this has been recalled many times here –, the current context is decisive, with Brexit – which has enabled France to obtain the relocation to Paris of the European Banking Authority – but above all with the renewed attractiveness that our country has been experiencing for several months, especially since the election of President Emmanuel Macron. Our image has changed internationally. The reforms necessary to restore our country's spirit of conquest are under way. It is in this context that we must register and give La Défense the keys to continue to attract businesses and jobs, while effectively building its interconnection with neighbouring territories. We are therefore meeting to consider the bill to ratify the order of 3 May 2017, which creates the Paris La Défense public institution by merging the public institution of state EPADESA with the local public institution Defacto. In addition to the advantage of allowing this institution to be operational on 1 January 2018, in just over a month's time, this text goes in the direction of decentralization and simplification. The officials and employees of these institutions have long been waiting for Parliament to approve the merger, finally to project itself into the future and have a clear roadmap. It is also urgent to make the necessary investments, given the safety challenges posed by the condition of the basements – particularly under the slab – and the tunnels. The proposed merger has been under discussion for more than two years between the Hauts-de-Seine Department and the State. Historically, the management of the district of La Défense, since its creation half a century ago, has been entrusted to the latter. While such a choice initially had meaning, given the national dimension of the interests related to this district and the vision of General de Gaulle in matters of regalism, it is nevertheless a centralizing concept of the administration of the territories which must now be updated. We have seen this over the years: the cohabitation between the various institutions, regardless of the administrative forms they have taken, has not allowed a coherent and dynamic management of La Défense. Their partners, particularly institutional ones, were able to measure the complexity of their labour relations. The impossibility of identifying an interlocutor, of clearly delineating the responsibilities of each, of working calmly in the face of two institutions that may sometimes object: all this is not up to the challenges of attractiveness related to La Défense. The role of the state is changing in our times: if it is to retain a strategist dimension, it must also rely on communities to develop the territory. That's the whole meaning of this prescription. The development and management skills of a business district such as La Défense could be part of economic development. In this regard, it would have seemed logical, in accordance with the regional strengthening movement initiated by the MAPTAM and NOTRE laws, to entrust its future to the Île-de-France region. But only the Hauts-de-Seine department has actually shown its interest in investing massively. This example shows us that we still have work to do, colleagues, to clarify the competencies and boundaries of each territorial level in Île-de-France. It will certainly be an opportunity for future debates, but let us not do so: we want and must immediately start the work of decentralisation and simplification of Paris La Défense. In principle, the Republic Group supports such decentralization. This does not mean, however, that the state is disengaged or disinterested in La Défense, as it is understood that the stakes related to this district go beyond the communal or departmental scale. That is why, in committee, we wanted to delete clause 5 of the bill, which came from the work of the Senate, and to reintroduce the power of the Prefect to suspend a decision of the board of directors if he considers that there is a risk of harm to national interests or to the proper functioning of public services. This is a necessary precaution in view of the issues relating to this neighbourhood, which, I would remind you, is an operation of national interest. The Prefect of the Île-de-France region will thus have the power to provoke a second deliberation. Since this will have to be achieved by two thirds of the votes cast, the members of the board of directors will be encouraged to find a stronger majority on the subjects that would prove to be sensitive. In order to further strengthen this effect, the rapporteur proposed an amendment providing that this qualified majority must include representatives of at least two local and regional authorities. Thus, after many years of state management of La Défense, the goal today is to give communities, through this unique institution, the opportunity to develop and animate it. It was also from this perspective that we wished to retain the provisions adopted by our honourable senators concerning parking lots: they must be transferred in the same way as other properties, otherwise the operations of the establishment would be administratively complicated to each new allocation of lots. That is also why we wanted to preserve the balance proposed in the original text and give the Hauts-de-Seine department a majority of voting rights on the board of directors. It is the department that will, as the report shows, bring the bulk of the funding needed for the multi-year investment plan that the neighbourhood urgently needs. The Group of the European People's Party can only welcome the simplification objective behind this text. The purpose of the proposed merger is to put an end to years of unsuccessful institutional developments, both in terms of investment financing and in terms of the legal and operational distribution of competences and boundaries. It is a matter of ending the lack of coordination and the refusal to financially take over the renovation of the area's standards. Only unified management and sustainable financing will enable the district of La Défense to function effectively and develop economic activity in harmony with the surrounding municipalities. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We therefore have before us, ladies and gentlemen, a balanced text, the result of a compromise which respects the various political forces involved, but also an operational and pragmatic text, which will enable the new Paris La Défense institution to act as early as January. I therefore call on you to finalize this long-standing process of simplification and decentralization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u54	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u55	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I welcome the work of Isabelle Florennes and Pacôme Rupin, with whom we have spent many hours in the hearing to understand the issues related to the creation of the new establishment in Paris La Défense. Since 1958, the body responsible for the development of this district has always experienced problems of governance and difficulties in financing its actions. As my colleagues have already said, it is now urgent to take action to secure this aging site where, to take just one example, parts of the slab may collapse. After lengthy negotiations which led to the paralysis of development projects, an agreement was reached to transfer the governance of La Défense from the state to local actors, which we welcome. It is now up to the territory concerned – the department today, perhaps the metropolis tomorrow – to equip the first business centre in France and continental Europe – if I refer to the EY report released last week – with an ambitious project. The first commitment document to be taken by the Management Board will include a multiannual investment programme dedicated to the upgrading and management of works, public spaces and services of general interest, the amount of which may not be less than EUR 360 million over a period of ten years. First of all, it is a matter of getting ready for the most in a hurry and catching up with years of underinvestment. But what will be the roadmap of the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine? It was difficult to see during the hearings. For my part, I call for an ambitious project, harmoniously integrating into the regional territory a smart city of the twenty-first century, eco-responsible and taking into account the reality of the companies, the inhabitants and the students who live there. Our district of La Défense must be open to the world and welcoming to foreign companies and their employees, in order to face the heightened competition from other global business centres such as those in New York, London, Singapore and Tokyo. It is already home to 1500 corporate head offices, including 15 of the world's top 50 largest companies. Our large banks and insurance companies are located there. In December, the Swave, an incubator for start-ups specializing in financial technologies – Fintech – will settle in the Grande Arche. Clearly, it is in La Défense that the European Banking Authority would have its full place. This opening must be organised in association with neighbouring cities, including Paris, of which La Défense is the natural extension in the axis of the Champs-Élysées. But it is especially the cities of Courbevoie, Puteaux, Nanterre, La Garenne-Colombes that must develop an attractive, coherent and complementary offer and image. I would like to mention here the example of Courbevoie, where six international sections were opened in college and high school to accommodate in the best possible conditions the children of the families who come to work there. It is no longer, however, a matter of continuing the flight forward towards ever more towers. The Defence must rethink itself as a place where it is good to live for its 180,000 employees, 40,000 inhabitants and as many students. More housing should therefore be offered, but also places of culture, sports areas and more green spaces. It is in order that the place of users of the site be taken into account that I have tabled an amendment aimed at giving, on the board of directors, an advisory voice to the president of the representatives of the users of La Défense. It was thanks to this model of governance that London and Singapore successfully integrated the inhabitants of their business centres. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] During my term of office, I will be a Member of Parliament who is attentive to the smooth running of the project, the order of which provides that it will be presented to us in six months' time. I hope that he will be visionary, so that La Défense's attractiveness will contribute to that of France while benefiting the department and the region.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u56	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u57	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, almost sixty years after the creation of the district of La Défense, we are examining in this Chamber the bill ratifying the order establishing the single public institution Paris La Défense. Let me return to the origins of the project that brings us together today. Let us recall in fact the political will of General de Gaulle, who, by the decree of 9 September 1958, created the public establishment of La Défense, thus giving an extraordinary future to several hectares of wasteland distributed between the communes of Puteaux, Courbevoie and Nanterre. Were the first builders of this monumental project then imagining the first European business district? What the newspapers of the time already called the "Manhattan Français", which now houses 3600 companies, including fifteen of the world's first fifty? Sixty years later, we must, in turn, complete this eternal project, finally giving it stable, efficient, legible and sustainable governance. Sixty years later, in the context of Brexit, we need more than ever to give this territory the means to be attractive and competitive in the face of its European and international competitors. The renewal of the La Défense neighbourhood, which requires further development and modernization, requires overcoming administrative and territorial disputes. These disputes, pointed out in particular by the Court of Auditors in its 2015 annual public report, have, for too long, slowed down or hindered planning operations and led to the ageing of infrastructure and equipment. The text we are looking at today provides the answers to the governance and funding issues that are essential to the outreach of this neighbourhood. It concludes two years of preparation and consultation. In essence, the questions that we are called upon to answer today, through the ratification of this ordinance, are as follows: do we want to ensure that this territory will have a future commensurate with the ambitions we have for it? Do we want to make this major economic territory a neighbourhood to live in, a neighbourhood where we live, and not a neighbourhood where we only come to work or sleep? It should be recalled that La Défense already hosts 42,000 inhabitants, 45,000 students, 180,000 daily workers, and more tomorrow. Like the recent inauguration of the U Arena and the success of the Jardins de l'Arche, its layout is not limited to the reception of offices. For La Défense is also a place of life, a place to live together, a place of meeting and a place of fraternity. This fraternity, which, let us recall, gave its name to the one we commonly call the Great Arch of Defense. Inaugurated in 1989 by President François Mitterrand, the "Arche de la Fraternité" must inspire us and guide us. Indeed, it is much more than the development of a business district, it is a land project! It is in this sense that I agree with the imperatives set out by the rapporteur: to remain attentive to the developments, needs and aspirations of both users and residents, not to mention the surrounding territories; improve quality of life, travel, housing mix and sociocultural animation. Because La Défense's attractiveness must no longer be seen under the sole prism of economic activity, but must be part of a larger, more harmonious and more sustainable project. No actor can decide alone the future of a territory like this. Finally, constructive governance is needed: the merger of the two institutions, provided for in this project, will contribute to coherence, representativeness and efficiency. We are also making the unprecedented choice to decentralize governance by entrusting the department of Hauts-de-Seine with the task of establishing a development strategy and ensuring, with all the communities concerned, the territorial cooperation that has so often been lacking. A flexible, responsive, but also secure decision-making process was crucial. The security of decisions, first of all, will be materialized by the non-deliberative presence of the Prefect of Île-de-France; in the event of a manifest infringement of national interests, of the property interests of the State or of the proper functioning of public services, the latter shall have the right to suspend the enforceability of the decisions of the Board of Directors. To this, the law committee of our assembly has added another protection: in case of suspension, a second deliberation will have to take place and, to be adopted, the decision will have to obtain a two-thirds majority of the votes cast and the support of at least two communities. In addition to the security of decisions, this project also guarantees the necessary financial security. With 360 million euros over a ten-year period, the territory of La Défense will be able to make the most urgent investments, a crucial aspect in view of the real security challenges posed by the infrastructure and equipment of this district. In conclusion, I think it is important to point out that this local, national and European economic lung must in no way be seen as a place for the monopoly of wealth. On the contrary, let us see a bounty, a locomotive and a new breath for our territories and our country. I say it all the more firmly because I am elected from one of the poorest constituencies in the department. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Colleagues, trust, simplification, efficiency and sustainability characterize the spirit as the letter of this bill, which I am defending today before national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u58	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Chair, the rapporteur and the members of the committee for the spirit in which the work was done, as well as all the speakers for the quality of the comments made. I note that no group, with the exception of La France's unsubstantiated group whose motivations I understand, contests the principle and the merits of the merger of the two institutions, nor does the simplification and decentralization efforts carried out by the text proposed for the vote of the National Assembly. There are two questions that can lead to different answers: the first concerns relations between communities – the examination of the amendments will give us time to deepen it – and the second concerns the role of the state. We wanted to respect the balance between the decentralization effort and the justified presence of the State on an extremely important issue for the future, not only in this neighbourhood, but also in the country, which justified my positions on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u60	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u61	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u62	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u63	At the time of the introduction of the enabling bill, the Prime Minister had said: "The institution will exercise exclusive planning and management jurisdiction within the historical perimeter of La Défense, and its precise delimitation will be determined in relation to the riparian territorial communities. As it stands, the proposed text is not in line with this commitment. If the future establishment frees itself from the historical perimeter to carry out planning operations, without consultation, or even with the simple opinion of the municipality concerned, there is little doubt that this violates the constitutional principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. This amendment provides that the scope of action of the future local public establishment will be defined in consultation with and with the assent of the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u64	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u65	By voting section 1 without amendment, we have just ratified this order. I thank the National Assembly for this and I am pleased to see the majority of these benches – and even beyond – endorsing this important text of simplification and decentralization. It was important for national representation to take this step, thus opening up the possibility for the Territory to re-engage. Your amendment, Mr Peu, aims to condition any change in the boundaries of the two current INOs with the assent of the municipalities. It seems to me that this is contrary to the very principle of these operations of national interest. Their implementation on a coherent perimeter cannot thus be blocked by a municipality which would not like to participate in it. That is why I am opposed to your amendment. On the other hand, I am very much in favour of the Senate's proposed addition of the principle of consultation of the communes on these perimeters because I believe that this consultation will foster cooperation between the different territories in defining the site of La Défense-Seine Arche.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u66	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u67	It's also an unfavorable opinion. The requirement for the municipalities to give their assent would risk freezing any developments in the perimeters. However, the two Defence INOs justify that the definition of the intervention perimeters after simple advice from the communities remains a prerogative of the state. The Government is committed to conducting the necessary consultations with the communities concerned. In fact, the Senate has introduced the word "conciliation" into this text. I understand the fears that you express, which are those of the commune of Nanterre, among other things, that decisions which are contrary to communal policy should be imposed on your territory and that the condition of assent would allow it to block. But our goal is that the system works and that the representative of the State always has a say. If we wanted the word "concertation" to appear in the text, it was to avoid any blockage, whether it was done by one or the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u68	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u69	I would like to point out that this assent would concern only the perimeter and I repeat that the original objective limited the powers of the institution to the historical perimeter of Defence. Those who know this territory – and there are many here – know that this is the area bounded by the circular boulevard. However, the proposed text allows us to extend the planning powers of La Défense's public institution far beyond its historical perimeter after a simple consultation with the neighbouring municipalities. Thus, 40 per cent of the territory of the commune of Nanterre is likely to be set up by a public institution not under its authority and on the sole condition of its consultation. That is why we propose the requirement of a assent of these communes for any extension of the planning powers of the public establishment beyond its historical perimeter, i.e. beyond the circular boulevard.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u70	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u71	Two things, Mr. Little. First of all, as part of an operation of national interest, it is the prefect who approves the building permits and the development operations, and this will remain the case for this future establishment. Secondly, what you describe is not a novelty: EPADESA development projects are already being implemented in the Seine Arche perimeter. It is simply the agglomeration of the two existing perimeters. As it emerged from the work of the Senate, on the contrary, the text strengthens the power of the communes by adding the concertation of the communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u72	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u73	Your argument is paradoxical: the State withdraws from the Defence for the benefit of a territorial community, the department, while arguing that these operations are of national interest to justify the lack of assent of the communes! I am elected from a territory where the question of INOs arises, and I see that today, after the experience of decentralization and the contribution of the municipalities to the planning of the territories, there is no longer a large world – except clearly here – to defend the development operations imposed on the local authorities by the sole authority of the State. There is no longer a prefect, no longer a designer, no longer a ministry to defend this vision of things. The requirement of assent on the perimeter seems to me to be of common sense in that it makes it possible to reconcile the national interest with the sovereignty of communes whose officials may have been elected on programmes which differ from the political orientations of the departmental council – this is the case with Nanterre. It is going to take this into account at some point so that one cannot impose operations on others that it does not have the legitimacy to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u74	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u75	We return once again to the original intentions of the Government, and that will not be the last, as far as this text is concerned. On 27 May 2016, at the time of its presentation by the previous Prime Minister, the order reforming La Défense's governance had two objectives: to remove La Défense's planning authority from the state by placing the new public institution under the supervision of the communities and to return to a new establishment's scope of operation limited to the business district only, thereby giving the municipalities a margin of freedom in the conduct of their development operations. These were the two initial objectives. However, as drafted, the order only partially meets these objectives. More specifically, it does not respond to this question with regard to the scope of intervention. We therefore propose that, outside its historical perimeter, the development operations carried out by the establishment be subject to the conclusion of an agreement with the municipality in whose territory the operation is carried out, including those already undertaken by the previous establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u77	I do not dispute your knowledge of this territory and your experience with INOs, but in this particular case, I find that the text allows significant progress by entrusting the planning and management of this territory to the communities. Your amendment provides that any planning operation on Seine Arche territory will have to be the subject of a convention. I would point out that such agreements are already possible if the parties consider them necessary to carry out development projects. At present, however, EPADESA is developing the territory of Seine Arche without the municipalities concerned considering that it is always necessary to agree. As a reminder, the cooperative development area of the Groues is the subject of a development project between EPADESA and the city of Nanterre, providing 340,000 square metres of housing and 200,000 square metres of office space. The first developments will start in 2018 and the first real estate projects are planned to be delivered in 2019. I understand the will that you express before us, but for the time being, the public establishment Paris - La Défense will usefully maintain this project for the development of the district of Groues and will continue the work that has been carried out. It is also important to remember that the Hauts-de-Seine department is not the only decision-maker: you are informed – things are pretty clear about governance – and the City of Nanterre is perfectly represented. Finally, I would like to point out that the City of Nanterre has been fully involved in the development of current successes such as the U Arena and the Jardins de l'Arche, which shows that communities are already in a position to work together. My report is aimed precisely at strengthening this way of doing things, and I hope that the future will give us reason. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u79	The Government's opinion was also unfavourable. Why? Not because we would not understand the position of the mayor of Nanterre and his majority, I said earlier, but because, if I sum up this amendment, you actually want to link the planning interventions of the Seine Arche ION to a compulsory agreement with the municipality, which would almost amount to a veto. However, as we have said, there is a need for consultation – the text has it – which is essential even, but the obligation to sign a convention would be to block the system. As Paris La Défense's core business is to develop the two IONs La Défense and La Défense Seine Arche, this institution must maintain its initiative capacity on the perimeter. Since I was asked earlier about future developments, I would add that the evolution of the distribution of competences within the metropolitan area of Greater Paris raises the capacity for development to an intercommunal or metropolitan level. Therefore, the obligation of a convention linking Paris La Défense and a commune would not seem to me to be very consistent. The Government, Mr. MP, wants a global balance to be achieved. We can only move forward if there is consultation and respect for the great territorial balances. I hear the concerns, but coming to the point of establishing a veto, it is ultimately the assurance to go ahead with blockages.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u80	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u81	In the interests of keeping the spirit of simplification in this text, we do not think that it is necessary to increase the decision-making conditions of this public institution in order to develop the territory, even if I understand your concerns. Concertation must take place in a respectful but also effective manner, which is why we are against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u82	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u83	I said earlier that we would make our vote conditional on the welcome that you would reserve to our amendments and... this is a bad move, especially on this question of convention. One of the objectives of the order, the change in governance, will still not have escaped you. We are still changing the situation when we move from a situation where the state can in a sense guarantee the interests of the various stakeholder communities – whatever their sensitivities – to the situation we will now experience. The guarantees of "impartiality" – in quotation marks – that the State could offer when it was at the head of these institutions disappear when the keys are entrusted to the only departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine which, itself, envisages taking power within this institution without any pluralism being respected. It is quite logical: even as he is about to take over the management of this institution, the departmental council announces the colour since only the majority who compose it will be represented within the public institution, which does not augurs for a willingness to work in good intelligence with the various political representatives of the communes that surround the project. Behaviours therefore generate anxiety, suspicion. To this is added, Minister, that the right-wing majority of the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine has often politically assumed the fact of being outlawed with respect to compliance with article 55 of the law on urban solidarity and renewal – it is indeed the department that has the largest number of communes derogating from it. You can imagine that a commune such as Nanterre, with the development project of the district of Groues, signed with the State, which has 30% of social housing, can only worry about the refusal of a representation of the plurality of its majority and the ownership of the development by the department of Hauts-de-Seine. I therefore do not see how a convention with the communes would constitute a brake or a veto: it is simply a question of preserving their interests and putting a little bit of pluralism in the management of this future territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u84	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u85	Mr. Minister will confirm this, but it seems to me that the current project between EPADESA and the City of Nanterre around the cooperative development area of the Groues will be supported and pursued by the future public facility, which should still address your concerns, which we hear well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u86	The mayor of Nanterre was president of the board of directors of EPADESA, he won't be!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u87	That's another subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u88	No! That is the issue of governance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u89	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u90	Editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u91	The rapporteur, Mrs Isabelle Florennes, has the floor to support Amendment No. 14, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u92	The aim of this amendment is to ensure that the future establishment, as part of its management role, is able to exercise the powers of mayors with regard to road cleanliness and traffic. This is a request from the municipalities of Puteaux and Courbevoie and the Defacto Institution to promote better management of the La Défense slab. This territory is indeed very integrated; Such an option left to the establishment, if the municipalities agree – this is the case – will ensure a better service to the users of the slab.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u93	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 9 and 11. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u94	The accounting and budgetary framework M. 4 which, as it stands, is effective against the future establishment is not adapted to the new planning tasks and does not meet the need for transparency and financial communication of these operations. Indeed, the M. 4 benchmark does not provide for any specific provision for long-term operations, which will be one of the core activities of the new establishment. A major difficulty remains the budgetary constraint relating to instruction M. 4, which constitutes an obstacle to the implementation of accounting principles for the recognition of the progress of the risks attached to the development operations, or even an obstacle to the carrying out of the activity itself when significant expenditure is required for the implementation of a development programme and it has been anticipated – and therefore budgeted – at a different rate. The financial regime of the new establishment is therefore a first-rate issue for the start-up and operation of Paris La Défense, which, I would remind you, is a local public institution with dual competence, planning and management: this unique situation in France justifies not applying to it the reference point M. 4. In our view, the implementation of the general accounting plan, which is a financial regime already applied by other public institutions, is the most relevant approach to take account of the characteristics of the institution. Indeed, the CCP meets the limits and blockages that I have set out and meets the performance requirements of the management of the activity through the profit and loss account, the sincerity of the monitoring and the return of the activity, the comparability of the financial information vis-à-vis the outside world. It would also allow for an accessible and understandable accounting presentation by all stakeholders, including the business community. The order could be amended to ensure that the institution is subject to the general financial and accounting plan. The decree implementing the order would thus be adapted accordingly and could provide that the use of the PCG by Paris La Défense is accompanied by the implementation of efficient cost accounting, adapted to the reporting needs of stakeholders and allowing for an effective response to the objectives of the budget monitoring as well as...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u96	...this is my conclusion, of a strengthened internal and external control environment such as, for example, the audit committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u97	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u98	I, too, presented on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The Republicans have an amendment to ensure that accounting and budgetary rules from the general accounting plan are applied to the new Paris La Défense public establishment. At this stage, however, it is planned to apply the budgetary and accounting framework referred to as M.4 used by local public institutions. It seems to us that this budgetary and accounting framework is not perfectly adequate and that it does not really take into account all the operations which the new establishment may have to carry out, in particular planning operations, which are often complex, with projects which can be extended over a long period of time and whose implications are significant, etc. My amendment therefore calls for the budgetary and accounting framework of the new public institution Paris La Défense to take account of the specific nature of its activities. I have here a note from the Directorate-General for Public Finance dated 13 November 2017 very clearly mentioning the accounting rules applicable to this matter but which, in an equally clear and precise manner, act that it and the Directorate-General for Local Authorities could, if necessary, grant to this institution a derogatory accounting scheme in order to take into account the conclusion of writings relating to long-term contracts. A little more coherence is therefore needed. If the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance are already considering derogating rules, it is good that certain realities have been realized.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u100	The purpose of these amendments is therefore to incorporate the institution's accounting model into the law. However, I believe that this is more a matter of regulation than a matter of law. Please remove them. However, I agree with you, Mrs Le Grip, because the question you have raised has already been raised during our hearings. It seems to me, and you must have been informed, that the Directorate-General for Public Finance sent details on this issue to institutions last week. I leave it to the minister to give us guarantees on the qualities of the accounting model that will apply in the future establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u102	The Government is opposed to these two amendments. I do not wish to conflict with you on this issue. Mrs Le Grip, you made it very clear during your speech in the general discussion that there were some differences between us – here's one. In reply to the rapporteur's question, the current reference framework offers some flexibility and allows the concept of a long-term contract to be integrated. Why do we want to maintain the application of local public accounting? First, there is now no precedent in the local public sphere for the application, either of the general accounting plan or of a benchmark applicable to national public institutions. Secondly, the point of maintaining the local repository is that it introduces prudential rules. Of course, it is not a matter of making a trial of intent for future governance as to its management, but it seems to me that, when prudential rules exist, the general interest is to maintain them. On the budgetary front, first of all, they ensure the annuality, the limited appropriations and the balance of the sections. In the area of governance, they then guarantee the separation between the authorising officer and the accounting officer, the personal and financial responsibility of the accounting officer, as well as the checking of the prefect's legality and budget and the control of the Regional Chamber of Accounts. The application of the general accounting plan would lead to the disappearance of the above prudential rules and a fundamental change in governance. This would in any case lead – I would like to stress – to the need to define new prudential rules, which should be included in the statutes of the institution. Finally, I agree with the rapporteur that such a provision does not fall within the legislative sphere and can be amended within the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u103	Mrs Le Grip, would you like to retain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u104	I thank the rapporteur for relaying my concerns and for coming back to the very specific questions raised by the amendment tabled by my colleague Jean-Yves Bournazel and the one I defended on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I also heard the minister and understood that there was a beginning to start taking into account the budgetary specificities of the future establishment. Nevertheless, at this stage, I wish to maintain my amendment, so that things can be said once and for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u105	Mr. Bournazel, what about yours?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u106	I'm keeping it, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u107	The Commission has deleted Article 3. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 15, which is intended to restore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u108	The aim of this amendment is to restore the possibility for the new Paris La Défense public institution to set up subsidiaries. The order, in its original version, provided that the public institution could acquire interests from local public development companies – SPLA. The Senate had wished to go further, extending this faculty to the creation of any kind of subsidiary "whose object directly contributes to the fulfilment of its tasks" However, this provision has been deleted by the Committee on the Laws of our House, which I regret. I therefore propose, by this amendment, that this provision be reinstated. Subsidiaries seem to me to be an absolutely necessary legal instrument, and I will give you a precise and concrete example to illustrate my point. There is currently a very exciting strategic project to create a Living Lab Paris La Défense, which could be a major challenge for competitiveness, attractiveness and innovation in this area. This Living Lab would be to install a start-up incubator at the very heart of La Défense, in the premises of Paris La Défense, and to create an ecosystem conducive to collaborative innovation on fundamental projects for the neighborhood, such as smart city or new working methods. This extremely innovative project, in which a very important French banking institution is associated, and in which the State is also involved – through the Hauts-de-Seine prefecture – needs a suitable, flexible and coherent vehicle. It would therefore be a matter of establishing lasting and balanced partnerships with all kinds of private and public partners, through a subsidiary. This concrete example shows how useful it would be to give the public institution Paris La Défense the ability to create subsidiaries, because they, I repeat, are useful, efficient and perfectly adapted legal vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u109	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u110	Madam Member, we have come to a very consensual text in committee, and the point you are raising is one of the few issues on which we are still slightly diverged. You wish to re-establish a provision, introduced in the Senate, that is to give the future public institution Paris La Défense the opportunity to create subsidiaries. We have deleted it because, while participation in local public development companies is highly desirable in terms of development, the latter may indeed constitute good tools for cooperation with the municipalities concerned, the scope of the tasks entrusted to the establishment does not at present justify the extension of this option to any type of local public society. Moreover, the examples you give – such as the development of the Living Lab project – do not seem to us to require the creation of subsidiaries. The tasks entrusted to the manager may be carried out directly by the public institution. At this stage, we therefore wish to retain the text of the order, and the committee's opinion on your amendment is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u112	I would also like to express an unfavourable opinion on this amendment, first of all because I believe that it is necessary to return to the core business of the Paris La Défense public institution, which is to carry out planning operations. You want to make it possible to create local public companies. It happens to be a system that I know well, since I was the rapporteur of the PLS Act. In the explanatory memorandum, you quote an achievement around new technologies, "in partnership with a large banking institution". However, it turns out that a large banking institution cannot participate in an SPL, since it can only bring together public operators – local authorities or state. So what you're proposing would not be possible. Moreover, this would lead to the opening up of the scope of activity of the public institution far beyond what was originally planned. We agree that the public institution should participate in SPLAs, and that is what I believe I have indicated in the Senate, but it would not be appropriate to extend this provision to SPLs, which may apply to all fields of activity, from the moment they involve at least two communities or the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u113	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u114	With this amendment, we intend to denounce the way in which the governance of the new institution is currently being considered. It is clear that decentralization here is a problem. Indeed, La Défense cannot be presented – and no one here is thinking of doing so – as a departmental business centre. It is obviously a national and even international business centre, since you hope to attract a large part of the City's activity. So its dimension has nothing to do with the department. And that is why we want to restore to the State the role that should be its own in this institution, that is, the first. Moreover, one cannot ignore the political colour of the general council: it is a bastion of the right, and of a right that has often been involved in business – just look at the story to convince one another. And you want to give this right an absolutely exorbitant power on this international business center! The rejection of Stéphane Peu's amendments shows that you absolutely do not want political pluralism. For these two reasons, we want the State to be, within this public institution, the guarantor of political neutrality, but also of neutrality towards a politico-financial world which, in the Hauts-de-Seine, has not always been the most stifling.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u116	I am not going to make history of the right-wing majority in the General Council of the Hauts-de-Seine,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u117	That would be necessary!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u118	... nor that of the department itself; This is not the purpose of this text. I am not in favour of your amendment, for the good reason that it goes back to the very principle contained in the order, that we assume: decentralizing the governance of La Défense. As I have already told you in committee, the local and regional authorities concerned, whom we have heard, wish to invest and fully carry out their tasks, while the State, for various reasons, has unfortunately disengaged for a number of years. It seems to me that the order has reached a balance, which your amendment would call into question. On the other hand, you do not settle the issue of investments, unless you consider that communities can bear these expenses alone, but they cannot be trusted to lead a coherent development and management project... Even though I have not been able to convince you, I hope at least that I have made you understand our approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u120	The Government is opposed to this amendment. I note, in confronting the various amendments that have been tabled, that some of you wish to give the state a majority presence on the board of directors, while others, on the contrary, would like it to be excluded. The Government's determination, which it had always demonstrated during the drafting of the text and during the discussions, was to maintain a balance. The process of decentralization calls for more power and responsibility to be given to local authorities and, at the same time, we want the State to remain present, given the importance of this issue for spatial planning. I repeat, we wanted to find a balance. Since it is a local public institution, it is normal for communities to be the majority. I would also point out that the Prefect of the Île-de-France region attends the meetings of the Board of Directors and can of course intervene, it has been recalled, in the event that he considers that there is a risk to the national interest or to a number of major balances. In addition, the State appoints two qualified officials to the board of directors. That is to say, the state is still present.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u121	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u122	You said, Mr. Little, that the Hauts-de-Seine department was a bastion on the right. In my view, it is wise to legislate without necessarily taking into account the weight of the political groups at the moment. Our role is to legislate in a sustainable manner, in keeping with time. In fact, we can see that nothing is ever acquired in political matters. We must therefore remain cautious and legislate in the general interest, not according to local political colours.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u124	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 3 and 7. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u125	This morning, the rapporteur, in the pages of the Parisian devoted to Hauts-de-Seine, you called for an agreement between the city of Nanterre and the Hauts-de-Seine department. When I read this statement, I said to myself that you would welcome our amendments more favourably, which are aimed precisely at promoting consensus. For having been myself in charge of planning and urban planning in the territories of Plaine Commune and La Plaine Saint-Denis, some of which say they are the second or third business district of the Paris region after La Défense, I can tell you that in a territory marked by diversity, one does not make planning without consensus. It's the base; It's even the rule. It could have been considered that everyone applies this rule of consensus to himself and takes it into account for the composition of the board of directors of the public institution. But even before we ratified this order, the department of Hauts-de-Seine appointed its representatives. These nine representatives out of a total of 17 members, who therefore have an absolute majority, are totally politically homogeneous. Clearly, the wisdom rule of seeking consensus on development projects, which must be entirely oriented towards the general interest, is not on the agenda of the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine. That is why we propose, by this amendment, to make the proportional representation of the political forces that make up the departmental assembly compulsory. In other words, the nine representatives of the department of Hauts-de-Seine, which has an absolute majority, would be appointed in proportion to the staff of the various political sensitivities within the departmental council.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u126	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u127	It is true, as Mr Pacôme Rupin has said, that we must legislate for the time being, without taking into account the current situation. It is in the name of this principle and in the name of pluralism that we have tabled this amendment, which would make it possible to reintroduce plurality within the representation of the Hauts-de-Seine department. I think that would be in the right direction. As you said, the law is based on a form of decentralization of governance, a principle to which we are committed. For this decentralization to be perfect, this dimension of plurality must be added. In view of the current composition of the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine, there is no reason to fear that the principle of proportional representation should be respected; There is no risk that the majority will be upset. On the other hand, the opposite risk exists: if the homogenous representation referred to by our colleague Stéphane Peu is maintained, we will let it be said that we have something to hide. By refusing to introduce a form of plurality, one will allow one to say that one wants to remain in a self-society which, in my view, belongs to the past in this matter. As the rapporteur has said, we are not going to make a history of what has happened for years in this territory and in this type of establishment. On the other hand, if we want to take account of the lessons of history, we must play the card of plurality. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u128	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u129	By these amendments, you are asking for proportional representation of the political groups. As I have already told you in committee, I believe that there is a need to preserve the free choice of communities, particularly in terms of representation on the board of directors. This is, I repeat, a text of decentralization. It is important to give this freedom and trust to communities, which we are doing very clearly with this bill. You referred to an article, Mr. Peu. I believe that no meaningful development project will emerge from this new territory, with a wider scope, without an agreement or consensus with the various stakeholder communities. The communities, including the Hauts-de-Seine departmental council and the city of Nanterre, have already shown us that they are able to agree to make adjustments. The U Arena and the gardens of the Ark are good examples of this; I hope you've had the opportunity to see that. At some point, we have to get out of the political postures. And we need to talk. With this bill and in my report, we make it very clear that there is a need for consultation and consensus. I repeat this to the attention of the elected representatives of the communities who listen to us, both to the cities, including Nanterre, and to the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine: the projects must all, in order to succeed, be marked by consultation and consensus. Unfavorable opinion on these two identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u131	There is a legal problem: if we force the departmental council to reproduce the balance that characterizes it within its representation, we will be at the limit – or rather we will exceed it, I fear – of an excessive infringement of the principle of the free administration of territorial authorities, to which you referred earlier, as enacted by the Constitution and by Article L. 1111-1 of the General Code of Territorial Communities. For sixteen years I have presided over the executive of an agglomeration, and there have always been vice-presidents from my opposition in this executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u132	It's more radical!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u133	However, Mr. Little, not all political sensitivities have acted in this way in their history. My personal opinion is that it can be extremely useful to associate different sensitivities within an executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u134	It's also my experience!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u135	I am pleased to see that you are joining me on this point. I hope – as I think I am – that the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine will eventually arrive at this good and virtuous solution. As it stands, I think that the rule you are proposing would pose a legal problem. I therefore express an opinion against these two identical amendments. I fully understand your objective and I can subscribe to it. The Government is seeking consensus on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u136	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u137	As regards respect for pluralism in our assemblies, not only do I agree with you, minister, but we share the same experience and have had the same way of doing things. As far as Plaine Commune is concerned, there is no executive, not a development project that does not take into account the plurality of sensitivities existing within the territorial public establishment. With regard to the problem of legality that you raise, I would like to express a doubt: this rule exists in other institutions. I am thinking in particular of the Ile-de-France public land establishment: the region, which has the majority of seats on its board of directors, is represented in proportion to the political groups that make up the regional council. It is the law and the decree that created the public institution that obliges the region to designate its representatives in this way, even if, in my opinion, it would not have needed these texts to do so. The same applies to the Greater Paris metropolis. Intelligence and common sense would have wanted the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine to act in this way. However, he did not even wait until we voted on this bill to appoint his representatives. He kind of unmasked himself before the hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u138	If they've unmasked themselves, it's because they're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u139	Therefore, take into account this inability of the departmental council of Hauts-de-Seine to integrate pluralism, and impose a constraint on it, as we have done for other establishments, such as the Établissement public immobilière d'Île-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u140	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u141	Thank you, Minister, for moving in that direction. We have discussed this issue in the Republic Group on the move. We wanted governance to be balanced, but we did not submit an amendment because of the legal arguments that you referred to. In my view, it is indeed up to the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine to assume its responsibilities. If he did so, it would raise many doubts and restore confidence to the various actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u142	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u143	By this amendment, we propose to revert to the original version of Article 4, as voted by the Senate, and therefore to the original intention of the drafters of the text, which is, first and foremost, to simplify the management of the large European business district of Paris La Défense. The amendment introduced by the amendment voted by the House's Committee on Laws is certainly inspired by a very laudable feeling, but in reality it poses several difficulties. On the one hand, there would be a duplication, in so far as the Ordinance has already provided, alongside the board of directors of the Paris La Défense public establishment, for a development council, in which "the natural and legal persons who regularly use the public facilities and spaces managed by the institution must be represented". Thus, there is already a system of representation of staff and user associations. On the other hand, as several senators have pointed out, in particular the rapporteur of the text, there is no example of a local public institution in which staff representatives are full members of the board of directors. I note, moreover, that the Government is, in a way, making half the way: by Amendment No 18, which it is going to present to us, it proposes to abolish the representation of the Association of Defence Users on the Board of Directors. In any case, I repeat, we believe that there is a duplication of efforts as a result of the amendment introduced by the Assembly's Committee on Laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u145	Unfavorable opinion. I will respond in more detail on this point when we consider Amendment No 18 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u147	Madam Member, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment, because, as you have said, we have come half the way, and vice versa – the bottle is half full or half empty. The Government is in favour of staff representation, and if it is unfavourable to the representation of users on the board of directors, it is in order to avoid conflicts of interest. Given the nature of the issues involved, it would be inappropriate for users to be directly involved in discussions on important issues that may affect the development of the institution. This could pose major conflict of interest problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u148	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u149	In addition, I would like to point out that users are represented on the Development Board.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u150	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u151	We maintain this amendment because, basically, the governance of this public institution is based on two bodies: on the one hand, a steering body, the board of directors; of the other, a consultative body, the Development Council. The steering body is very legitimately led by the elected representatives of the local and regional authorities, in connection with the representative of the State. Staff are not intended to be represented in the steering body of this structure. On the other hand, it is quite natural that they should be represented in the consultation body, the Development Council. The reasoning put forward at the moment by the Minister on the representatives of the users also applies to the representatives of the staff of the communities concerned. That is why we are maintaining our amendment, and we urge you, the rapporteur, to reflect on it again. There is no logical reason to confuse pilotage with consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u152	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u153	We are also in favour of employee participation on the board of directors. Earlier, you wanted accounting to be done according to the rules applicable to private companies. Employees are also represented on the boards of directors of companies. They could therefore also be represented in this type of establishment. I would also like to clarify the Government's amendment No. 18, which seeks to remove the representation of the La Défense users' association on the board of directors. We are in favour of this deletion, but the drafting of this amendment is problematic. We have therefore tabled Amendment No 12, which seeks to clarify the quality of the person to be represented on the board of directors, namely the chairman of the body representing the users of La Défense on the development board. This clarification is likely to avoid conflicts of interest. In fact, this person is already a member of the EPADESA Board of Directors. So I don't see where the conflict of interest could be.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u154	Minister, since the amendment has not been withdrawn, is the Government's opinion unfavourable?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u155	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u156	I have before me two amendments, Nos 18 and 12, which may be submitted to a joint debate. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u157	As I have just indicated, the Government considers that it is not appropriate for representatives of users to sit on the board of directors because of the risk of conflicts of interest. On the other hand, we maintain staff representation. You tell me that users were represented on the EPADESA Board of Directors by the president of the organization representing the users of La Défense on the Development Board, but he no longer sits, because his designation was considered illegal. Since two seats are reserved for users' representatives on the Development Board, in addition to representatives of ITC and other bodies, it is better to avoid any risk of conflicts of interest, which would necessarily arise regardless of the language chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u158	I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u159	We withdraw Amendment No 12 and will vote on Amendment No 18 from the Government, because of the risk of conflicts of interest. However, it would be desirable to initiate a collective reflection within the Chamber or organized by the Government on how users can be more involved, who are the first to be involved in the decisions of the public body responsible for planning their territory. Many countries have chosen, with great success, governance that allows for co-construction. It would be very interesting to have such a reflection, even if we understand the arguments put forward by the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u160	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 18?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u161	I supported the amendment tabled by Mr Rupin and Mrs Hennion in committee, which planned to maintain, in accordance with the decree of 10 May 2017, the representation of staff on the board of directors. The participation of the Association of La Défense Users could have been a useful complement, as is the case in the development council. However, I fully understand the Government's reservations on this matter, and I thank Mr. Rupin and Ms. Hennion for having withdrawn their amendments in favour of the Government's amendment. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u162	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u163	The Republican Group supports Amendment No 18 of the Government, which we believe to be quite consistent and of common sense. The representation of the Association of La Défense Users on the Board of Directors would pose a risk of conflict of interest. As Guillaume Larrivé said, the concern for simplification should lead us to always bear in mind that there is the board of directors, on the one hand, and the development board, on the other. It might be appropriate to complete the logic of the Government's amendment and to provide for staff representation on the Development Council. At this stage, however, we will vote on the Government's amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u164	The committee has deleted Article 5. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No 17, which is intended to restore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u165	The aim of this amendment is to return to the legislator's initial desire to simplify the management of this large European business district and to bring the functioning of the decentralised local public establishment into line with the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. We do not share the view that the prefect's power to suspend the enforceability of Board decisions would be the relevant response to concerns about the proper functioning of public services. The responsibility for the proper functioning of local public services lies solely with the Paris La Défense public institution. The prerogatives of the prefect therefore do not seem to us to be relevant. Far from the idea of challenging the prefect's review of legality, which will be fully exercised on all decisions of the board of directors, and the presence of state officials and qualified persons on the board of directors. But, like honourable senators, we want to delete the words: "or the proper functioning of public services. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u166	[[At 19:10, Ms. Annie Genevard replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u168	The initial drafting of the bill provided that the prefect could request a second deliberation from the institution, where his decisions would entail a risk of harm to national interests or the proper functioning of public services. This latter ground was removed by the Senate, which considered it to be a review of the powers entrusted to the institution. Our committee has re-established it because, as I said in the general debate, this measure constitutes additional security to ensure that the decisions taken by the institution serve the general interest, in the light of the particular challenges posed by Defence, in particular in terms of public transport, services and places of life. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u169	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u170	The Government also expressed an unfavourable opinion, which would not surprise Ms. Le Grip. Senators, my former colleagues, had been very sensitive to the argument of the chair of the departmental council of the Hauts-de-Seine – too sensitive, perhaps, because I believe it is essential to find a balance, as I recalled earlier. In fact, the legislator had given specific powers to the State. We want the regional prefect to be able to suspend the binding nature of the decisions of the board of directors and ask for a second deliberation when these decisions clearly affect the proper functioning of public services, particularly in the field of urban transport – I think, for example, the Eole project. This measure is justified by the geographical location of the business district, its importance and its interpenetration with other territories. It does not in any case translate a form of suspicion...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u171	It looks like it, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u172	If that were the case, we would not face criticism from the left side of the House. We maintain this prerogative of the Prefect, because it is essential to find a balance in this matter. We never know what tomorrow will be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u173	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u174	Mr Minister, I do not want to be ambiguous: Members of the Republican Group support the continuation of the state presence on the Paris La Défense board of directors. That goes without saying, because the national interest is at stake. On the other hand, and this is our difference, we believe, that the control of the legality of the State must be exercised under the conditions of ordinary law. Since 1982, however, the common law requires that the review of legality be carried out no longer ex ante but ex post. It seems surprising to us that Paris La Défense is the only structure whose State would have the power to suspend a decision of the steering body. We are opposed to ex ante control, which reminds us more of pre-1982 practices and law than the new world you want us to enter. The common law is intended to apply: if the representative of the State considers that a decision so seriously disregards the general interest that its legality is at issue, it will then be up to the representative of the State to give his office under the control of legality, until he intends to refer the matter to the administrative court for a preliminary ruling. The device you are planning seems to us regressive and more worthy of Raymond Marcellin's old world than of President Macron's new world.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u175	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 2, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u176	Article 7 provides for the full ownership of the parking lots in the heritage of the EPADESA, which is equivalent to a free transfer of parking lots from the State to the Hauts-de-Seine Department, since the latter would be the majority on the board of directors of the new public establishment. We do not consider that there are any grounds of general interest justifying a free transfer of parking spaces. That is why we are calling for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u178	Unfavorable. The aim of this amendment is to restore the exclusion of car parks from transfers of property to the future establishment. As I pointed out in committee, the ownership of these car parks is that of EPADESA, which is logical in the context of its task as an operator. It is therefore appropriate to stick to the text adopted by the Senate on this point. In addition, the State will continue to participate in the planning and management of La Défense, through two qualified persons whom it may appoint on the board of directors of the institution and through the checks carried out by the prefect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u180	I am very discreetly expressing a wisdom opinion, as that is the position I have defended before the Senate and I am used to remaining consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u181	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u182	We will vote against this amendment tabled by Mrs Obono. It is the translation of a legitimate debate on which we have considered during the hearings. We wanted to get to the end of the spirit of simplification and decentralisation: parking lots should therefore be entrusted to this new public establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u183	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u184	If I do not hope to convince you, I shall return once again to the question of conventions. First of all, I would like to correct a point made by the rapporteur: there are already conventions. EPADESA intervenes on the city of Nanterre through two conventions. To take up the arguments that have already been opposed to me, these are IONs which are the subject of agreements signed with the city of Nanterre – this could be the case with the neighbouring cities – and which set out objectives and a budgetary timetable. The purpose of this amendment is to bring the order into conformity with the enabling law, since the legislator has invited the Government to organize "the substitution of this establishment to the public planning establishment of La Défense Seine Arche". We had a state public institution, we will now have a local public institution. It seems essential to us, since the text distinguishes between the exclusive zones of intervention – the historical perimeter – and the non-exclusive zones, which cover the non-historical perimeter, to include in the text the obligation of conventions providing for a timetable, a budget and objectives, in particular for the non-exclusive zones of that public institution, which would ensure the continuity of the conventions provided for in the framework of the EPADESA. This is the subject of this amendment. While I have listened to all the arguments, I absolutely do not understand the blocking of the establishment of such conventions. However, this seems to me to be the case, especially in view of what we have previously stated in terms of minimum consensus and partnership in planning operations. I repeat: I do not understand your obstinacy to refuse these conventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u186	Mr Little, I do not understand that you do not understand, simply because the conventions that already exist between EPADESA and the city of Nanterre will not fall.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u187	Yes, they will!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u188	The development perimeter of La Défense Seine Arche, which we have defined in the committee of laws, is not exclusive: it will therefore allow the development. Perhaps the minister will be able to explain further, since it was the Government that drafted the order that we amended to that effect, because it was up to us – it was our choice – to clarify the issue of the perimeter. I repeat: these conventions, which currently exist, will continue to exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u189	I'm sorry, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u190	That is, for me, the meaning of this article. The current project for the Seine Arche area will be taken over by the future establishment. There is no question of this project: in any case, such a challenge was never sent to us during the fifteen hearings that we conducted. The colleagues present at all these hearings will also be able to assure you. I'm sorry I couldn't convince you on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u191	You sign a blank cheque to people who refuse pluralism and you think it will work! You're very naive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u192	You are entering again into political considerations. Here we are working on decentralization – this is the case for two years of different majorities, ours, which is new, as well as the previous one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u193	I would ask you to conclude, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u194	On the majority of these benches, we agreed that it was useful to listen and look for a balanced text after two years of discussion and writing. We have amended it in this direction: it is now balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u195	He is very far from the intentions of departure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u196	That is why I am voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u197	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u198	The Government's opinion is unfavourable for the reasons I have already outlined. Mr Little, it is not a question of obstinacy. We are in the context of a merger that leads to a new governance, without calling into question all the conventions and agreements concluded by the two merging structures. You will tell me that developments are possible in the future and that it will be possible to return to these conventions by means of votes. So it is not because there is fusion that everything is flattened: on the contrary. All the conventions will be repeated, which, I repeat, does not rule out the risk of a new vote. However, it would have consequences that you would rightly denounce.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u199	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Constance Le Grip, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u200	As I have already announced during the general discussion, the group Les Républicains will vote in favour of this bill ratifying the order of 3 May 2017 establishing the Paris La Défense public institution. As we have pointed out, we believe in the attractiveness and outreach of this European business centre, especially since there is currently an exceptional card to play because of Brexit in particular. The important assets of such a centre should therefore be valued. Simplification and decentralization, which are the two main lines of this ordinance, will enable us to develop and improve the full potential of this business centre. We have expressed some reservations or differences and tried to promote a real and permanent search for decentralization: what has been given from the other should not be taken up with one hand. Nevertheless, without prejudging the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee, we will vote for the ratification of this order: as soon as this is in our country's interest, as soon as specific and concrete provisions are proposed, we are positive and constructive. It is possible to belong to the Republican Group and to vote for a bill introduced by the Government when it seems to be in the right direction. In this way we want to show clarity, pragmatism and confidence in the work that we have been able to do together this afternoon in a spirit, I repeat, quite constructive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u201	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u202	The MODEM Group is very much in favour of this text for a simple reason: it establishes a real decentralization in an important area, on an important perimeter. We believe that this transition to decentralization is essential. However, I would like to object to comments which, during the debate, were intended to suggest that, because there is a relatively clear majority in the future public institution, the latter would be tainted by illegitimacy. I understand that we are in favour of proportionality – I am even quite sensitive to this argument. Let us not forget, however, that our local and regional authorities are governed by a more or less moderate majority principle. By giving power to a determined majority in public institutions, we are part of the common law tradition of the organisation of local and regional authorities. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and LR groups]] Let us not therefore investigate, on this basis, a false trial against the leaders of the departmental majority of the Hauts-de-Seine. If they have the majority, it is because the voters have granted it to them. They assume their responsibilities in the system which prevails for all the territorial authorities of the Republic. Let us not turn this reality into a trial of unjustified intent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u203	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u204	[[Smile]] I have not yet indicated what the vote of the GDR Group would be – hope is alive!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u205	Vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u206	At the end of this debate, I announce that we will vote against this bill. However, that was not our intention of departure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u207	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u208	Contrary to what some of our colleagues have said, we believe that this reform is necessary: at a particular stage in La Défense's life, it is justified by the difficulties caused by the coexistence of two institutions, by the maturity of the project and by the new challenges facing the business district. The intentions originally announced were rather a good basis for work: to focus on La Défense's perimeter, to respond to all the challenges, both in terms of diversification and maintenance of the neighbourhood, and to address skill-sharing issues that prevented good governance. The order that we are proposed to ratify is far removed from these intentions. It merges two institutions into a structure whose main purpose is not to work towards better governance of the business district, but to extend its scope of jurisdiction to areas adjacent to but outside La Défense. Moreover, it is not normal to entrust the management of a public institution as large as that of Paris La Défense to a single political majority – by saying this, I do not make a bad trial, I do not engage in a small political debate, especially since I have managed territories of a size equivalent to that of La Défense and therefore have some experience in this field. On the contrary, consensus must be built. Mr. Bourlanges, whose erudition I respect, claims that the order merely repeats the usual rule concerning the governance of this type of institution. That's not true! In public institutions of this kind, respect for pluralism has always been imposed: the majority from a local community that is a member of the public institution is expressed in a plurality of political movements. This is particularly the case for the Établissement public immobilière de la région Île-de-France, which is the closest public establishment to the Paris La Défense public establishment on a region-wide basis. So I'm denouncing an anomaly. Without wishing to make a trial of intent to the right of the Hauts-de-Seine, I cannot confuse the right of our country with that of this department, which has often been singularized, in different ways, especially in the management of the local authorities where it is the majority. The municipalities where real estate speculation is the strongest, where the law on urban solidarity and renewal – the SRU law – is the least respected and where business has accumulated over the last thirty years around various real estate programs are still extremely concentrated in the Hauts-de-Seine department. This historical observation should have prompted us to show a little more vigilance and to introduce more plurality in the management of this future public institution. In the Île-de-France region, territorial and social segregation was such that a former Minister of the Republic, Mr Chevènement, feared that the inaction of the public authorities would lead to a genuine "space apartheid". A former Prime Minister who now sits on the benches of the La République group, Manuel Valls, made the same observation. By refusing to make Paris La Défense a public institution at the service of greater solidarity and a better distribution of wealth within the Île-de-France region, you may lead to an even more abusive concentration of wealth on one side of the Paris region, that is, in the West of Paris, to increase segregations and thus to distance yourself from the general interest. This bill was an opportunity to reduce these disparities and improve the situation. We were in favour of the idea of starting. By setting up conventions and providing for a little more pluralism, we could have defended the general interest within the framework of consensus to be built at each stage of the development of this public institution. You turned it down, and that's too bad. That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u209	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u210	Unsurprisingly, our group will vote against this bill. All the Members present in this House have acknowledged that the order that we are proposing to ratify is not limited to a technical merger, motivated by organisational reasons, but involves a political and geo-economic issue. We are in deep disagreement with the choice to position ourselves, once again, in the game of international competition and in this race at least so-called, both in terms of controlling financial flows and in terms of the integrity and supervision of finance. Week after week, month after month, we see a limitless finance, without faith or law. However, this debate could have enabled national representation to become aware of what is being played out and send a signal at European level by showing that it was possible to create a truly attractive financial pole, but within the framework of regulated finance and in the service of the economy. Moreover, as we have explained, you have opted for a method of decentralization which seems to us to undermine the place and fundamental role that the State should play. Finally, we denounce certain shortcomings which have also been noted by the Court of Auditors. The warning given by the latter should, however, have aroused the interest of the national representative and made him aware of the need to have all the elements in his hand to decide, which had not been the case. We will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u212	The next speaker is Mr Pacôme Rupin, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u213	Apart from the position of the group La France insoumée, which Danièle Obono has just confirmed, this project of decentralization and simplification of the management and the development of the neighborhood of La Défense raises a consensus in our assembly. In this context of quasi-consensus, we call for a vote on this bill. The balance between the different stakeholders was discussed. I hear Mr. Little's concern that we decide, by ratifying this order, to make the Hauts-de-Seine department the leader in the management of this public institution. It is now up to the heads of the Hauts-de-Seine department to show method, to work towards consensus-building, to guarantee pluralism, in order to ensure that all stakeholders are around the table and work towards the general interest. In a way, there is still an arbitrator, the state, whose important work over the past half century must be welcomed in order to develop this territory and make it the first European business district. Of course, La Défense has shortcomings and its organisation deserves to be improved on certain points: that is why it is urgent to ratify this order, which will enable the investment to be revived and the neighbourhood to be renovated. Today, however, the state remains around the table, and the prefect can alert us in case the collaboration between the different parties does not go in the direction of the general interest that we want. For all these reasons, the La République group is in the process of voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u214	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u215	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u216	I would like to thank, in a few words, all my colleagues who participated in our public debate and in the numerous hearings that we have conducted. I am thinking in particular of Mrs Le Grip, Mr Larrivée, Mr Bourlanges, Mr Rupin, Mrs Hennion, and of course Mr Little. I had a little hope, Mr. Little... We have had quality exchanges: I think they will continue. You can count on me to be vigilant about the proper implementation of the ordinance that we have just ratified. I'll pay great attention to it. I also want to reply to Mrs Obono, who has had to leave our Chamber. I hope to calm his concerns by noting an encouraging sign: it is envisaged that the seat of the European Banking Authority will be installed in the territory of La Défense.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u217	It would take more to reassure Mrs. Obono!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u218	I would particularly like to thank the La République en marche group, in particular my colleagues Pacôme Rupin and Christine Hennion, for the work done. We have made progress together on this consensus text, in an objective spirit and, as Mr Rupin has pointed out, in the interests of the general interest that we all have here. Thank you very much, Minister, for listening to the developments that we have wished to bring to the text in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM, LR and LC groups]] Finally, I would like to thank in particular the secretariat of the Law Committee for its valuable support and for the precise legislative work carried out on this order. This work has been long and fruitful; It has now come to an end in this vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-27-O1071.u219	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Discussion of the motion for a resolution to promote the symbols of the European Union. The meeting is adjourned.
