ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill by Mr Philippe Latomb and several of his colleagues on the residence of the child in the event of parental separation (No. 307, 416). We are dealing with the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u2	In the general debate, Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration, ladies and gentlemen, the subjects of society in this House are by nature difficult to deal with. When one deals with the human, his sensitivity, his experience, or even his culture, his education, one cannot avoid the pitfall of passion. There is no doubt, therefore, that such a text, which deals with a subject as sensitive as the interests of the child, cannot be unanimous in our ranks. Should he, by the way? Nothing is less certain, as I know that we all have to move forward with caution, modesty, and tolerance. To paraphrase a famous maxim, I would say that we are going to a difficult subject, but with clear principles. At the forefront of these principles is the one that forges our political movement: the ideal of progress. This has been said many times: what makes the virtue of a law is its ability to accompany the natural movements of a society. The evolution of the law is a strong signal that reflects the changes in society. At the same time, it opens up new possibilities. The legislator must listen to them in order to live up to their aspirations. In 2017, one reality must be taken into account: one in three divorces separates. In half of the cases, there are children in the middle. Today, therefore, we need to change our law in this area, because society is changing. If I can afford this term, then there is only one obsession: the interests of the child, always the interests of the child, and nothing but the interests of the child. That is what guided all the reflection on this text. We have heard the opinions expressed by each other, consulted the multiple studies, sometimes contradictory, listened to the interventions of specialists – psychiatrists, judges, lawyers. The purpose of this text is not to determine who is right or who is wrong. It is simply a matter of setting three objectives in a dispassionate manner. The first objective is to preserve the interests of the child by enshrining the child's right to maintain a relationship with both parents. Many child psychiatrists, psychologists and teachers of education sciences thus stress the need for both parents to be present, the permanence of the link with them in order to preserve the balance of the child. By laying down the principle of the dual residence of the child, the proposed law thus makes it possible to fully implement the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by France on 7 August 1990, and whose articles 5, 9 and 18 recognize the right of the child to be reared by his or her parents in order to promote his or her development. The second objective of this text is to better translate the symbolism of parental equality. One parent should not feel superior to the other or exclude the other. The proposed reform is therefore in keeping with the Act of 4 March 2002 on parental authority, which lays down the principles of co-parentality and co-responsibility. Dual residence allows parents to become aware that they have the same responsibility and duties vis-à-vis their child, thus confirming the equality of each parent with regard to their rights and, above all, their duties vis-à-vis the child. If the marital couple disappears, the parental couple remains. The third objective of this text is to change the perception of the social role of each parent. Despite a slow but steady increase in the assumptions of alternating residence – 17% of court decisions – and residence in the father – 12% – the daily burden of children still weighs heavily on women. In this way, some choices may be difficult to make given social pressure, such as giving up the demand for majority custody for the mother. Thus, by laying down the principle of dual residence, the purpose of the proposed law is to change the perception of the social role of each parent and thereby promote equality between women and men. Most of our European neighbours have laws establishing alternate residence of children as a principle in cases of parental separation. In Scandinavian countries, particularly Sweden, a law of this nature was passed in 1983, so that today 88 per cent of children are in alternate residence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u4	They're back!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u5	In the Netherlands, Germany and Italy, the figures are around 40%.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u6	In Denmark, the opposite is true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u7	Belgium introduced the principle of alternate residence eleven years ago; The alternative residence rate has increased from 20% to 40%, or even 60% in some regions. In none of the countries mentioned the fears raised by the protestors of the alternating residence have become realities. With a rate of 17%, France is very pale.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u8	And why is that?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u9	A real work has been done in committee, and here I would like to warmly thank the rapporteur for the text, Vincent Bru, who, despite the time constraints inherent in this House, has been able to do a substantive work, to audition many personalities and organisations. He was accompanied in his task by Mrs. Abadie. The work done in committee has been real and the text seems to me today, before our debate this evening, on the road to balance. Indeed, several points are anchored there. First of all, the interests of the child are taken into account at all stages: the decision, the convention, the "arm passage", when it can appear as difficult, which protects the child no matter what. Secondly, the family judge, whose role is absolutely essential, remains the master of the decision, the master of the child's residence. Finally, the text provides details of the difficult cases which justify a refusal by the judge. With regard to the arguments that the text would not solve the problems of family allowances, of contributing to the upbringing and maintenance of the child or of housing, it must be clear that the situation of shared residence did exist. These questions already exist and are already being answered. I am convinced that the debate must take place. He really has to keep in line the interest of the child ; always. We all agree here that the child is not a trophy. Situations in which the conflict between the two parents takes place with the child must cease. By establishing the principle of shared residence as a baseline, we will avoid this translation of the conflict into the child. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] We may have an opportunity tonight to bring down some blockages. We have the opportunity to reinforce the principle that parental authority is shared between the two parents. We have the opportunity to preserve the balance of the child by maintaining his or her relationship with both parents. It is because the members of the MODEM and related groups want to seize this opportunity, this opportunity and see this possibility realized that they are today defending this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u10	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in listening to the speeches made by the speakers who spoke just now, I wondered whether this bill was really useful and justified. As if we could by law and by changing the place of residence of the child solve the problems that arise for divorced couples on his custody! Personally, I don't think so. The subject of the child's residence in the event of divorce, of course, leaves no one indifferent. And because: this is a situation that we have certainly all been confronted with one day, directly or through our loved ones. And we have received numerous requests from the people of our ridings on this subject. The determination of the residence of children in the event of separation of parents is one of these subjects of society that go beyond the usual divisions. It affects the intimateness of every Member of Parliament, and I cannot imagine, as on other matters of society, unanimous votes in our groups. These subjects of society appeal not only to conscience, or even to ethics, but also to our experience and that of our entourage. Whatever positions will be expressed, and whatever the outcome of this discussion, this bill is important because it raises a complex issue that cannot be overlooked. For several years now, separations and divorces have increased sharply. This situation, which is known to be painful for each parent but especially for children, concerns almost one in three couples in France, and one in two in Île-de-France. As a result, there are more and more children facing the question of the determination of their residence by the family judge. INSEE estimates their number at 1.5 million. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen: there are 1.5 million children whose place of life is intended to be determined by law and by the judge. That is nothing but annoyance, and we must take stock of the responsibility that the legislator has today when it is proposed to amend the provisions of the Civil Code. In the current state of law, you have recalled, in the event of separation of parents, the principle is twofold: the child's residence may be fixed at the home of one of them or alternately at the home of each of them. Article 373-2-9 of the Civil Code provides that residence may be determined by agreement of the parents or by decision of the judge. In the absence of parental consent, the judge may order an alternate residence on a temporary basis, the duration of which shall be determined by the judge. The author of the proposed law before us today proposes a new wording of section 373-2-9 of the Civil Code by laying down the principle that the residence of the child is fixed at the home of each parent according to the frequency and duration determined by agreement between the parents or by the judge. This principle of balance of parental domiciles leaves the possibility for the judge to lay down separate arrangements to that of strict equality of time and if necessary to introduce transitional or temporary provisions. The author of the bill also hopes that this modernization of family law will make it possible to shorten proceedings in order to lighten the current overload of the courts. And, of course, it introduces an exception to the basic rule of double residence. Let me tell you that in the case of divorce, when the parents agree, the absence of a dual residence does not necessarily pose a problem, because then the agreement concerns the alternate residence or the residence of one of them. A problem arises, however, in the event of disagreement. In this case, making an exception to the rule will result, because of the perversity of the system, in people using this exception to win the case. With such drafting, rather than settling, the situation will get worse. In your opinion, the rapporteur, this bill must be a symbol designed to make every parent aware of his or her responsibility for the upbringing of children. But let us not be naive, ladies and gentlemen! Do you really believe that a piece of legislation is enough to make parents aware of their responsibility in this matter? I doubt it! It is probably a matter of culture, pedagogy and society, but we must be naive – let me tell you, colleagues in the MODEM Group – to believe that a piece of legislation will change things! I will mention some figures from a study on the residence of children of separated parents, published in 2013 by the Ministry of Justice, concerning 6042 final decisions of family judges concerning 9399 children. It provides an interesting insight into child care and possible differences between parents. According to the study, 80% of parents agree on the children's residence. In 17% of cases, they opt for an alternate residence. The judge almost always validates the agreement between the parents. The cases of parents expressing different requests about the residence of their children account for only 10 per cent of divorce cases. In situations of disagreement, the judge decides to reside with the mother in 63% of cases and with the father in 24% of cases. It should be noted that the judge decides on a residence with the father twice as often as in the case of an agreement between the parents, which results in only 10% of the cases. On the other hand, in the event of disagreement, the judge more frequently grants the other parent a broader traditional access right. In the case of alternating residence, 12 per cent of the cases are decided if both parents disagree; it is rarely so if it is not requested by at least one of the parents. Furthermore, this investigation conducted by the Ministry of Justice shows that the judge has more frequently ordered investigative or mediation measures in the event of disagreement between the parents. Judges also obviously take into account the age of the child. For children under 5 years of age, residence with the mother will be preferred; for children between 5 and 10 years of age, it is rather the alternative residence that is preferred; for children over 10 years of age, and especially from 15 years of age, the residence of the father is more often pronounced. In conclusion, the study conducted by the Ministry of Justice revealed that 93 per cent of fathers' requests were met by judges' decisions. For mothers, this figure is in the order of 96%, which is comparable. While we understand the will of our colleague Latombe and share his desire to see fathers occupy their full place with their children, and more broadly to improve the division of labour within the couple and to strengthen equality between men and women, we are, however, reserved for the drafting of the text and its timeliness. This subject must be the subject of a thorough discussion between parents' associations, magistrates and professionals in the field of children's and couples' mediation. Above all, it must truly take into account the facts in a dispassionate and objective manner and maintain the interests of the child as its primary objective, which we all have in mind. In addition, should the future parents not be made more accountable for the complementarity of their roles with their children and for the need to maintain this link throughout their lives? For the reasons I have just mentioned, the Members of the IDU Group, Action and Independents will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u12	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u13	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are addressing today involves very deep and very intimate ressources of everyone, who is confronted with it as a result of a failure of his love life. We are therefore aware that we are dealing with a particular issue, with complex, passionate and sometimes confused dimensions, which requires us to divest ourselves of simplistic postures. This subject has a twofold aspect. On the one hand, small beings under construction, therefore fragile, need to attach themselves to their two parents and must enjoy the best possible respect for their requirements; On the other hand, society must ensure the protection of the weakest. In our country there is a real distortion between the texts, the affirmations of principle and the reality of the magnitude of the concrete situations. Both legislative and regulatory texts have made unquestionable progress over the years. Since the enactment of the Act of 4 March 2002, the joint exercise of parental authority by parents has been the rule. Maintaining personal relations between the child and his or her parents is not a faculty but an obligation. Parents, therefore, need to inform each other about the organization of the child's life and make important decisions about the child. On the other hand, the proportion of divorces by mutual consent has increased considerably. Since the enactment of the law of 18 November 2016, it is no longer even necessary to appear before a judge to divorce: in the event of agreement between the parties, an agreement signed by their lawyers and deposited in the rank of notaries minutes should suffice. The administrations – the primary school – have incorporated this shared parental authority into their working methods by systematically informing both parents about their child's school life and consulting them both before any important decisions are made. These principles and precautions may be insufficient in the eyes of many parents, especially fathers who continue to consider that they are treated unequally by the courts and that separation of the couple too often deprives them of their child. They consider that the residence of the child in both parents is a condition for the exercise of their parental function, even compensation for the bankruptcy of the couple and an official recognition of their status as a parent, on an equal basis with their former spouse. Men and women are keenly asserting their rights to custody and access to double domiciliation. The voices that are currently being heard are rather discordant. For example, some feminist advocacy groups argue that fathers' rights always prevail in the event of a financial dispute. Spokespersons of women's rights movements protest mainly against the delay or failure of fathers to pay maintenance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u15	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u16	Indeed, some fathers feel that the judge's decisions unfairly favour women and deprive them of adequate access to their children, even if they respect their parental and financial obligations. There is truth in the arguments of each camp, but family law cannot serve as a battlefield for gender warfare. Adults of both sexes make choices and are masters of themselves, not children. A priori, therefore, should be set out some principles that are valid in all cases: children have the right to have unimpeded access to both parents; the custody of children and the right of access should be regarded as distinct from the obligation to provide for them, which must be fully respected; the sex of the parents should not affect the decision on custody and access; Above all, children have the right to love both parents and both parents have the right to love their children, and it is up to us to respect the three actors of separation: the child, the mother and the father. The improvement of the agreement between ex-spouses must be accompanied, or even included in the extended family. The arbitrary or unreasonable refusal of one parent to grant children access to the other parent should immediately result in a severe legal sanction, except of course in cases of protection against a violent parent. However, the bill before us does not address all the issues raised. She simply deals with the child's residence, which is a problem among others. Alternative custody, a method of joint exercise of parental authority, once viewed with distrust, has progressed significantly for several years. In all proceedings – divorces and separations of unmarried parents – 17% of children of divorced parents lived in alternate residence in 2012, according to the latest figures available from the Ministry of Justice. 73 per cent of children resided with their mothers and 7 per cent resided with their fathers. In 80 per cent of cases, parents agreed on the children's place of residence. The proportion of children living under alternating custody is still increasing, depending on divorce procedures alone and even more so, depending on divorce procedures by mutual consent, for which it is close to 30 per cent. Thus, the rights of fathers are not systematically violated by judges, which is normal: for several years, everyone can see that fathers engage much more with their children than before. Therefore, society must endorse this new state of mind in the event of separation. However, legislation on the child's residence will not solve all the problems raised. In fact, alternating custody can be difficult to implement if the residences of both parents are distant from each other. It also requires good cooperation between parents. In addition, children under the age of 3 need a privileged figure to ensure their safety. Judges are therefore often quite reluctant to grant such custody because the life of the child, who needs benchmarks, can be destabilized. We therefore welcomed this bill with a certain reservation. At first glance, it seemed to force the reluctant parent to accept the alternate residence or even punish it if he refused it, which is contrary to the approach taken over the past several years to resolve the inevitable conflicts that arise in the event of separation. I would like to remind our new colleagues that our House has dealt with this subject very thoroughly a few years ago. Indeed, on 27 June 2014, we adopted a bill tabled by several members of the Socialist, Republican and Citizen Group on the problems that arise during the separation of a couple: definition of parental authority, possession of the family booklet, non-representation of children... This fairly complete text has not yet been placed on the Orders of the Day of the Senate. It is curious that MODEM preferred to leave it in abeyance to focus on only one of its aspects of the text and present a small model, if I may say so. The previous bill was much more worked on than the one we are debating today. If some of its provisions are repeated, I do not understand very well the point of starting from scratch by neglecting the considerable work done earlier. Moreover, the original version of this bill was not very satisfactory. The work carried out in the Law Commission has made it possible to improve it. Of course, I welcome the work of both elected officials and administrators, which has made it possible to improve the drafting of the text. But this does not tell us why the debate on all cases should be relaunched without more information than in 2014.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u17	We're not in 2014 anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u18	In the absence of an impact assessment, it is not known whether particular difficulties have occurred since then. Nor is the effect of the text on family allowances known, nor is it likely that the provisions of the law will further impoverish single-parent families. It is not known what its tax implications are and how to protect women, who are often victims of violence. In other words, if this information were not available, it would have been necessary to refer the text back to committee. On this subject, it is important to recall that it is not our responsibility to rule on a possible right of the father or mother to have the child domiciled at home. We must legislate according to the interests of the child. That is why the role of the judge is essential. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] According to Montesquieu, it is necessary to touch the laws "only with a trembling hand". This is even more true with regard to children and the complex problems that arise from the situations in question. That is why, in the absence of the inclusion of the existing text on the Senate's agenda or its referral to committee, the members of the New Left Group will abstain from this bill, the issue of which is limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u19	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, for decades, the determination of the child's residence in the event of parental separation has been strongly debated. This subject is a source of controversy and mediated actions by angry parents against the judicial institution. Since 2002, the Civil Code has offered parents and the judge a choice: it is possible to establish the child's residence either alternately at the home of each parent or at the home of one of them. This general principle of choice was decided as it was widely established that no form of residence prevailed over another. Its determination is reviewed on a case-by-case basis according to multiple criteria – parental agreement, age of the child, proximity to residences. Current legislation, however imperfect it may be, in contexts of great suffering on both sides, has the merit of leaving a wide margin of appreciation to parents and the judge in the best interests of the child and of not imposing, as a matter of principle, automatic and undifferentiated arrangements for alternative residence. The bill we are considering today goes back to this principle of choice to impose a mode, that of alternating residence. We are opposed to it for several reasons. The statistical data produced by the Ministry of Justice indicate that alternating residence is not the most requested mode of custody by parents. Only 25% of them choose it, and some of them return to their choice in the first few months. In the case of agreement between both parents, which is fortunately the case in 80% of separations, judges in 99.8% of cases confirm the co-parental decision. In cases of disagreement between parents, the judge fixes residence with the father twice as often as in cases of agreement. So what good would it be to go back to this general principle, which responds in the vast majority to the demands of the parents and to the best interests of the child? Why do you want to impose a custody system that 75% of separating parents don't choose? This does not seem to us to be serious or even dangerous. Communist MPs consider that alternating residence should not become automatic. It must remain an opportunity to organize the joint exercise of parental authority, in the same way as domiciliation in one of the parents. Its interest must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the circumstances of each parent and, above all, the needs of the child. However, it is very difficult in cases of parental separation to determine a priori whether the child has an interest in living alternately with his or her parents or, as a matter of priority, with one of them. The interests of the child require that the situation be taken into account in all its complexity, in every detail. Paedopsychiatrists, psychologists and psychiatrists have recently expressed their "great concern" about this bill in a text addressed to MPs. These children's professionals warn against the risk of disorders in children under 6 years of age. Admittedly, several amendments have been adopted in committee to make this bill more acceptable. Some advocates of the text even consider that it has been emptied of its substance. It would now, according to the rapporteur, aim to simply give "a direction" towards co-parentality. In fact, the title has been changed. From the "principle of alternating custody of children", one has moved to "Residence of the child in the event of separation of the parents". In spite of the changes adopted, this text, which is poorly structured, maintains the establishment of a general principle of double domicile in each parent, i.e. alternate residence, while residence at the home of one of the parents becomes the exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u21	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u22	In the event of opposition between parents, proposing such a solution would only increase opportunities for conflict, and would lead to situations that were particularly dangerous for women and children. Finally, I would like to point out that the establishment of double domicile in principle will have an impact on the economic resources of the home, in particular on maintenance and on the sharing of family allowances. Women are often economically dependent on their spouses. They are the ones who suffer most of the consequences of separation and are plunged into greater insecurity when they have to take care of their child. If the sharing of family allowances is not illogical in the case of alternating custody, it has significant perverse effects. In addition to the economic precariousness in which women most often find themselves in the event of separation, there is a reduction in family benefits, which further penalizes them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u24	Above all, it is known that women can experience great difficulties in obtaining support. Also the only emergency today, raised by many associations, is to guarantee the payment of maintenance payments. In order to do so, sanctions must be tightened if they are not to be paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u25	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u26	This is where the real dysfunction of the law lies. There are sometimes more than 50 per cent of single-parent families in my riding's large working-class neighbourhoods. Non-payment of maintenance is a major problem, highlighted by all associations and social workers. This proposal has been prepared in haste, without any serious review or study. The changes made in committee and the change in rhetoric are evidence of this impreparation. This symbolic bill, designed to reflect the equality of parents, is also intended, as the explanatory memorandum points out, to modernize family law, shorten procedures and reduce them, in order to lighten the burden on the courts currently overburdening them. In view of these considerations, we are far from considering the interests of the child! Above all, it should be stressed that the exercise of parental authority does not imply alternating residence and that co-parentality does not take place after separation. Parents who have never really exercised parental authority jointly during their common life will certainly not find in the alternate residence the miracle solution to co-parentality, which is a duty before being a right. For all these reasons the Communist deputies will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u28	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Law Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "States Parties shall respect the right of a child separated from both parents or one of them to maintain regular personal relations and direct contact with both parents, unless this is contrary to the best interests of the child. » Article 9(3) of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child marks and legally legitimizes the co-responsibility of parents in the upbringing of their children, except where this would be contrary to their best interests. That is the whole dimension that we wanted to give to this bill. I would like to clarify to the national representative the methods that have been employed in the preparation of this text. This is important, given the annoyances expressed by some of our colleagues. To judge a piece of legislation at the sole prism of his personal situation is not always an asset in the performance of our duties. Personally, I was part of a white leaf, having no prejudice over the manner of residence of children of separated parents. In order to feed our legislative work, we have, together with the rapporteur, read numerous reports, met with experts, associations of different sensitivities, family judges and lawyers, and received many testimonies. Let us begin by putting an end to the confusion that has been made about this MODEM bill. The original title, "Principle of Alternative Child Care", did not correspond to the content. No, this text does not introduce equal time sharing or automation of the alternate residence. He does not treat the time that a child owes, should, or would like to spend with each of his parents. This text deals with co-parentality. Parents' co-responsibility in the upbringing of their child can deteriorate from separation – a quantifiable fact, with qualifiable consequences. A few figures can make us aware of this. If I say, "71 per cent, 19 per cent and 10 per cent," you can imagine that 19 per cent is not the time that the child spends with his or her mother and 71 per cent is not the share of children who usually reside with their father as a result of separation. Today, 80% of separated couples agree on the child's residence; 71 per cent of them decide by mutual agreement, without recourse to a judge's arbitration, that their child will be habitually residing with their mother. A mother who, statistically, will not be able to repeat her life as well as her former spouse; a mother who will not always have the same promotion as her former spouse; a mother who may not find a job near her home. It has become essential to assign the same responsibilities to both the father and the mother and not to place their co-responsibility on one of them. Of the separated couples, only 19% will decide on alternate residence. This figure tends to increase, slowly but surely, reflecting the increasing involvement of fathers in their children's daily lives, both before and after separation. In 10 per cent of cases, parents decide that the child will go to his or her father's home. The vast majority of separations take place in the understanding; Only 10% of parents compete on the child's residence. Mothers then take children in 63 per cent of cases, fathers in 24 per cent of cases, and the choice of alternate residence is made in 12 per cent of cases. It is not masculine to say that family judges follow the natural trend of families, but with a little more balance between father and mother. Explained in this way, the numbers shock less; We all have prejudices about the responsibility of parents for children. Children need both parents, although at different frequencies depending on age; the involvement of both parents remains necessary. Men, in all situations, are less assigned the residence of their child – the figures attest to this. It is essential to try to restore a balance. It is not anti-feminist to ask this question: why can't men take more care of their children after divorce or separation? No, this bill does not introduce automation or equal time sharing, contrary to what has been said. The main objective is to remove from the Civil Code the concept of "access and accommodation", which is outrageous for parents and which no longer corresponds to the organization of new forms of family. If there were doubts about the title, neither the explanatory memorandum nor the original text provided for the division of residence according to an equal distribution of time between the parents. This law provides for a double administrative residence of the child in each of his or her parents, who remain decision-makers on the modalities of frequency and duration. It would not be good for the legislator to decide how long the child spends with his or her parents, because it is up to the parents and the judge to decide and adapt to his or her needs, depending on his or her age, the distance from the homes and all the criteria listed in article 373-2-11 of the Civil Code. Consideration should also be given to the violence that one parent would inflict on the other, a crucial element already taken into account in the civil code and by the family court. If these serious issues are not addressed in this bill, they are not reinforced. And although there is still a lot to improve on this, this is not the subject of this text. A broader text could have been preferred, incorporating other elements, such as the status of the stepparent. I would like to recall that this double residence will in no way alter the ancillary administrative and legal arrangements arising from alternating residence, such as tax regulations. On the other hand, the work in committee has ensured that the family judge will keep his or her hands on the procedures for exercising parental authority in cases where the interests of the child are not respected, both in terms of frequency and duration and in terms of the residence itself. The residence would become double, regardless of the time spent with his parents. Thus, a child who spends every other weekend with his or her mother would still have double domiciliation. It is then that we would erase the notion of a parent's "right of access and accommodation", yet in full possession of his or her parental authority. This concept no longer has its place in our present society and our positive law must adapt to the changes of our time. No, the aim is not to promote the equality of fathers and mothers. The only compass of the working Republic group was the interest of the child. The judge was thus handed over to the system centre, the ultimate guarantor of the child's interest, both in the short term and in the long term. So what does this bill bring? A symbolic contribution that could ease tensions when parents are separated. It may be symbolic, but for some parents, it means a lot. One of our fellow citizens understood this very well and explained it to me in an e-mail: "The question of residence is important: it is about giving equal dignity to both parents. It can only be seen as a symbolic scope, but symbols and words are important and important levers of societal change. Because the current dichotomy between residence – alternating or not – and the right of access and accommodation is generating judicial wars, whose victims are children. It is likely that some attacks before the courts are aimed only at trying to remove the dignity of the other parent, devalue him or her, by relegating him or her to the status of an underparent in whom the children do not reside. The removal of this devalorization in terms would remove or alleviate some of these attacks, for the greater benefit of children, whose parents will be somewhat less pushed to war by the judicial machinery. Because the success of this bill would already be a step forward, and any progress is good. » [[Applause on many benches in the REM group and on the benches in the MODEM group]] The La République en marche group supports this proposal, as it enshrines the right of a child to maintain regular personal relations and direct contact with both parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u30	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are today considering a proposal for a law on alternate residence. There is no doubt that this is a very delicate text, since it affects the situation of children after the separation of their parents. Behind this text are particularly complicated, often painful, family stories. Behind the words we will use, there are people who are very difficult to live in separation, distance, conflict. And throughout our debates, we cannot ignore the reaction of some fathers, who express their anger to make their unbearable separation heard from their children. Nor will we be able to ignore the difficult material conditions in which mothers raise their children, nor to stifle the fears of these women who are victims of violence. At no time will we be able to forget the children who, in spite of them, may be taken hostage to a separation they did not want. All these precautions are the ones we should have taken before we addressed a subject that relates to education and family ties. Unfortunately, they were not taken. In wanting to change the civil code with forced march, you have at least managed to provoke an impressive lifting of shields in recent days, whose importance we have been able to measure through all the emails that have been addressed to us, in particular by child psychiatrists, who have constantly warned us, or feminist associations, afraid by the risk that mothers will be further disadvantaged. It should be noted that this lifting of shields comes as we look at the first societal text of the legislature. While the subjects of society have created profound divisions during the previous quinquennium, within our hemicycle, but above all within our society, we have a bitter feeling that no teaching has been drawn from these unfortunate experiences. On the contrary, we find from the first societal text the arguments that have been served to us over the last five years, starting with that of modernity, without knowing very well what this concept covers, the most important being undoubtedly to claim to be modern, as illustrated by this sentence taken from the explanatory statement of the bill and brandy such as a leitmotiv: "It is a matter of modernising our law". Second argument: equality. The explanatory statement of the bill, as well as the text of the report, are clear: the aim is to translate equality between parents. Once again, we can only see the inability to think together equality and difference, to articulate equality and differences. At no time is account taken of father-mother complementarity or sexual otherness. Equality leads, but perhaps this is ultimately, modernity, to reduce people to anonymous, standardized, interchangeable individuals. But by denying difference, by denying otherness, equality comes up against the concrete reality that feeds on these differences. This text is also part of a logic that wreaks havoc in our society, that of the right to the child, claimed by adults. What about the interests of the child, in fact, when it is subordinated to an external principle, that of alternating residence? Another argument is that of the so-called example of other European countries. The explanatory memorandum is clear: many European countries have already incorporated the principle of alternating residence into their law. This argument is dangerous in that it would lead us, sooner or later, to adopt pregnancy for others or euthanasia, following Belgium, the Netherlands or Great Britain. Rather than being at the tow of Anglo-Saxon, utilitarian and ultraliberal laws, rather than letting us go into a so-called society, let us be proud of the French exception in ethical matters! This text is even more in line with an ultraliberal logic by promoting diversion, organizing family life on the sole contractual basis. However, this logic leads to no longer adequately protecting the weakest, most fragile. The objectives you display are marked by a unfortunately too well-known temptation, that of wanting to re-educate those who do not adopt the unique thought. Let us read this sentence in the report: "The purpose of the bill is to change the perception of the social role of each parent". The legislation, instead of carefully taking into account the diversity of situations, is part of an ideological approach. Another feature of this text, which recalls some precedents, is the desire to give satisfaction to a small minority, at the risk of disrupting the lives of the vast majority of our fellow citizens. It should be noted that the percentage of fathers who applied for alternate residence without obtaining satisfaction is 2.6% for all separated fathers. This text is in line with many others, also in its haste. On such a delicate subject, no impact assessment, no advice from the Council of State – since it is a bill – sheds light on our choices. Barely written, it has already had to be completely rewritten in committee. It will have to be corrected again tonight, and the minister has told us that it should be completed in the coming months. While a piece of legislation could be announced on family and family policy, while the revision of bioethics laws is planned, you will understand the concern raised by the review of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u33	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to welcome the initiative of our colleague Philippe Latomb and MODEM. In the current context, it is not so simple to submit such a bill, even if it is based on the interests of the child, on the progress of equality between men and women, and it is ultimately tightened around the issue of the child's residence following separation or divorce. Let us recall that we are not addressing this evening the question of the organization of alternate custody, as some might have claimed, but of another, essential subject. In committee the importance of lobbying was mentioned. If lobbies or pressures can be exerted when it comes to a sensitive subject, they are practiced largely on both sides, contrary to what was intended to make us believe. It is incongruous to hear the lobbies sometimes criticise the lobbyism of other lobbies. It is probably a remake of the history of straw and beam, respectively in the eye of the neighbour and his. Our colleague has therefore been under a number of pressures on both sides, the most violent being not necessarily the ones we believe. He had the courage to defend his text and his convictions, no matter what, and to move forward on the subject, which I want to emphasize. "To divorce well, you have to be two! Françoise Dolto in her book When the parents split up. We are convinced that the principle of co-responsibility, co-parentality, must always be reaffirmed, sought and strengthened. We reaffirm this: in the event of divorce or separation, both parents have duties, responsibilities and rights. And the child must feel at home, at both parents, at mother's and father's. The text does not in any way deprive the judge of his ability to assess: on the contrary, he retains all his place and all his discretion. We recall only the principles that we believe are fundamental and bring us closer to other essential texts, such as the resolution adopted unanimously by the Council of Europe on this subject. In committee, we were told by representatives of two opposition groups that it is not good to rely on the example of foreign countries – not just northern Europe – many of which recognize shared residence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u35	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u36	We should, in a way, divorce or separate "to the French! "But we wonder what such an identity logic comes to do here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u37	Identity! Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u38	Be proud of our beautiful legislation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u39	Why not take into account what is happening in other countries and what is being advocated by major international bodies? In the field of family law, we are at the forefront of certain issues, other countries are inspired by us, but we must also, as we have done in the past, draw inspiration from what can be progress, a call for equality, co-parentality and co-responsibility, which comes from other countries. [[Applause on many benches in the REM group and on the benches in the MODEM group]] Our group will therefore vote in favour of the bill tabled by our colleagues in the MODEM Group, and I would like to congratulate Philippe Latomb, but also Vincent Bru and Caroline Abadie, for the important, very serious work they have done, and the course they have managed to keep at the height of the storm.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u40	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, if we are meeting this evening, it is to debate a delicate subject, a bill which seeks to establish a general principle of residence of children in each of their parents, in order, according to the author, to translate their equality "in the best interests of the child". Like many Frenchmen, I wonder and above all I worry. Indeed, as I was examining this bill on the principle of alternating custody – today we have a false nose of the guard alternated with the alternate residence – I was thinking that it was far away the time when we wrote the civil code as poets, the time when the words were posed, measured, when the law was only being amended to use Montesquieu's terms, "with a trembling hand". Without entering into philosophical considerations, I would like to ask ourselves basically what the law is for, what is a law? Some consider that the law has three fundamental characteristics. She's terribly human, like the subject we're dealing with today. It must be necessary. I mean, it must be useful. But the law that is before us today seems to me to be a bill of display. It is neither necessary nor useful; Worse still, it presents risks. The proposed reform is unnecessary, because it does not take into account the current situation. The civil code is now balanced. Alternative residence is already preferred when requested by parents. If it is a minority in court decisions, it is because it is only requested by a minority of parents – 19% of them. Only 18.8 per cent of fathers request it and 17.3 per cent obtain it. Only 1.5% of Fathers' requests for alternate residence are not met. When alternate custody is requested, the judge examines whether the criteria established by law are met, in the interests of the child: geographical proximity, the stability of the child, identical educational concepts. Justice seeks to establish a spirit of co-parentality. You are introducing a bill to address an alleged problem, which is not one, while refusing to see its consequences. You want to strengthen the rights of parents to the detriment of those of children. Despite the amendments which are supposed to sweeten it, there are risks to this text which we must absolutely avoid. First of all, I would like to point out that it has not been the subject of an impact assessment. Secondly, since the administrative residence of the child is closely linked to the distribution of tax shares and social rights, the text presents major economic risks for one of the two spouses, most often the mother. All the concerns related to the socio-economic aspects of the child's residence have been addressed in committee. What about the maintenance payments not paid by the father? We do not have any specific data on their number – some mention 40%, others 18%. The bill ignores this problem. Before considering this text, we should have taken stock of the situation. Finally, as you know, I have been particularly committed in recent years against domestic violence. Let me share with you the testimony of Florence, mother of two children and victim of physical and psychological violence on the part of the father. This mother accepted alternate custody for three years, I quote, "out of fear, because of threats and pressure. I accepted the alternate residence because I couldn't take it anymore. He called me in the evening until one o'clock in the morning, sometimes sixty times a day to get this mode of custody. In front of the judge, I ended up saying I agreed. » Alternative custody – a week at Dad's, a week at Mom's – is a control tool for violent spouses. It may also be used to exempt itself from the payment of maintenance. It allows the violent spouse to ask for an account of the children's daily lives: the choice of school, the meal menu, sports activities. Worse, this mode of custody assumes that ex-spouses live close to each other. Whatever threats and reality matter, what counts is the equality, which is said to be real, between the mother and the father. No matter the recourse to the judge, since the parents agree – the recourse to the judge has become optional. No matter their children's future, since only parents' rights matter. Why put these thousands of women and children at such risk to satisfy a minority of fathers who do not get custody? Let me remind you that 1.5 million children are involved. The law can't do anything. Let's look at family education and parental investment. We're deputies, not sorcerer apprentices. Let us stop playing with the lives of people, especially the lives of families and children. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will of course not vote for a text that represents a real danger for women victims of violence in the aftermath of the speech of the President of the Republic in which he endorsed the costume of defender of women and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u42	[[At twenty-two thirty-five hours, Mr. Sacha Houlié replaced Mr. Marc Le Fur in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u43	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want anyone to misunderstand the meaning of my speech. Like others tonight, I ask myself the question of the timeliness of this bill. I have no doubt of the concern of its authors to protect the best interests of children and to remind parents of their rights but also of their duties. I share this concern, but I know the difficulty of legislating and therefore, in a certain way, deciding, on matters that affect our most intimate relationships with those we love or have loved, and which concern those children we love, share and sometimes fight. This concern for children, may I remind you, should inspire us in many other areas. This is not the subject today, but I cannot help but repeat here that, with regard to medically assisted reproduction – LDCs – or pregnancy for others – GPA – the interests of the child should be what guides us before any other consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u45	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u46	No, there is no right to the child, there is only the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u47	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u48	It's easy to say it's out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u49	That's the point. But let's go back to what brings us together today. You get divorced or you rarely get separated from your heart's joy. Yet, 44% of people who have married end up separating. Every year, nearly 200,000 children are affected by the divorce of their parents. Too often, this tragedy is added to another, that of the loss of connection between children and their father. After a divorce, almost one in three children rarely see their father, and one in five children never see him! Another disturbing and alarming figure is that only 19% of fathers seek alternate custody. If parents demand it, they win in 93% of cases. I was just talking to you about the rights of the child. I would clarify the rights of the child vis-à-vis his or her parents, including, of course, the right to benefit from both parents. Even in the event of divorce, the parents' responsibility is to maintain, at all costs, what can be called a parenting couple or more precisely a parental balance, for the benefit of their children. In this respect, I would speak of a moral obligation. As you said on Thursday 23 November, the aim of your bill is not to impose alternate custody on equal time, but to give priority to it, in particular on behalf of equality between parents. It's a way, I understand, to empower fathers. I wonder: equality between parents, of course, is important, but again, what must take precedence, what is essential is first and foremost the interests of the child. Everything else is secondary. Remember, in 2014, 4400 doctors, pediatricians, psychiatrists, children's professionals had petitioned MPs to oppose the alternate residence. They relied on a finding: among toddlers, up to 3 years, or even up to 5 years, alternating residence can cause a loss of landmarks. They even said that 20 to 25 per cent of children who are subject to this alternative care scheme and who are seen by a doctor, have, I quote, "difficulties in falling asleep, are anxious, clinging to their mother". Later, a number of them are subject to hyperactivity or persistent anxiety. On the other hand, children whose parents have chosen to set up main accommodation are seeing these disorders in their children alleviate more quickly. However, with this bill, you want to make alternate residence a rule – the text provides that "exceptionally, the judge may fix the residence of the child at the home of one of the parents". I understand that you're trying to step back by talking about double residence, a symbolic bill that doesn't change much into law. Of which act. I call you to the utmost caution: wanting to impose a general principle in the name of equality between parents can be problematic or even harmful to the child. Every case, every family, every divorce is unique. Let us leave to the judge – and to the parents themselves when possible, the choice, the difficult choice of care best suited to the child or children. I know you're not closing the door to this possibility, but you want it to become the exception. I repeat, if, in this area, nothing can be resolved completely satisfactorily – as we all know –, do not make children an adjustment variable to ensure equality between parents. Let us never lose sight of the interests of the child, of our children. The latter should always take precedence over equality between the two parents, over their desires and their ego, because this is also to be a parent: to know how to disappear in front of the needs of his child.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u50	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law on the residence of the child in the event of the separation of parents seeks to establish the principle that the administrative residence of the child is at the home of each of his or her parents, unless the judge decides otherwise and is motivated by the best interests of the child such as violence or the special needs of the child. This is a symbolic message aimed at strengthening the child's right to maintain a relationship with both parents, without penalizing one of them or altering the perception of his or her role. Let us return for a moment to the principle of co-parentality that the 2002 Parental Authority Act has sought to strengthen. Initially developed during the 1993 reform, the concept of co-parentality means that it is in the child's interest to be raised by both parents, even in the event of separation. It should be recalled that article 18 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we ratified on 7 August 1990, states that "both parents have a common responsibility for the upbringing and development of the child. The MODEM Group's bill brings a new stone to the building, allowing us to fully implement this convention. We understand all the criticisms expressed. Many things can be further improved to strike a balance between the best interests of the child, the equal rights of parents and the serene exercise of co-parentality. I would like to shed some light on the legislation in the European Union on this subject – not just to align with a European model, but simply for information purposes. Many European legislations provide for the possibility of setting up an alternate residence. It tends to develop, until it becomes the preferred mode of care in Europe, replacing in fact the traditional model of mother care, with a more participatory model, in which fathers are more involved in their children's lives and where parents share decision-making power. Many States have evolved their family law. In Spain, the Act of 8 July 2005 expressly introduced the concept of shared custody, known as joint custody. The establishment of the child's residence alternately with the home of each of the parents is in principle the result of an agreement of the parents, which gives rise to parental plans providing for the duration of each stay, the mode of education or leisure. By way of exception, in the absence of parental consent, joint custody may only be requested by one of them, if this is in the child's best interests. The Spanish judge may impose joint custody, despite the lack of agreement of the parents, but under strict conditions. Joint custody is expressly excluded in cases of domestic violence – it is important to recall this. In Italian civil law, the right of the child to maintain a continuous and balanced relationship with each of his or her parents is reaffirmed. Thus, the Italian judge must give priority to considering alternative custody. It is not a question of equal sharing of time with the child, but of strengthening the exercise of co-parentality. On the other hand, the Italian Supreme Court of Cassation considers that a simple conflict between the parents does not prevent the setting up of alternate custody – special circumstances must be alleged. In Belgium, the law goes even further. It aims "to give priority to the egalitarian accommodation of the child whose parents are separated". The law thus asks the judge to favour alternative residence between the parents of the child. The application may be made by both parents, but when it is made by only one of them, the Belgian court must consider as a matter of priority the possibility of fixing the accommodation of the child in an equal manner between its parents. In all cases, the Belgian courts must rule by specially reasoned judgements, taking into account the concrete circumstances of the case as well as the interests of the children and parents. The bill we are considering today does not seek to align itself with the laws of our neighbours. It does not intend to impose an equal sharing of the time spent by both parents, nor to prescribe arrangements for the custody of the child. On this point, the judge's powers are not altered: what was possible so far will remain so. [[Applause on many benches in the REM group and on the benches in the MODEM group]] She doesn't come to upset family law either. The interests of the child will be preserved. The intervention and powers of the judge will not be altered. It comes in response to a growing desire of each parent to invest in the relationship with his or her child, even after a separation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u52	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u53	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, 1804, our civil code dates back to 1804. Has he been frozen since then? Definitely not. He evolves with wisdom and reason. But he must not do so in any way, after a short discussion, in a sparse Chamber on Thursday evening. The civil code is not the commercial code. With the civil code, the human is never far away. Tonight, we can only be surprised by an adventurous bill, without impact assessment. There is no rush, ladies and gentlemen, to push the civil code, a civil code that must not be transformed by passions and emotions. The malaise is so great that the law commission, aware of the issues at stake, has already tried to minimize considerably the scope of the bill. This deep rewriting, very fast, is a warning signal. Of course, separation can be synonymous, in many situations, with suffering, both for parents and for children. These sufferings must be heard. There are egalitarian demands, which can be understood in particular by fathers, some of whom no longer hesitate to assume the day-to-day management of their child. I had another one on the phone earlier. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not like we have to fill a legal vacuum. It is not as if our legal system and judicial practice were completely dysfunctional in this regard. It can even be seen that judges apply the law wisely and pragmatically. It is very important here to recall the function of the judge, to which we can trust. Especially when dealing with human lives, a deeply human legal reading must be maintained. It is not, in my view, up to the legislator to develop a systemic approach, because each human situation is unique. And, in terms of separation, whether we have experienced it personally or alongside it in our surroundings, case by case seems the best approach. Ladies and gentlemen, what counts above all is the interests of the child. Some have asked the legislator to treat family conflict management and commerce or property in a similar way. But children are not objects. Some believe – I read it – that it is "legally possible to steal children." This type of statement clearly shows the gap between different ways of thinking about what a child represents. In our view, it cannot be regarded as the primary object of other people's rights. Here, it seems to me essential to value "the rights of", before "the rights to", to be before having it, the rights of the child before the right to parents. It's a matter of ethics. In families where alternative residence is possible and desirable, agreements are made amicably, with or without a magistrate. If everything is gathered so that the residence is shared in the interests of the child, the judge will tend to favour this solution under the conditions examined and appropriate. But if he decides otherwise, it is because there are reasons for it, in the child's interest. A general practitioner who has been based in the Far East for 12 years recently drew my attention to the rhythm of children's lives, even speaking of "children suitcases". Care must therefore be taken not to forget the health of children. The detailed gaze of the judge ensures the best conditions for the child, so that he/she may flourish, while he/she is already under the test of parental separation. The judge, independent and trained, must be trusted in these cases of great human complexity. The original drafting of the bill was intended to make its intervention too restrictive. However, the sole search for the preservation of the child's interests must be sufficient to justify his or her decision. I think we need to trust him. Finally – and this is the main point – the bill, according to some, was intended to correct the feeling of discrimination, injustice, which is a respectable objective. According to others, it could generate negative externalities. That is why I call for the utmost caution. The best interests of the child must take precedence. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Your question, rapporteur, that of many parents who are separated and separated from their children, in deep suffering, is legitimate, but your method is not good. The bill is not sufficiently adjusted. Its consequences are not measured. Ladies and gentlemen, caution and vigilance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u54	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am replacing the seal guard, and I found this general discussion very interesting. In a dispassionate way, I remembered the phrase of Pythagoras: "A man is never so great as when he is on his knees to help a child. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u56	It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u57	Mrs Rixain, chairman of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, you have rightly pointed out this afternoon the equality issues of the bill. The consideration of the violence, which you have returned to, is a concern that the Government shares. The amendment you are proposing, as we shall see, is very welcome. Mrs El Haïry, you have called for modesty and tolerance, in an ideal of progress. As you have pointed out, it is the interest of the child that is at the heart of the text, which responds, through balanced provisions, to the needs of today's families. The social role of each parent is affirmed. Mrs. de La Raudière...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u58	Who's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u59	... recalled that most separations are painful, of course, of course. The Government, which fully appreciates the importance of the text, shares its desire to preserve the balance and place of each parent. The bill seems to me to be fully in line with that expectation. Mrs. Pau Langevin...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u60	Who's gone, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u61	... observed that family law is not a battlefield for gender warfare. She's absolutely right. I believe that all speakers should recall this sentence. All actors in the separation must be taken into account. The child's residence with both parents will not settle everything, but it allows equality between the two parents after separation. Mr. Little, the bill does not require alternate residence. That would make no sense. Not all parents ask for it and 80% of them jointly choose the accommodation arrangements for their children. The text does not upset these agreements. With regard to resources from family allowances, we will ensure that parents are not penalized under the new scheme. Mrs Abadie, you referred to the methods of drafting the text and recalled the numerous hearings that you have conducted. I once again welcome the quality of your work with the rapporteur. As you indicate, the notions of accommodation and visiting rights symbolically placed a parent, usually the father, in a kind of inferiority. The best interest of the child is to see the tension calmed. The removal of a parent's devalorization will contribute to this appeasement. Mr Breton, the impressive lifting of shields that you are talking about is the result of confusion, which has been carefully maintained by some. This text does not advocate alternative residence for all families, which does not correspond to the intention of the rapporteur, the commission or the Government. Mr Rebeyrotte, you recalled that both parents have rights and duties, and that the child must feel at home with each of his parents. That is the framework laid down by this text. Mrs Boyer, you are right: the subject that brings us together tonight is terribly human. You are right on another point: only a minority of parents request alternate residence. That is why the text does not lay down the principle of alternate custody. The situations of violence you have mentioned will be precisely those in which the child's residence can be fixed with one parent. Mrs Park, you have recalled the importance of co-parentality and the responsibility of each parent even after the separation, and the evolution of the law in this direction in the European states, but – as you have rightly pointed out – we are not trying to align ourselves with those who erect alternating residence in principle. Mrs Ménard, the text does not deal, as you said, with the GPA or with a right to the child. It is the interests of the child that guide and will continue to guide the judicial decision. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Mr Bazin, the judge will continue to assess in concrete terms the interests of the child, depending on each situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u62	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u63	Mr President, I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u64	The meeting was suspended for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u65	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u66	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u67	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "In all decisions concerning children, whether made by public or private social welfare institutions, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration. This is article 3(1) of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which dates back to 1989. The concept of the "best interests of the child" has developed as a result of the evolution of the representation of the child's rights in our societies. In 1902, the Hague Conference placed "the best interests of the child" at the forefront. In 1924, it was the Geneva Declaration that put forward the idea that the adult's duty was to protect children. In 1959, the Declaration of the Rights of the Child recognized the child as having rights, since the concept of "best interests" was clearly reflected in its principle No. 2. But it is especially with the creation, in 1989, of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, the CIDE, which tends to strengthen the protection of the child, that the use of this concept is widely developed. It thus allows for the preservation of the well-being of a minor and his or her right to develop in an environment favourable to his or her mental and physical health when making a decision concerning a minor. The judicial or administrative authorities of States that have ratified CIDE have an obligation to take into account this "best interests of the child" in any formal decision-making concerning the child or children. In practice, the person making the decision does so on the basis of what he or she has assessed as being in the child's interest at the present time or in a future perspective. According to article 9 of the CIDE, a child has the right to live with his or her parents; However, it may be separated by judicial decision provided that the decision is taken in accordance with its "best interest". This situation can occur when the child's well-being and the stability of his or her environment are called into question or in more serious cases of neglect, family abuse. This is the principle that prevails in the procedures of placement, separation, divorce or adoption or in measures relating to deprivation of liberty. It is therefore on the basis of this principle that court decisions concerning the custody and residence of children in connection with the separation of parents are issued in France today. It is also guided by this principle that the majority of parents today agree to put the interests of their children before their own disagreements, rancours or sufferings. Let us recall some facts and figures that have already been mentioned but that it is important to keep in mind. According to the study already cited by the Ministry of Justice carried out by the Evaluation Centre of the Directorate of Civil Affairs and the Seal, the principal residence of one of the parents – the mother when it comes to a heterosexual couple – is most frequently pronounced – in 71% of the situations – because this is the most requested mode of residence by the separated parents. Alternative residence – an increase from 10 per cent in 2003 to 17 per cent in 2012 – remains a less pronounced mode of residence by judges as less requested by parents. Father's residence – in heterosexual couples – is pronounced in 12% of situations and in a third in 0.1%. What are the factors behind these decisions? First of all, the fact that parents agree on the residence of children in about 80 per cent of cases. In 9% of cases, one member did not make a request. Parents who disagree about the children's residence account for about 10 per cent of the cases. In situations of disagreement, judges set a residence for 63% of the children and 24% for the father. It should be noted, as has already been said, that the judge places twice as much residence with the father as in situations of agreement between the parents. So this is the reality for the vast majority of children and their families. Even in cases of difficult separations, it is the interests of the child that prevail, which we should all welcome. Alternative or shared residence, satisfactory whether it is in principle when it is chosen within the framework of a parental consensus – and adapted to the age and autonomy of the children – cannot, of course, constitute a generalizable solution to all situations. The report of the Ministry of Justice thus makes it very clear that "the rejection of alternate residence is largely motivated by the interests of the child". We therefore do not object to this bill on the grounds that we would be against alternating or shared residence. On the contrary! We are very much, within La France insoubted, but also within this Chamber, I am sure, to have had as a child or to have, as parents, sometimes complicated family trajectories in which shared residence has allowed or allows today to preserve the well-being and right of the child to develop in a favourable environment. This is not objectively the case for all children and families. That is why we are opposed to this bill: because it runs counter to facts and realities for the vast majority of parents' consensual choices or court decisions that favour the best interests of the child. Moreover, far from promoting equality between women and men, it risks aggravating inequalities between parents – especially economic ones – or even causing more suffering, more complications and more emotional and physical violence. This bill is bad for many reasons. The first is the one I mentioned earlier: the questioning of the best interests of the child, which is currently the basis of the judges' decision. During separation, children often find themselves at the heart of painful situations. It is then necessary to give flexibility to judges in their offices, especially when the couple is in conflict, in order to ensure the serenity and safety of children. To introduce, as this bill suggests, an automatic character of alternating residence would in fact only respond to very minority requests. This has already been said, according to the Ministry of Justice, 18.8 per cent of fathers in heterosexual couples apply for alternate custody and 17.3 per cent of them obtain it. Thus, only 1.5% of fathers are affected by decisions that run counter to their wishes. In this minority of cases, where there is a serious disagreement or conflict between parents, it is the judge who makes a decision taking into account all the elements of the files, on a case-by-case basis. Why call into question a procedure whose operation satisfies the vast majority of families? Why do you want to make the exception the rule? Would these 1.5% of unmet requests for one of the parties justify discrediting court decisions and reducing the office of magistrates and magistrates? Why should we decide, a little on a corner of the table as we saw during the discussions in the Committee on Laws, to brutalize the provisions of the Civil Code that work pretty well and thereby upset the balance of families? This desire to force couples, magistrates and magistrates to ignore the best interests of the child is absolutely not the right way to promote a peaceful environment for families or to advance equality between women and men – especially since nothing in the text, as presented in committee and above all as amended, guarantees equality in care, it is even the opposite, which has been said. The summary of an amendment tabled in committee is very clear in this respect. I quote: "The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that the principle of double residence does not always imply equal time spent by each parent". Let us be clear: as others have said, we believe that "the best interest" does not allow equal time in all cases. By specifying that the time spent by the child in each of the former and former partners of the couple can be completely different, you do not solve anything in terms of division of duties since the residence can be called "alternate" even if a child can spend a day or a few days a year with one of his or her parents and the rest of the time with the other. With this type of measure, where are real equality and co-responsibility in acts, in practice? On the other hand, by introducing the principle of double residence, you are actually introducing the principle of double tax residence. Although this may not be the starting point of this bill, the very concrete result is not to share the children's residence on an equal time basis, but rather to share tax shares and family allowances equally. In fact, the minister has recognized this in a certain way: the way in which we can move forward on this point is not very clear. I would add that no studies have been carried out on this subject. This is a very problematic measure for single-parent families whose parents are often mothers – a third of them live below the poverty line. They will be even more affected. This provision may lead to even more precariousness for these households and their impoverishment, even though the arrangements for the recovery of maintenance payments – almost half of which are not paid or are late – are now failing. Indeed, which says double domiciliation means a reduction or even disappearance of maintenance. This pension is granted in 83 per cent of cases of residence with the mother, but only in 23 per cent of cases if the children are in alternate residence. This drop may seem logical at first glance in case of equal sharing of child care time, but it is known that married women have on average a significantly lower income than their spouse – 42% lower in 2011 according to INSEE. Separations further aggravate this unequal situation for women: after a separation – simple breakup, rupture of PACS or divorce – the standard of living of women falls by 14.5% on average, that of men increases by 3.5%. But one of the most serious and dangerous dimensions of this bill is that in situations of domestic or family violence, it could give a means of pressure to the violent parent to intimidate the other parent, allowing him or her to blackmail the custody of the children and to continue his or her emotional and financial grip.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u68	She's got 15 minutes...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u69	Let us not forget the testimonies of women victims of violence indicating that the economic factor is one of the major obstacles preventing them from leaving their violent spouses. Unfortunately, these are not very rare situations. According to the Observatory on Violence against Women, 225,000 women are victims of violence within their couple in one year; 123 women were killed by their partner or ex-partner in 2016 – one woman every three days – and 25 minor children were killed by one of the parents in a context of violence within the couple. Following an investigation into women killed by their partner or ex-partner, the newspaper Libération showed that most of the murders took place in or near the home and in a context of separation or at the time of the officialisation of the breakdown – the timing of the transfer of children is also at risk, journalists point out. While violence against women is a major issue and a five-year emergency plan has just been announced, this bill goes down from all the recommendations of women's rights organizations. A forum of eleven feminist associations, dated yesterday, reports that one in ten women is the victim of domestic violence and that violence also constitutes violence against children. Judges must be given the opportunity to decline the demand for alternate custody, not to have their office reduced. There are many other ways to improve co-parentality and equality between women and men. We will propose them to you by way of amendments when we consider this bill, if, however, I have not persuaded you to vote on this motion to reject it beforehand. One of our amendments is aimed, for example, at strengthening the protection of mothers and their children from unpaid maintenance payments. Another provides that social benefits and tax benefits may continue to be awarded to the parent with the child's main material responsibility. But it is above all through a comprehensive and extremely proactive policy, which goes beyond the scope of this bill and which addresses the problem from all its angles, economic, social, cultural, educational, that we will really advance – not only theoretically or symbolically, but in action – the equality and co-responsibility of parents, both men and women, in the care and upbringing of children. For example, the principle of equal pay could be strictly enforced or genuine co-parental leave could be introduced, considerably increasing the length of leave for the child's spouse or mother's spouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u71	We could – we should! – also launch a major educational, family and school project, in order to break down this toxic idea, distilled very early in childhood, according to which the male prevails over the female; in order to put an end to the socialization of domestic tasks in general; in order to challenge the summa divisio between the games for the little girls, who confine them to activities of interior and child care, and the games of the little boys, which are intended to activate them freely outside. Wouldn't it be a good campaign to launch as the holiday season approaches? Above all, is this not the kind of debate that we should have at the level of society as a whole, if we want future fathers to have, in terms of co-responsibility, a mental and cultural pattern that enables them to truly take charge of the care and education of their children? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] There is so much to be done about it, and there is no shortage of good proposals. But this bill is not one of them. It is for these reasons that the La France group calls on you to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u72	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u73	Madam Member, thank you first of all for your presence. I believe it is necessary to further clarify the scope of this bill. It concerns children in all parental situations. The terms of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child are respected. This bill, I repeat again, does not require alternate custody. It does not run counter to parents' choices, and we will ensure that it does not lead to the impoverishment of one of them. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Finally, I would like to point out that, since this text will not involve any change in the manner of residence, it will not result in a change in support payments. And finally, I would like to remind you once again that situations of violence will be precisely situations in which the residence can be fixed with one parent. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u74	Mr Vincent Bru, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u75	First of all, I would like to welcome the various speakers who spoke for the tone they set for this evening. Despite their opposition to this bill, they expressed themselves in a courteous, moderate, thoughtful and non-controversial manner. We have, of course, been sensitive to the arguments they have put forward, but we believe, as the minister has said, that they misunderstand the content of this bill. Mrs. Danièle Obono, you have a habit of presenting things in your own way. I was appreciative of the fact that you recalled the international sources of children's rights. I was even pleasantly surprised to hear you mention the 1959 Declaration of the Rights of the Child. The Convention had no legal value, but it was fortunately transformed, long after, in 1989, into an International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which obliges States that have signed and ratified it. I just want to remind you of a few rules. When you say that this bill makes alternating residence automatic, that it makes it a generalizable solution, and even mandatory and imposed – and you join in that Mr. Little – you deeply misunderstand the meaning of our text. This is not at all the purpose of this bill. This does not require a balanced alternative residence between the father and the mother. Nothing in this text obliges so little the will of the parents, provided that the best interests of the child are respected. On the contrary, the text states that "the child's residence is fixed at the home of each of the parents" – it is an administrative registration – but specifying "according to the frequency and length of time determined by agreement between the parents or by the judge". In other words, it is a question of being tailor-made, on a case-by-case basis, and not of imposing a single solution, as you have implied, whatever the circumstances and whatever the case may be. This bill is fundamentally based on the best interests of the child. The best interests of the child, however, are to enjoy the rights of both parents. It is not the parents who have rights over the children, but the children who have rights over the parents. The specialists we have heard told us, even though there may be disagreements between the different schools of child psychiatrists, that the presence of the father, not necessarily "egalitarian", but regular, has an impact on the development and development of the child. For this reason, Article 1, which introduces the principle of shared residence, also specifies that the modalities of frequency and duration are determined by agreement between the parents. And it seems to me that it is in the child's interest that his or her parents, whatever their experience, whatever their history, whatever their situation, are able to decide together on these modalities of frequency and duration. Moreover, this text does not exclude the judge. It is stated that the latter may, where necessary, determine such arrangements of frequency and duration itself. The judge is therefore not dismissed, and I would ask for further proof that when the best interests of the child are at stake, he or she may decide to fix the child's residence at the home of one of the parents – that is what article 1, paragraph 3, provides. The Committee adopted an amendment by Mrs Caroline Abadie concerning cases in which parental authority was entrusted by the judge to one of the parents, not to both parents, as an exception to the principle contained in the 2002 Act. In this case, the child's residence is obviously fixed at the home of the parent who, by decision of the judge, has sole authority over the child. As you can see, the judge is at the heart of the procedure and, when the interests of the child require a derogation from the principle laid down in paragraph 1 of the text, the judge must say so and provide otherwise. I will give some examples from the current practice. There is a whole debate, which you know better than I do, Mrs Obono, about alternative care for very young children – that is, in general, children under 3 years of age, but some child psychiatrists go up to 5 years, 6, or even for a few 7 years. That is to say how complex the debate is, if even scientists do not agree on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u76	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u77	When the child is still a baby, the judge must be able to decide that the child will reside for a period of time in the mother's home, the main attachment figure – especially if the mother is breastfeeding, that goes without saying. The same applies, Mrs Obono, when geographical distance or material conditions impose accommodation, or when the father has no employment or housing. In such cases, the judge must obviously, in the interests of the child, choose the mother's domicile as his residence, because that is normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u78	Exceptionally!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u79	That is why we really think that this text is much more balanced than what you say. It leaves room for parents to decide, and it also leaves room for the family judge, which is important. Furthermore, you have rightly raised the issue of violence against women, which is a serious issue. We have reintroduced into this text, as you know, the provision of the 2010 law on violence specifically against women, especially when children are handed over, or when arms are passed, as they say in the usual language, which sometimes goes wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u80	It's going bad every week!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u81	In this case, the judge must monitor this procedure and guarantee the safety of the woman, where there is a risk that she will be violated by her former companion. It therefore seems to me, Mrs Obono, that you have introduced this bill in a somewhat caricatural manner and that the trial you are bringing to her is not a fair trial. The text, as reflected in the work of the Committee on Laws and Hearings which we have conducted with Mrs Caroline Abadie, seems to me much more balanced and moderate, and much less caricatural, than you say. In any case, I am convinced that it marks an important step forward in favour of effective co-parentality and a more important role for the father in the care of children. Do you know that one in three children rarely see their father and that one in five children never see him? We cannot be satisfied with this situation. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and several REM benches]] We believe that fathers should not escape, that they should be reminded of their obligation of parental co-responsibility and that if the emotional couple disappears, the parental couple remains. I believe that this text paves the way for a change in attitudes, in the interests of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u82	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Richard Ramos, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u83	Dear colleague, when I listened to you, I agreed with almost everything you said. You have spoken to us about education and no one here questions what you have said about it, nor about Christmas gifts, nor about the fact that children, boys or girls, must be brought up in the respect of everyone. You have of course told us about the economy, and we do not dispute your figures, because it is quite obvious that in the event of separation, women are more penalized than men. Far from us, therefore, the idea of challenging what you said about this, Member. You have also rightly told us about violence against women, and it is true that violence can exacerbate at the time of separation, and the beatings can be even more violent. You have rightly told us about the best interests of the child. But on all the benches of this assembly, everyone has been a child, everyone has known children in difficult situations, and everyone is thinking about the best interests of the child. So what you are saying is right, Mrs Obono, but it does not correspond to the context or the text proposed today. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and a few benches of the REM group]] This text does not contradict your remarks: it simply stems from the desire to advance the father's responsibility. What you say will deserve debate, but is not at all in the spirit of the proposed text. We will come back, when we examine other texts, in other contexts, to your comments that are correct, but this evening we will vote against your motion to reject them beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u84	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u85	Of course, we will vote in favour of Mrs Obono's motion of rejection. This evening we have a debate that is both worthy and particularly interesting. As you pointed out, the best interests of the child have extremely complex aspects. This bill does not seem to me to reflect this complexity. Moreover, it is deeply imprecise. It confuses, in my view, two important notions: co-parentality and the mode of custody. I believe in your sincerity when you say that your goal is to make better progress towards co-parentality. Simply, in co-parentality, there is no question of the mode of custody. You sum up co-parentality to the mode of custody, whereas these are two completely different things. We said you were trying to impose alternate custody. I want to remove the word "impose," but in any case, my group and I remain convinced that you are trying, by this law, to favour alternate custody or to make it the mode of primary custody. It is deeply dangerous, however, because it calls into question the notion of choice and therefore respect for the best interests of the child. If you accept that this bill is primarily a poster text, also admit that it has many dangers to the child through its inaccuracy. It would be prudent, I tell you in all sincerity, to review your copy in depth. Perhaps a motion to refer to committee would have been more appropriate, but, as it has not been tabled, I agree with the motion to reject it beforehand. You say that society must be moved forward on the issue of co-parentality, but that cannot be done through court decisions that would impose a mode of custody that is neither requested nor chosen by both parents – or that would be experimentation! Experimenting on children!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u86	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u87	Thank you, Mrs Faucillon...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u88	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group as well as on some benches of the REM group]] As my colleagues have pointed out, there are other possibilities for doing so, including extending paternity leave. This would greatly contribute, I believe, to the advancement of co-parentality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u89	The next speaker is Mr Remy Rebeyrotte, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u90	Of course, we will be opposed to the motion to reject it beforehand. Mrs Obono, it is true that you were relatively moderate tonight compared to usual, since you explained to us that, in the end, you were not opposed to co-parentality. It took about 30 seconds of your intervention. The next 14 minutes were occupied by a strong plea against the bill, and thus against co-responsibility. For the rest, I just wanted to say one thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u91	Until then, it was fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u92	[[Smile]] That's why I was talking about moderation! I just wanted to say that the principle must be to seek co-parentality and co-responsibility in the interests of the child. On the other hand, in the text, the rule is always laid down by the judge, who retains his role and discretion. The rest is not in the text. You told us about alternate custody: it is not in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u93	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u94	It's in the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u95	It is the origin of the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u96	It's his very mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u97	It's amazing... We have to take care of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u98	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] You told us about the financial conditions of the divorce; they are not in the text. We speak strictly of residence, to affirm co-responsibility and co-parentality, in the interests of the child. I simply wanted to recall what is in the text and what is not in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u99	The alternate guard is in the text! What you're saying is a lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u100	That's the origin of the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u101	Mr Thibault Bazin, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u102	Danièle Obono and the La France insoumée group propose a motion to reject this proposal for a law on the residence of the child in the event of the separation of the parents. If the same bill had been introduced by one of the oppositions, the majority would surely have tabled a motion to reject it beforehand or, at least, a motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u103	This is a trial of intent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u104	But as it emanates from MODEM, in fact itself divided about it, as the debates in the commission of laws between eminent magistrates have shown, the majority group The Republic on the move tried to correct the shot in a few days. A question arises for us: can we be assured that the shooting has been sufficiently corrected?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u105	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u106	Let me doubt that. [[Laughs]] The niche trembled. In the public debate, this bill raises positions that are as contradictory as they are passionate about, which shows the extremely sensitive nature of the issue. The subject is serious. He divides us into the Republicans. In view of this, the expression will be personal and the vote will be free.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u107	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u108	We listen to parents who are separated from their children, who suffer: they experience this as injustice or discrimination. At the same time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u109	At the same time?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u110	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] ...we are concerned about the interests of the child, who must take precedence. The civil code deserves better than the method used for this bill, whose change of title and so deep rewriting are cause for concern. It's in the best interests of the child. In this respect, we cannot embark on legal adventures without a serious impact assessment. On a personal basis, Xavier Breton and I will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u111	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u112	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u113	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u114	I will vote on this motion, which I have tabled, and I would like to reassure you: in France, when there is one, there are seventeen. Therefore, it is on behalf of our group that I will do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u115	Some of them are on TV, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u116	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Yes, but they are present in spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u117	Please, only Mrs. Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u118	We may be only seventeen, but I think you can recognize that...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u119	They're on TV sets!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u120	...even when we are few in number, we always defend our views on the substance, including those who may appear reformist. I now come back to a few inquiries. The fundamental problem, as you have partly acknowledged, is that we do not know what this text is about. It does not respond, as has been said and repeated, and you recognize it yourself, to problems that would be mostly raised by the judicial institution or by the parents...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u121	We're a little in the com right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u122	... since, once again, in the vast majority of cases, there is in fact an agreement between the parents on the issue of the residence of the children. There is evidence of co-parentality, that is, that everyone is responsible and makes a responsible decision in the best interests of the child. Therefore, your bill would only respond to minority cases where there is disagreement. This is precisely what is problematic because, in these cases of disagreement, the judicial authority is already in a position to determine, on a case-by-case basis, in a very detailed and precise manner, the choice to be made. The problem is that your text, as it is written, now sets alternate residence as a prerequisite for the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u123	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u124	In other words, this compels the office of magistrates. You can't say otherwise when it's black on white in your text! From now on, it is the exception that will take precedence over the choice of the principal residence of one of the parents. Your text lays down a prerequisite and, in a certain way, the free exercise of the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Obono...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u126	I'll finish it, Mr. President. We could have a broader debate. In any case, I do not think it is the responsibility of legislators to discuss a text as to how it was in committee and how it is today in open session. It would be better to vote on this motion to reject...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u127	Thank you, Mrs Obono, it is time to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u128	... and in the coming year engage in a real debate on co-parentality, which is much more than what you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u129	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u130	I have before me five deletion amendments, Nos 1, 8, 13, 24 and 32. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u131	Article 1, as well as the text as a whole, is a bad answer to a real question. The real question is the suffering of many fathers, in particular, to see insufficiently their child or children as a result of separation from the mother. Far from the idea of denying this real suffering. Far from the idea of denying that a child needs, in order to build himself, to see both his parents. A child, we will have the opportunity to say it again in future debates, needs a father and a mother. But when the family circle breaks out, the problem is to adjust the child's need and daily life. Our talented colleague Sarah El Haïry alerted us at the beginning of the general discussion: "The child is not a trophy. The solution proposed by this text is a bad answer. Standardization of residence for all is not the right solution. This text only corresponds in very rare cases to the best interests of the child, which must remain our primary concern. That is why this first amendment, which calls for others, aims to delete Article 1. [[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you need a sign, it has snowed on the House tonight. So be careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u132	It's out of the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u133	I feel inspired, Mr. Bazin... I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u134	As I mentioned earlier, divorce is a personal and family tragedy that affects nearly 200,000 children every year. And, because it is a tragedy, our duty as legislator is to make it the least destructive possible for children, who are the first victims of it. For children under 6 years of age, the damage caused by court decisions in favour of alternating residence is proven, and it is worse when the alternate residence is split and the child is squashed, two days in his father's home, two days in his mother's home. Many health professionals attest to the existence of "attachment disorders," as they call them. It is very serious: our children then suffer from very deep anxiety, psychosomatic disorders, hyperactivity, sleep disorders, school phobia when they are teenagers. Worse, our children suffer from depression: while they are only at the dawn of their lives, they must already attend the waiting rooms of the child psychiatrists. And, the more children grow up, the more troubles persist. Denmark also rang the bell in 2012 by legislating so that alternating residence could no longer be imposed. This challenge from egalitarianism to the Buttist is not isolated: most international experts denounce the principle of alternating residence, which in their view calls into question the emotional security and stability of our children. Yet emotional stability is an absolute necessity for children. [[Murmures and "We! » on various benches]] Let us not allow ourselves to make an exceptional measure a standard, when it is criticized by many specialists. Just ask yourself one question: which adult – who among us tonight would agree to change accommodation every week? If this solution is not beneficial and serene for an adult, why would it be for a child? A precautionary principle must oblige us with regard to our children. As parents, we owe them what is best, even if this decision is made at the expense of our personal interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u135	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u136	It is intended to delete article 1, since the text does not sufficiently take into account the best interests of the child or his or her basic needs, in particular his or her need for emotional security and stability. However, the principle of shared residence is very clearly at odds with this emotional security and stability. Each situation should also be taken into account. With this text, it will be difficult for the judge to customize his decision according to the age and relationship of the child with each parent. The interests of the child should be determined on a case-by-case basis. However, it is clear that this text puts it after the needs of adults, since it will be subject to the principle of shared residence. It is therefore no longer the best interests of the child. The main aim of Article 1 is to achieve equality between adults. You claim this egalitarianism. However, there are no automatic links between equality for the benefit of adults and the interests of the child, which are based on other foundations. That is why we propose the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u137	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u138	In 2012, 66,400 divorces with minor children were pronounced. The judge determined the usual residence of the mother seven times out of ten, alternated twice in ten and of the father in 6% of cases. Alternative residence is more common for ex gratia divorces – 30% of cases – than for litigation divorces – 13% of cases. In the latter case, the usual residence of the mother is decided for three-quarters of the divorced, and for the father in only 8% of the cases. In the face of these situations, the father often feels harmed at the expense of the mother on the question of the place of residence. Remember that after a divorce, one in five children no longer see their father after a few years. Of course, there is the reality of the numbers, but we must not rush. This bill seeks to establish what you call real equality between fathers and mothers, but the judge must remain at the heart of the scheme. As we all know, there are situations where agreement between the parents is not possible, because if it takes two to fight, it also takes two to get along, as Françoise Dolto said. It is good to remind him in this House. This is particularly the case after psychological violence, which is still unclear in our law, and which I hope we will be able to define. In this situation, the perpetrator of domestic violence seeks to exploit co-parentality as a means of perpetuating perverse violence beyond separation. What can be done to deal with a mother under control who will accept alternate custody with a sometimes violent spouse by "agreement between the parents"? We must leave the judge at the heart of the scheme. Add to this the age and maturity of the child. In order to avoid the occurrence of disruptions related to the discontinuity of living places and attachment figures, many experts recommend avoiding alternate custody before the age of 6 or 7. Personally, I think we should wait until the age of entry in sixth. In a judgement of 26 May 2011, the Douai Court of Appeal refused to set up an alternative residence for children aged 4 years and 2 years. In this decision, the court explained the reasons why it considered the young age of children as an obstacle to this mode of residence: "if the conditions of stability are not met, [the child] may have a disturbed attachment reflecting a sense of internal insecurity".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u139	Thank you for closing, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u140	Finally, let us add the proximity of the parents' homes or the material characteristics of the child's care. As alternation is not a mathematical formula where the child would be a variable of the equation, it is up to us to make the best interests of the child take precedence.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u142	I call Mrs Danièle Obono to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u143	This deletion amendment is in line with the logic of the motion for a preliminary rejection that we have proposed. I repeat, this text was meant to be symbolic – the symbol of the need for co-parentality. In the explanatory memorandum, there is also a question of simplifying court procedures in disputes: the proposed law was therefore also intended to answer many practical questions. However, not only is this not the case, since answers are already provided in practice, and in a consensual way, but it raises other questions. Thus, with Amendment No 46 on the allocation of family allowances, you recognise that the proposed law raises problems in this area. The same applies to the issue of violence: the "symbolic" provision provided for in article 1e may have the effect of keeping the child in a violent environment, in the case of a parent who is a victim of violence and who wishes to leave the home. Finally, if the challenge is to strengthen co-parentality, as has been said on several occasions, let us draft a bill on this subject! What is the link between place of residence and co-parentality? You rightly state that alternate custody does not mean that custody time is equal. In that case, what does co-parentality mean? What are the responsibilities? How do we get both parents to take care of them? Unfortunately, for the time being, neither the law committee nor the public sitting has debated the content of this co-parentality, which must be not only a symbol, but an economic, financial and cultural reality. We must adopt these deletion amendments in order to be able to conduct the debate on this important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u144	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u145	The various amendments that have been tabled are all aimed at simply deleting the principle of dual residence. It is therefore ultimately a matter of challenging the substance, not the form, of this bill. I would like to reiterate the principle of strengthening the child's right to maintain ties with both parents. It's in the best interests of the child. That is why I do not understand how it can be argued in this House that this bill is contrary to the interests of the child. Indeed, the draft law merely confirmed and applied in French law the provisions of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, of which Ms. Obono had cited article 9 very opportunely. One could also cite article 5 or article 18, which provides that "both parents have a common responsibility for the upbringing and development of the child".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u146	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u147	For our part, we believe that by establishing the principle of dual residence, we affirm and implement the provisions of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. The sharing of the child's accommodation is of course likely to encourage a more equal care of the child and a real maintenance of his or her ties with both parents. We have often been told, notably by a lawyer at a hearing, that women have difficulty giving up majority custody, because of the pressure of society and the degraded image, the image of a bad mother they would send back. We believe, on the contrary, that this image needs to be changed and that we must reassure those people who are in difficulty and who are sometimes under social pressure, even perhaps without realizing it. Mrs Obono, with regard to violence against women, we have made provision, as I said earlier, for a provision to avoid the father's acts of violence against the mother of the child at the time of the handover, the handing over of the child in the arms of the other parent. You say that the text is only symbolic, but some statements in the law give some direction to society, place both parents in the face of their responsibilities and allow fathers in particular in the future to be more responsible and present to their children. You also mentioned co-parentality, which does not necessarily imply equality. It is true, it is not the equality of time spent with the child that makes the wealth of the contribution of a father or mother. As many speakers have said, it is therefore necessary to do so on a case-by-case basis. That is why our text does not freeze or impose anything. Mrs Boyer, you mentioned the age of entry in sixth grade: 10 or 11 years. To my knowledge, this is not a widespread position.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u148	I said it was a personal opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u149	That's not what we heard during the hearings. But this attachment figure, of which we have been told a lot, must be taken into account by the parents themselves, and above all by the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u150	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u151	I agree with you: for children under 3 years, even 5 years, depending on the family's history, depending on the specific situation, the judge must provide appropriate answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u152	Five years is too small!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u153	We do not require a solution for all cases. Finally, the Minister will present an amendment earlier on on the issues of social protection and family allowances, and we will be able to discuss it on this occasion. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u155	The Government is opposed to all of these amendments, as they attribute to this bill an object that is not its own. Indeed, as I mentioned earlier, the principle enshrined in Article 1 e rde of the bill is that of dual residence, not that of dual residence. The proposed law does not conflict with the legally established principle governing the manner of residence of the child. These will not, in practice, be changed. Only the terminology will be renewed. The new provisions introduced by the proposed law are intended to promote co-parentality by at least symbolically allowing both parents to be equal. I repeat that they do not introduce alternate residence as a matter of law. The judge will continue to determine the rate and frequency of the child's accommodation with each of his or her parents. It is only a double attachment of the child to the home of both parents. In the event of violence, and if the situation so warrants, the family court may fix the residence of the child with one parent and set a very small right of access for the other parent. In any event, the judge will look after the child's interests, and the decision of the Douai Court of Appeal, which you recalled, Member of Parliament, demonstrates the vigilance of the judges on this matter. The Government is therefore opposed to all these amendments, which are essentially irrelevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u156	On the identical amendments Nos 1, 8, 13, 24 and 32, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u157	As a member of the Democratic and Related Movement Group, I am rather proud that we have opened this societal debate. It is a highly difficult subject, because it affects the intimate and the subjective. We quoted Montesquieu and Dolto. We could also, of course, mention Freud, which defines three major arts and three impossible arts that I believe we are gathering tonight. The first impossible art is the art of governing; the second one to educate; the third one to cure. Yes, this debate brings together these three impossible approaches – which doesn't mean we don't have to try, what we're doing tonight. I congratulate the House as a whole because our debate is well held and totally calmed with regard to the pressures that have been put to each other in recent times, with a view to putting the issue of parental authority and shared joint authority back to the centre. Co-parentality has been mentioned: I would like to remind you that parenting does not begin at the time of separation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u158	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u159	In any case, I hope so, especially for the fathers. We should work on parental guidance. I stress this all the more easily since, for three years, I have been, as a child psychiatrist, oriented towards parental guidance. Often, parents come to us to be enlightened about what is good and what is not good and, in case of separation, what is best. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] The best interests of the child, for the professional I was, were to be able to meet the needs of the child immediately and to accompany him in his growth. Instead of simply representing authority, I needed to be a guardian of growth and sometimes resilience. I hope that this text will make it possible to go in this direction to resolve certain problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u160	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u161	I would like to respond to comments that have accompanied the defence of these deletion amendments, particularly those of Mrs Ménard, who stressed that it was difficult for a child to change homes every week. Many of us here experience dragging our suitcase, which, I agree, is not always easy. However, this is not exactly what a child does: when he changes his house, it is to meet with one of his parents! The situation may be better, but you have presented it in a caricatural way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u162	You cannot deny that the child is in a situation that may prove difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u163	I understand, but it's to find a parent, which can also be an advantage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u164	In people who have money, certainly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u165	Please, only Mrs Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u166	Obviously, I am not able to convince the whole House. Perhaps I will have more luck by quoting former Minister Laurence Rossignol in 2014 on the proposed law on parental authority and the interests of the child: "Article 7 [...] establishes the child's dual residence. It's a very nice measure that says the child has two homes. She added: "It is therefore a symbolic measure for the child, it is a reassuring and secure measure for him, it is a beautiful measure." What she repeated, before concluding: "This puts an end to the archaism of the right of access and accommodation, which no longer corresponds to what the fathers today want, the separated fathers who do not wish to shelter their children as one would host a visiting friend". It is "a measure in the best interests of the child and in the interests of maintaining the relationship between parents and children after separation". [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] In speaking of the interests of the child, the debate has moved away from its purpose: this bill does not deal with the time that the child will spend with each of his or her parents, but with setting up a double residence, which does not amount to an equal sharing of time between the two parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u167	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u168	Our rapporteur, in her summary, and the minister, have provided a great deal of information. Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to refocus the debate on the purpose of the bill. There is a need to distinguish between administrative residence and custody arrangements. The interests of the child remain fully under the responsibility of the family judge. This must be borne in mind when voting against the deletion of section 1 of the bill that we are defending. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM groups and several benches of the REM group]] The text does not remove any prerogative from the family judge: it is only intended to establish the child's administrative residence at the home of each parent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u169	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u170	We're here to vote for laws, not symbols. This is a text which, far from bringing or settling anything, does the opposite. There is no law on an exceptional basis. These words "exceptionally" leave a door open to each lawyer to defend what he or she means. Accurate figures were given: 18.8 per cent of fathers apply for alternate residence and 17.3 per cent of fathers apply for alternate residence. It must be considered that the law of fathers has evolved as a result of their commitment to their children. If co-parentality evolves, this evolution is not under constraint. It does not protect the child, the interests of the family or, of course, the interests of the parents. Its incidence has not even been assessed. Yes, I'm against this tabletop bill, because I prefer round tables. That is why I propose that you revise this text, which deals with a very important subject of society, in the context of real collective work carried out in the interests of families. I also propose that you do not deal with the issue of the child's residence by the little bit of the lorgnette, so as not to be the small rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u171	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u172	[[Applause on several benches of the REM, GDR and LR groups]] Let us together make a beautiful law: that the Assembly protect the interests of every member of the family, and in particular those of the child, with kindness.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u174	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1, 8, 13, 24 and 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u175	I have before me three amendments, Nos 21, 14 and 40, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 14 and 40 are identical. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u176	First of all, I would like to note the results of the public election that has just taken place: they prove that freedom of voting allows us to express ourselves in conscience on important matters. That's a good thing. Amendment No. 21 incorporates a proposal contained in article 49 of the proposed law on the protection of the child, submitted by Daniel Fasquelle. This article, which proposes a new wording of article 373-2-9 of the Civil Code, shows that it is possible to change the law by taking a large number of precautions. To draft his bill, Daniel Fasquelle surrounded himself with many child psychiatrists, psychologists and sociologists. Article 373-2-9 of the amendment reads as follows: "When deciding on the terms of joint parental authority, the judge shall designate, in the absence of an amicable agreement or if such agreement appears to him to be contrary to the best interests of the child, that of the father and mother in whom the child has his habitual residence. "The periodicity of the reception of the child, in the case of the father and mother who does not have the child's habitual residence, shall be fixed according to a timetable established by the judge or, a minimum, controlled by him. "On an exceptional basis and by specially reasoned decision, the judge may order alternate residence when the child is over seven years of age, if parental status so permits and if the best interests of the child do not exclude it. It determines its duration. The alternative residence shall be carried out on trial for a minimum period of six months, and the judge shall decide on the residence of the child. » It also provides that "Even in the case of alternating residence, the child has the right to know the place of his or her reference residence, which is fixed. The judge or the consent of the parents, in the latter case under the supervision of the judge, define the child's reference residence. » As you can see, this text has been drafted with great care, taking into account the age or situation of the parents. If it aims at an agreement between the parents, it always places it under the control of the judge who will check each situation. We are at the heart of taking into account the interests of the child. It is not a question of imposing on the judge, parents and children a principle that will then be circumvented by means of exceptions. We have to start from every situation. The wording of the amendment goes in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u177	You have the floor, Mr Breton, to support Amendment No 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u178	It is intended to introduce safeguards against alternative residence as currently envisaged in the Civil Code. Conditions must be introduced in the legislation to govern the judiciary, in particular a child's age condition, a reference to parental status and the consideration of a possible conviction of one of the parents as the perpetrator, co-author or accomplice of a crime against the other person, the alternative residence being excluded in the latter case.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u179	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor in support of Amendment No 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u180	Of course, I agree with Xavier Breton. The proposed law lays down the principle that the residence of the child shall be fixed at the home of each of his or her parents, in order to reflect their equality. The text therefore aims at the equality of parents: however, it is the interests of the children that concern us. The judge should not be excluded from the scheme, but should be the principle. For example, he must be able to order an alternate residence. The rights of the child must take precedence over those of the parents. Alternative residence should be explicitly excluded when one of the parents of the child has been convicted as the perpetrator, co-author or accomplice of a crime against the person of the other parent. Today, children are not adequately protected in the case of separation for domestic violence. In many cases, separation procedures are distinct from actions for domestic violence, which is detrimental to the interests of the child. The role of the judge must be pre-eminent and decisive in these separations and in decisions on residence or alternate custody. Excluding the judge from this type of application is not in the child's interest. That is why I am defending this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u181	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u182	As in the Committee on Laws, I am of course expressing an unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 21, since it is intended to reverse the very principle of the bill, by making residence at the home of one of the parents the principle and shared residence the exception. It is no more or less a question of calling into question the specific contribution of the text: I can only be unfavourable. Furthermore, you expect that the judge may order an alternate residence when the child is over the age of 7: why this age? Ms Boyer mentioned the entry into sixth grade, 11 years ago. Pedopsychiatrists evoke age for some 5 years, for others 3 years. The judge must be left with the inconclusive assessment. At the same age, children are not in the same situation. That the law sets an age at which it would be possible to imagine a shared residence seems to me dangerous and contrary to both the interests of the child and the role of the family judge, contrary to what you claim. Thus, our system further defends the rights of children, their interests...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u183	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u184	... and the right of the judge to say, in such a concrete situation, what is best for them. Contrary to these three amendments, the reform we are proposing is designed to encourage parents to better perceive their co-responsibility towards their children, in the context of what is called co-parentality. This is not about the rights of parents, contrary to what you claim, but about the child's right to benefit from the presence of both parents. We believe that the father and mother have the same importance, the same authority, and that the child does not belong to either, but first to himself. I repeat, the child must benefit from the presence of both parents. Mr Breton, you spoke of harm to the child in the event of alternating residence, and you stressed the need for stability. We have sometimes heard, on the contrary, that being deprived of one of his parents, especially his father, could be dangerous, especially for some teenagers. On the other hand, contrary to what you said, Ms. Boyer, we have found no evidence in the international scientific literature of any particular disorders affecting children in alternate residence. It cannot be said that in Belgium, children who have benefited from the alternative residence since 2006 are particularly psychotic, unmarked or more vulnerable than before.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u185	In Belgium, it is the judge who approves the agreements!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u186	I do not think that there are any scientific arguments to this effect. That is why I will obviously be obliged to give an unfavorable opinion to these three amendments. The authors also referred to situations in which one of the parents was reportedly convicted as the perpetrator, co-author or accomplice of a crime against the person of the other parent. This case is already dealt with in article 378 of the Civil Code on the withdrawal of parental authority, which states: "Parents who are convicted, either as perpetrators, co-sponsors or accomplices of a crime or offence committed against the person of their child, or as co-sponsors or accomplices of a crime or offence committed by their child, or as perpetrators, co-sponsors or accomplices of a crime committed against the person of the other parent, may be totally removed from parental authority by an express decision of the criminal court. Thus, protection already exists in the civil code: there is no need to repeat it. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the issue of the age of the child should not be addressed in the law, since not all psychology teachers, child psychiatrists and early childhood professionals agree on the age at which shared residence should be promoted. That is why we would prefer this issue to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, as part of a realistic approach based on facts that will be valued by the family judge. Unfavorable opinion on all amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u188	Amendment No 21 tabled by Mr Breton seeks, on the one hand, to establish the principle that the residence of a child must, in the event of parental separation, be prioritised by one of his parents in his main capacity, and, on the other hand, to make alternative residence a framed exception. This amendment therefore introduces a hierarchy of residence arrangements which we do not consider desirable. As has been repeated many times in this Chamber, it is appropriate to leave to the family judge the whole panel of possibilities available to enable him to retain the one which he considers most appropriate for the interests of the child concerned, taking into account, as you wish, the circumstances of his family situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u189	The amendment leaves the possibility for the judge to order an alternate residence on an exceptional basis!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u190	When deciding on the manner of residence, the judge shall take into account the age of the child and the situation of the parents. To the extent that this amendment runs counter to a case-by-case examination, we are naturally against it. I believe that a large number of Members will join us in this position, because it corresponds to what they have been defending for a long time. Mr Breton, by your amendment No 14, you also wish to lay down the principle that the residence of a child must, in the event of parental separation, be given priority by one of his or her parents. While the Government shares your concern to protect the child, particularly in situations of domestic violence, such a prioritization of residency is not desirable. I repeat, it is appropriate to leave the whole panel of family judges with the possibilities available to enable them to select the solutions which they consider most appropriate. Thus, if a parent has been convicted, it will be up to the judge to decide whether it is preferable to set only a right of access or to temporarily suspend contact with the child. In any event, when deciding on the manner of residence, the judge shall take into account all the data relating to the life of the child. Unfavorable opinion. Finally, Mrs Boyer's amendment No 40 tends to limit the use of alternate residence, in particular by requiring that it be limited in its duration and that it be possible only in certain circumstances when ordered by a judge. However, the whole panel should be left with existing possibilities. You recalled, Mrs. Boyer, the importance of the family judge. We agree with you, but it should also be recalled that this judge may be seized again if the family situation has changed and the manner of a child's residence needs to be reviewed. Moreover, it is clear that a context of domestic violence will be taken into account decisively. While it is true that alternative residence cannot be in the interests of all children in all situations, the limitations proposed in this amendment do not appear desirable. We are therefore against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u191	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u192	If we were discussing the alternate residence on an equal time basis with each parent, I would indeed understand that we are having these discussions on the age of the child. We could then ask ourselves: is this solution suitable for a child aged 3 years, 6, 7, 11 years? During the hearings, we heard a lot of different opinions. At the end, we would probably conclude by deciding to leave it to the judge to decide on this issue according to each particular situation. However, we are not talking about the joint alternate residence but about the administrative residence of the child. If a father or mother is not recognized as the child's habitual residence, how could he obtain social housing with an additional room to accommodate his children every other weekend or every other week? It's hard. Similarly, how could he request a preferential rate from the swimming pool or register it for tennis courses reserved for the inhabitants of the village? It's kind of complicated. I am talking to you about concrete cases – so you see that symbolic issues can take on a very concrete dimension in the lives of our fellow citizens. The principle of double residence could therefore not only appease divorces, by its symbolic aspect, but also have immediate and qualitative effects in the lives of many separated parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u193	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I hear your arguments, but we must not be hypocritical either! Remember the spirit of the original version of this text. The axis has been deported to the question of the child's residence, but the result is the same: it is a question of determining where the child will live in the long term. For the sake of clarity of our debate, we must raise this subject – it was still the original intention of the text, and it is not because you use certain words to mitigate it that you will succeed in erasing it. The role of national representation is to defend the interests of the child, and therefore to consider the consequences of the affirmation of the principle of "double residence" when originally referred to as alternating custody. I am surprised that no opinion has been requested on this text, either from the Council of State, from the High Council for the Family, from the National Fund for Family Allowances, or from the delegation to women's rights whose president is present here. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Today, the Government promises us a draft law on the family. We should wait for this future discussion. I can see that this debate is going on, and perhaps it will stop at some point... In any case, the interests of children should be defended and these provisions should be discussed in good conditions. After Mrs Pau Langevin, who has left our Chamber, I also want to quote Montesquieu.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u195	Again?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u196	[[Exclaims on the banks of the REM and MODEM groups]] You must only touch the laws with a shaking hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u197	Leave Montesquieu where he is!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u198	I think Montesquieu should inspire us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u199	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u200	Reference is made to the administrative residence of the child, which would be the subject of this text. I note, however, that we are essentially talking about accommodation and childcare, and that there is considerable confusion in our discussions and in the text itself. This confusion, which seems to me to be deliberately maintained, could be totally contrary to the interests of women and children. Poisonous fathers exist, and it is especially on these cases that we must linger. When everything goes well, there's no problem! We need to look at cases where this is going wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u201	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u202	So, when fathers are poisonous, perverted narcissistic, psychologically abusive, I fear that they can use our debates and this deliberate confusion between residence, custody, home and home to prolong their grip on women.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u203	You're the one who's got the confusion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u204	Contrary to what I have heard, alternate custody does not appease violence. Rather, I think it prolongs them: for a number of toxic individuals, alternating custody is a way to continue the violence, which repeats itself every time the child moves from one parent to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u206	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Attention: the text is extremely ambiguous and confusing. Our debates are confused. I fear that they may not be used against women and against the interests of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u207	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u208	I call on the authors of this bill to take on the content of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u209	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u210	If you assume that this text favours alternate custody, as it was its original object, it is necessary that it be much better tied, much better written, much more serious and responsible, because it deals with the protection of children. I therefore appeal to your responsibility. If you don't accept it, it's just a display text, intended to advance mentalities. We've seen more. But in this case, I propose that you organize a great campaign to promote alternate custody!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u211	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u212	There's information campaigns! There is no point in debating a bill that today does not stand up and respect the rights of the child. Third point: it happens that fathers who have, in a way, abandoned their post – because it is, I am sorry, mostly the fact of fathers, much more than mothers – want to reinvest this role later, in the framework of associations, for example. We must then be able to accompany them, because we want children to be able to see both parents when possible. This requires more support, including at the time of divorce. Thus, when court decisions are made, the intervention of psychologists and child psychologists is necessary in order to better accompany the parents. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] These are proposals that can advance a child-friendly and co-parental approach to child care. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say to you that a bill such as the one we are considering really endangers children and co-parentality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give the floor to four more speakers, and we will stop there for these amendments. Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u214	I agree with what has just been said. If we are talking today about alternating custody, it is because this text originally referred to it. And now this debate ends in grief, with the alternate residence. Using this evening of parliamentary work to discuss this helps to make laws both talkative and unhelpful, as I said in my previous remarks. We mentioned earlier, since we like this kind of benchmarking here, which is happening in other European countries. I will therefore recall certain practices established by our neighbours. Many Western countries have in fact adopted legislation advocating joint parental authority after the separation of parents, but almost all have rejected the presumption of a systematic alternate residence, and especially the division of the child's time into two equal parts. In Denmark and Finland, for example, MEPs have passed a new law prohibiting the imposition by default of half-splitting on married couples who divorce, saying that this new law will place more emphasis on children's rights, rather than on those of parents: it is clear that they have returned. In Quebec, the judges – again they! – determine the elements that constitute the best interests of the child: the "main" parental figure – it is not equality –, the absence of conflict, the personal involvement of the parents, the availability, the existence of good communication between the parents and, finally, the preference expressed by the child. In Belgium, the country you mentioned earlier, the rapporteur, it is the judge who approves parental agreements. The same applies to Italy. In many countries, therefore, there are safeguards based on the fact that the right of the child takes precedence over the right of the parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u215	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u216	The fact that recourse to a judge is exceptional in this text poses a substantive problem. I'm totally against it. I consider that the judge must rule systematically. The situation is quite paradoxical: parents who separate and who do not agree to agree on administrative problems or on the residence of the child are asked! In conclusion, alternative residence should be optional, and should not be the basic principle. That was the object...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u217	Thank you, ma'am, Boyer. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u218	We are accused of causing confusion, but this confusion comes from the text itself. I recall that the first version was entitled "Proposal for a law on the principle of alternate custody of children". We didn't write it like that! Similarly, the first part of the report states that "although the use of alternative residence is increasing, it remains marginal in France".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u219	It's a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u220	So we can see where the confusion comes from. While the drafter of this bill initially gave him coherence, this coherence is not now taken over by his group or by the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u221	Obviously!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u222	That is where the problem lies. All those who watch us live and who have expectations or concerns in this area can be disappointed by the content of our discussions. Indeed, the presentation of this text has raised expectations, but the expected developments are not happening. And if the debates drag on, it is because the majority do not accept this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u223	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u224	So far, the discussions have been very high and have remained courteous. I therefore do not understand this idea of confusion. MODEM and part of the majority defend this text by saying that its purpose is not the alternating residence, but the residence of the child at the home of both parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u225	We had to do another text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u226	We can change the title!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u227	There are great differences of appreciation in what one wants to understand, and you insist, for your part, on alternating residence. Nevertheless, the debate was courteous. But now we're talking about "toxic fathers." I'm sorry, I can't let you say that, ma'am. There are toxic fathers, it's true, and I know of them...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u228	Mothers too, by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u229	...but there are also manipulative mothers, who make their children suffer a real mental alienation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u230	It exists, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u231	We've got to tie them both up.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u232	That's why there's a judge!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u233	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u234	This must not be exceptional!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u235	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Mrs Boyer, not only have we not erased the role of the judge, but we have strengthened it. You do not want to hear it, but it is still the reality of what is written in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u236	We have to stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u237	I find it a pity that the debates are going a little too hard, but I know I won't be able to convince you. Ms. Abadie referred to the details of everyday life. Let me give another example: when a mother or father, either or both, does not have permanent custody of his child,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u238	Custody?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u239	... after a while, the national education loses its address strangely and this parent no longer receives news of his child's education.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u240	If he takes her to school in the morning, it doesn't happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u241	Joint domiciliation...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u242	Domiciliation or domicile?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u243	[[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] Establishing a child's home for both parents would at least make it possible to hear from his or her children when they are in school.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u244	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u245	Following Mr Millienne, I note that we have had very calm and interesting debates. For my part, it took me time to form an opinion on this issue, which needs to be matured. At this late hour, I regret that the rules oblige us to suspend this debate soon, because it probably takes time to assimilate it. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] If, however, there is one thing that, before or after this text, does not change the law, it is indeed the best interests of the child and the role of the judge. There may be cases of toxic parents, no matter how they are expressed, but they are under the jurisdiction of the judge. Yes, I do! If a parent is toxic, the judge will identify the parent and make the appropriate decisions in the best interests of the child. What is invariant, before or after this text, is the confidence that one must have in the judge to assess the best interests of the child. The existence of a judge's assessment is relevant enough that this text does not change it. I do not understand that a decision taken in the best interests of the child may change depending on whether it is taken before or after this text: it is of a different order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u246	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u247	This amendment tends to delete paragraph 2 of Article 1. There is some confusion here, and the people who look at us may find it difficult to understand exactly what we are discussing. It is not a question of questioning the intentions of each one, but of understanding how, including in the Statement of Reasons, the treatment of home ownership will address the important issues of co-parentality and accountability.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u248	What about the alternate guard?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u249	We are told that it is a matter of ensuring that the letters of national education arrive to the parents: is there a need for a law which, as noted and acknowledged by some of the amendments tabled today, will cause or is likely to cause more problems than other provisions? You cited the 2002 Act, which endorsed the issue of co-parentality. It is a good law, a positive law, which contains important elements on issues of education and responsibility. What is basically lacking in this law to test the need to pass a bill to add a symbol – because we're talking about symbols about simple administrative measures? Confusion is not maintained by us or others, but it is at the very heart of what presided over the writing of this text. In all responsibility, as Mrs Faucillon said, we cannot, as it stands, vote for such a bill, the use of which we do not know. Despite the assertions and amendments, the risks that have been identified can lead to situations that are even more serious than those that exist, even if that is in the minority of cases. Thus, despite what the minister said, establishing a prerequisite for alternating residence amounts to prioritizing it and putting a constraint into decisions that, until then, took place without these prerequisites.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u250	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u251	Mrs Obono, you persist in your passion for this bill. Your amendment is essentially aimed at deleting the principle of double residence. It has been understood that you are opposed to this measure and you are referring to arguments that we have already put forward. If you were talking about tax issues, we could have talked more specifically about the half-part, which, in principle, benefits the parent who actually cares for the longest child. And with regard to social benefits, the Government intends to table an amendment. On the contrary of you, we believe that this text improves the responsibility and co-parentality of both parents and that, contrary to what you say, it does not put the child at risk or aggravate the situation, including that of women. I therefore do not understand why you insist on requesting the withdrawal of this principle. Minister, the time is ticking and I take this opportunity to tell you that we would need more recent statistics than we currently have, which are from the spring of 2012. We are soon in 2018 and would certainly need, in order to enrich future debates on these issues, more recent statistics than those we always mention. To return to the amendment tabled by Mrs Obono, I am obviously expressing an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u252	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u253	Mr rapporteur, I have heard your request: I will pass on your wish to obtain new statistics to better assess the situation and to continue the debate to the attention of the Commissioner. Of course, I do not agree with the amendment. And since the time is coming and I am taking the floor for the last time – at least tonight, at least I hope so! (Sighs) – I want to say that this bill has had the merit of raising an important issue. We have heard a lot about the best interests of the child, and this vision, this ambition, is shared by all. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I thank all those who tried to understand the meaning of this bill; and at the same time, it interested me to hear the different "interpretations," let's say that, which were made of it. In any case, the discussions have been interesting, at a good level, and we hope that in this period of promoting equality between men and women it will always be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u254	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u255	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to react to the opinions of the rapporteur and the minister. The rapporteur raises one important point: we need data. The text discussed deals with the consequences of separations and divorces and, as legislators, it is up to us to reflect on the undeniable phenomenon of the number of divorces: almost 130,000 each year. In view of its impact on both spouses and children, we consider it essential to reflect on the prevention of this phenomenon. This essential subject should be studied. Indeed, more than one household in two separates – not everyone is necessarily married – and no one can deny the impact of these separations on children. However, studies on this impact are lacking, while the subject is so important. This impact needs to be measured in order to better respond to it. The night is a good advice: while waiting for the statistics, I wish you all a good night!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u257	Pursuant to Rule 50(4) of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the last sitting of the day shall be adjourned at one o'clock in the morning, I shall adjourn the sitting. It will therefore be for the Conference of Presidents to lay down the conditions for further discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-30-O1079.u258	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Discussion, in further reading, of the bill ending research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons. The meeting is adjourned.
