ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the expedited procedure has begun, of the bill, adopted by the Senate, extending the application of Act No. 55-385 of 3 April 1955 on a state of emergency (No. 16, 17).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u2	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u3	Mr. Chairman, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Mr. Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to introduce this morning the bill to extend the state of emergency, as amended and adopted by the Senate on Tuesday by 312 votes to 22. If the Government chose to present this draft from the beginning of the extraordinary session of Parliament, it is of course for reasons of timing – it was necessary to be able to vote on it before the scheduled end of the state of emergency on 15 July next – but it is also a way of symbolically asserting that, for this government, security is a priority and that the French will always find in it a guarantee of public tranquillity. I would like to thank the Chair of the Law Committee, Yaël Braun-Pivet, and the rapporteur of the text, Didier Paris, for the work they have done. I would also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for being so numerous in the House of Commons for considering this important bill, the first of the quinquennium discussed in public in the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, I reminded your honourable senators on Tuesday that our country has been living for two and a half years a wave of attacks unprecedented in its history: 239 people lost their lives in eight attacks; 900 others were injured, some of them fighting to find a normal existence. The Prime Minister stressed this on Tuesday in this rostrum: this period, opened in January 2015 – and even in 2012, considering the attack perpetrated by Mohamed Merah in Toulouse – is still under way, as the terrorist threat remains at an extremely high level. We have seen this, first of all, with the attacks in neighbouring countries. I am thinking of Germany, where the Berlin market and the Düsseldorf station were attacked this winter. I am also thinking of Sweden, bereaved by the Stockholm bombing, and Russia, which was marked by the explosion of the Saint Petersburg metro. Finally, I am thinking of the United Kingdom, of course, with the attacks on Westminster and, very recently, those on Manchester and London. Several attacks – or attempts – have also occurred on our soil. Everyone obviously has in mind the attack on the Champs-Elysées, which, on 20 April, cost the lives of one of our policemen, Xavier Jourlé. In the same way, we are thinking of the attempts that took place on the parvis of Notre-Dame on June 5, and on the Champs-Élysées on June 19 – the latter could have been very deadly if it had succeeded. In addition, the information available to our intelligence services indicates that, despite Daesh's retreat on the Iraqi and Syrian fronts and, to a lesser extent, in Libya, the organization's ability to strike Europe and France remains intact. First, the risk of action by individuals returning from the combat zones is real, even if, for the moment, control of the Turkish border is holding back such ambitions. Second, there may be more cases of isolated individuals, who, at any time, are likely to quickly radicalize and suddenly act by means of operating methods that, if they are rudimentary, remain very deadly. The threat is therefore established at a high level; I see him every day as Minister of the Interior. That is why we are now proposing the extension of the state of emergency. As you know, the state of emergency has been in force in our country since the terrible night of November 13, 2015. It has been extended five times since, each time with the broad support of the National Assembly. In particular, it gives the prefects the possibility to order administrative searches or to close places of worship, and the minister of the interior the possibility to decide on house arrest. It also gives – less well known – the possibility of establishing protection or security zones for certain major events, but also the possibility of seizing weapons. I sometimes hear – and this is normal – questions about the real state of emergency. Some doubt its real effectiveness, on the grounds that it would not have prevented further attacks. So I suggest that you give, as I have done before honourable senators, some data on the record of nearly twenty-one month of a state of emergency. Firstly, without the establishment of eighty zones of protection or security permitted by the state of emergency, it would probably not have been possible to hold events in our country such as the Tour de France, the major music festivals of the summer or, of course, the Euro 2016, which gave in this period so much happiness to our compatriots. Contrary to what some may think, a state of emergency is, therefore, not an infringement of freedoms, but a means of preserving them. Indeed, it was the state of emergency that allowed the French to continue to attend major sports shows and events. It was the state of emergency that helped to defend our way of life, the one that the terrorists intended to call into question. Secondly, the closures of places of worship in which statements are made inciting the commission of terrorist acts. Since the implementation of the state of emergency, 16 such administrative closures have been declared. Sixteen closed places of worship may seem modest. Yet, this is an important figure if it is related to the number of people who could have radicalized by listening to fanatical preaching. I am therefore pleased that a fair balance has been struck between the preservation of freedom of worship and strong action, so as not to increase the number of candidates for jihad in the country. This is proof of the real maturity of our democracy. I now come to an important provision, which reports directly to the Minister of the Interior: house arrest. Although, in the aftermath of the Paris and Saint-Denis attacks, it has sometimes been widely used, it has become a very targeted and relevant use. Today, in our country, only sixty-two people are under house arrest. They all have the opportunity to challenge this measure before the administrative judge. So we are far away, ladies and gentlemen, from the massive deprivation of liberty that some people sometimes want to denounce. Finally, the last important element of the assessment: administrative searches. This is an essential tool for preventing terrorist acts. A few figures are sufficient to measure this: the 4400 searches carried out since the entry into force of the state of emergency have resulted in the seizure of 600 weapons, including 78 weapons of war. They also directly prevented 17 attacks in 2016, plus at least seven attacks that had been foiled since the beginning of the year. They have thus hindered the growth of certain networks and cells whose development would certainly have posed serious dangers for our compatriots. Yes, administrative searches have, most of the time, proved to be very effective. I would add that they are now carried out in a very targeted manner, since, since the last extension, less than one search per day has been ordered on our territory. [[Applause on all benches]] Perimeters of protection, closure of places of worship, house arrest, searches: you see, if the state of emergency has not allowed to eradicate the terrorist threat – the zero risk does not exist – it has proved to be of great and profound utility. That is why I want to pay tribute at this moment, as I did in the Senate, to the police, gendarmes, the military, the judicial authorities and all the government departments that have ensured its proper implementation. [[Same movements]] I know what these months have supposed for them of personal commitment and sacrifice in order to be able to carry out their professional duty and protect the French. Your applause is the nation's recognition of the work they have done, preventing many attacks, which has certainly saved dozens, if not hundreds of lives. I understand, of course, those who oppose this state of emergency, arguing that it would violate freedoms. I have already mentioned the very targeted way in which the means of the state of emergency are now being used. I also want to ask those who doubt to imagine for a moment that the state of emergency has not been in force in recent months. No state of emergency, this would have meant, for example, that in December 2016 the security forces could not have searched Toulouse: we would then have missed the arrest of the leader of a group which, together with another individual, was preparing a violent action on the territory, for the realization of which we found weapons and ammunition. No state of emergency, it would have meant that we could not have searched the Alpes-Maritimes last April, and that we could not have known what would have happened to this fifteen-year-old girl who was found to be planning a gas bomb at a polling station. No state of emergency, it would also have meant that we could not have searched in Marseille at the end of December 2016 and thus seized firearms and kilos of explosives intended to carry out an attack during a political meeting, an attack that would undoubtedly have raised the French against each other. It would also have meant that we could not have stopped those who were planning such an attack. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the state of emergency, we are not only in theory, in the Tribnitian posture or in the verb: we are talking about terrorists arrested, attacks avoided and lives saved. That is what I ask you to bear in mind in the debate that will follow. As you know, the extension we are proposing is of short duration, since it will end in three and a half months. This is also the last extension you will be asked to adopt this government. For, despite its effectiveness, which I have just mentioned, we are fully aware that, by definition, the state of emergency is not intended to be a permanent state. Despite the increasingly strict control over it, we are also fully aware of its sometimes legitimate concerns about respect for freedoms. It is for these reasons that, at the request of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, I have developed, with my services, a scenario of a controlled exit from the state of emergency. Thus, in the coming days, I will introduce to you – I began to do so yesterday before the Senate Law Commission – another bill that will aim at strengthening internal security. Its objective will be twofold: to increase the effectiveness of our efforts to prevent and combat terrorism on the basis of the needs expressed by the services, but with the constant desire to strictly restrict the new measures to the fight against terrorism alone, under conditions far more targeted than in times of emergency, which will allow maximum guarantees to be provided for the preservation of our individual and collective freedoms. Our obsession – I know you share it – is always the same: better fight against terrorism to better protect our fellow citizens. For if, of course, one had to have the will to respect public freedoms, the French would not understand that, in the face of an enemy who admits no other rule than hatred and barbarism, the State would disarm itself unilaterally. Ladies and gentlemen, for many of you new deputies, this is the first piece of legislation on which you have to vote. From the outset, you measure what your vote is important. From the outset, you can see that it will translate into very concrete consequences from tomorrow, in order to continue the fight against terrorism and ensure the protection of the French. The benches of this assembly have had long and rich debates in history, often opposing freedom and security, with the idea that the progression of one would always be at the expense of the other. Well, I hope that together we share another vision, which breaks with these controversies, asserting forcefully that, for us here, freedom and security are not opposed, that these are two intrinsically linked values; When we act to strengthen security, we do not remove freedoms, we preserve them, we sometimes create new ones. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC and LR groups]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill massively. The French ask us for their safety and protection. Let us collectively live up to their expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u4	I call Mr Didier Paris, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u5	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, France has been living under the regime of a state of emergency since the attacks which struck it on 13 November 2015 and which are still very much present in our memories. This is France's eighth state of emergency, since it was during the events in Algeria that the first were adopted. The threat is persistent, it remains real. The list of attacks that have regularly taken place over the past twenty months on our soil proves, if necessary, its magnitude. I will not recall, minister, what you referred to. However, I would like to make a number of points. First point: the attacks of 18 March in Orly, 20 April on the Champs-Élysées, 6 June in Notre-Dame or 19 June in Paris systematically targeted the police or gendarmerie forces. The second point is that the activities of terrorists are characterized by an economy of means, which makes them very difficult to detect a priori. The third and final point: we often have to deal with recent radicalisation and therefore with relatively short preparatory phases, which makes it even more difficult and complex for the security forces to act on our territory. Unfortunately, our country is not alone in being a victim of terrorism. The United Kingdom was once again the target in London. I will also mention Germany, Russia, Sweden or Belgium, our neighbour: the attacks on the Brussels station are still in all memory. The day after the attack in Manchester, the President of the Republic decided, after meeting with the Defence and Internal Security Council, to refer a bill to Parliament to extend the state of emergency until 1 November 2017. That is the text we are considering today. If this is, as you know, the sixth extension, it is, however, of a different essence, since it is intended to ensure the transition to a strengthened protection regime, of course, but under ordinary law. What can we draw from the current phase of the state of emergency? I will only refer to the very last quantified balance sheet of the fifth extension, since December 19, 2016 – the date of promulgation of the last law. I will not repeat the figures given by the Minister of the Interior: they are sufficiently eloquent. The 1955 Act provides for 11 measures or categories of measures. They have been regularly improved, supplemented and modified, including in the context of discussions prior to the previous five states of emergency. Among the most emblematic are, since December 19, 2016, 62 house arrest, 161 administrative searches, 48 bans on residence, closures of sites or meeting places, 2148 identity checks, baggage searches and vehicle visits – out of a total of 4000 since the adoption of this measure – as well as bans on demonstrations and the establishment of protection or security zones. Popular gatherings must take place in safety: freedom of assembly is a fundamental freedom that must be covered by special protective measures put in place by the security services in the context of a state of emergency. These figures have, in the raw state, a reduced meaning. Indeed, they only give an imperfect account of the actual effectiveness of the measures deployed. How many attacks or beginnings of execution have been thwarted? No one knows exactly, even though the minister has quoted a few figures that have their full value. Beyond that, however, we must take into account the reality of every terrorist, every being who commits such abject acts. This regime of exceptional powers must, according to the formula of the Council of State, have limited effects in time and space. It was accompanied, as soon as it was implemented in 2015, by the institution of parliamentary scrutiny, which we have operated on numerous occasions. It allows Parliament to be informed without delay about the implementation and the stocktaking of the measures taken, or even to request information, if it fails to reach Parliament with sufficient speed – this has not happened. The exit of the state of emergency, within a reasonable time, is one of the security objectives implemented in our country. But it is a controlled exit, a form of relay passage, in any case a transition. The security of French soil cannot tolerate legal loopholes or operational voids. No break in the protection of our citizens or our soil can be accepted. However, the protection of individual freedoms requires, at the same time, the transfer into ordinary law of certain tools inspired by the law of 3 April 1955, but surrounded by strengthened guarantees. In addition, they will only apply when "the particular exposure to a risk of terrorism requires it". It is all the coherence of the legal framework that you have recalled, Minister of State, and that is proposed to us: a short first law, of which we have to know today, which contains only three articles and extends the state of emergency until 1 November next, and a second substantive law "enhancing internal security and the fight against terrorism", which will establish a strengthened legal regime under common law. Both texts were tabled on the office of the Senate on June 22. The prorogation act passed by the Senate is the subject of our business today. The substantive law is under consideration by the Senate, which is due to adopt it at first reading at the end of July. This will allow us to start working on this text without delay, quickly appointing a rapporteur and reviewing the bill as soon as we resume our work in early September. As I said, the bill to extend the state of emergency is short. Article 1 extends the state of emergency until 1 November, as it states that it may be terminated by decree in the Council of Ministers before the expiry of that period. This is important given the timing of our discussions. In this case, of course, this will be reported to Parliament – this is one of the elements of parliamentary scrutiny that we discussed earlier. Article 1 expressly authorizes administrative searches, in so far as the Act of 3 April 1955 requires that each extension of the state of emergency confirms the administrative search authorization granted as from 13 November 2015. In this regard, the Senate has specified that the extension will take place from July 16 at zero hour, in order to remove a small uncertainty due to the precise sequence of the phases of the state of emergency. Article 2, resulting from an amendment adopted by the Senate but resulting from an initiative of the Government itself, draws the consequences of the recent decision of the Constitutional Council of 9 June 2017. This decision was made in the context of a priority issue of constitutionality – QPC – which shows how this procedure has greatly strengthened the particular and effective role of the Constitutional Council, both in the drafting and enforcement phases of the law. For example, the Constitutional Council has censored the residence bans as they could apply to any person who obstructs the action of the public authorities within a perimeter that may include the home and the workplace. In these circumstances, the Constitutional Council considered that the balance between the objective of safeguarding public order and the right to normal family and professional life was not sufficient. This balance is, of course, one of the pillars of the internal security law that we will examine in a few weeks' time. The new provision of Article 2 responds point by point to the criticisms of the High Court, without seeking in any way to avoid it. It restricts the scope of the stay ban to "any person for whom there are substantial grounds for believing that his or her conduct constitutes a threat to public safety and order". Similarly, measures must take into account the family and professional life of the persons concerned. We have somehow incorporated into positive law the recommendations whose implementation had been delayed until 15 July in order to avoid the legal or operational vacuum to which I have already referred and allow the new law to take them into consideration. Article 3 extends these measures to communities governed by the principle of legislative speciality, i.e. the Wallis and Futuna Islands, French Polynesia, New Caledonia and the French Southern and Antarctic Lands. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LC group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have not tabled any substantive amendments because that is not the purpose of this bill – so the Law Commission has not passed any. I will advise against substantive amendments on a subject beyond the scope of this bill, which is limited to extending the state of emergency until November 1, 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u6	It's too short!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u7	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u8	What about the tie?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u9	Mr Minister of State, first of all I would like to associate myself with the comments you have made with regard to police officers, gendarmes, magistrates, the military, all those who work daily to protect us and prevent terrorist acts on our soil. It seems to me extremely important to remind him. I also have a thought for all the victims of the terrorist acts committed on our soil and for their loved ones. Even though we have been able to help them right after the attacks, I would like to say here that we need to follow up all these people and pay particular attention to them. That's what we'll do. I stand before you for a motion to reject the bill extending the state of emergency. I tell you at the outset, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, that we are the only consistent and responsible opposition in this House – opposition not only to the majority, but above all to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u10	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u11	If you need proof, here's one.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u12	In fact, in opposition, you're just throwing flowers at yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u13	You are asking us to vote urgently on the state of emergency. It's still a big deal! The current state of emergency will end on 15 July. Why so much haste? In the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, my colleagues in the Group of the Republicans had asked to hear from you, Mr. Minister of State, in order to have all the information to give us a serious, responsible and serious opinion on this subject. Obviously, this has not been possible, and it is only now that we hear you, without being able to ask you any questions or have a serious debate with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u15	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u16	We could have considered this text next week: our debate would have taken place before the fateful date of 15 July. But obviously, it's different. Earlier, Mr. Minister of State, you said that it was "symbolically" necessary to extend the state of emergency, before explaining to us that basically it was the operational that was important. Indeed, it is the operational that is important! There is no symbolism in this story. And if there is a symbol, it is indeed that of ensuring respect for the rule of law in which we are, which we defend and which is precisely the target of terrorist acts. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Minister of State, I have identified in your speech the usual syllogism that we hear here and there: if there is no attack, it is thanks to the state of emergency, so we must extend it. And if there's an attack, then we need to strengthen the state of emergency to prevent others. In other words, a permanent state of emergency must be established. This puts you in a certain difficulty, Minister of State: you must defend in the gallery both the need for a state of emergency and the need to leave the state of emergency, with absolutely contradictory arguments! Your arguments may also turn against you when we arrive on 1 November, at the end of the extension of the state of emergency that you are asking us to vote today. I would like to raise before you the responsibility that we must show in this situation. Indeed, it is irresponsible to make it appear that it is by prolonging the state of emergency ad vitam aeternam that terrorist acts are prevented. You did it earlier, though.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u17	It's just a three-month extension!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u18	No one can say that under the state of emergency, there will be no terrorist act. Similarly, no one can say that without a state of emergency, there will be tons of terrorist acts. I challenge you to prove the opposite. We must be serious about these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u19	That's why we're serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u20	You're the one who's irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u21	Do not treat each other as supposed partners of terrorists, depending on their position.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u22	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u23	In reality, we must ask a question that is never asked: the operational means used to deal with terrorist attacks and acts. This issue is not raised in this text, let alone in the bill you were talking about earlier. [[Murmures]] You could ask me who I am, basically, to tell you about the state of emergency. Already, I'm a member of the nation, just like you. I am also a member of the Law Committee, before which you have not spoken, Minister of State. Besides, I do not come from anywhere: I am a senior executive of the Ministry of the Interior, co-editor of the thematic booklet on the security of our programme "L'Avenir en commun", which I invite you to read because it is full of good proposals. This booklet was written with active national police personnel of all ranks – commissioners, commanders, peacekeepers – along with researchers and intelligence specialists. I return to the substantive question of how justice and the rule of law can be effective against terrorist acts. I say this to judicial police officers, specialized magistrates and intelligence personnel: our proposals would give you all the means you need to deal with terrorist acts, while guaranteeing the individual freedoms of everyone. In essence, the question is: without a state of emergency, could we also have prevented terrorist acts? Are there not specialized services, magistrates, anti-terrorist judges who are able to initiate proceedings, initiate investigations, order administrative searches and issue house arrest? Doesn't that exist? I can see that there are not enough of them – that is why we are trying to make administrative shortcuts to save time in the face of the lack of resources... We have some weaknesses, which are regularly mentioned by specialists. It's about capturing weak signals. That is why it may be urgent to ask the question of community policing, which would provide first-class human intelligence. The merger of general information with the Territorial Surveillance Directorate, the DST, should also be reviewed. This issue is not mentioned in this bill, let alone in the one you will be submitting to us at the beginning of the year. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] You give in to the blush of "all-technology," but when you listen to everything, you don't hear anything. And when I say that, I don't think about station halls... I solemnly say to you, Minister of State: if we want to increase our resources, to recruit staff, there is an urgent need to reopen police schools: there are only ten in France, whereas there were twenty-five in the past. How do you want to recruit people without reopening police schools, if not by continuing what has been done previously, that is, by shortening the duration of the training? Do we want police officers trained on the go-ahead, while they wear uniforms, a weapon, and they have responsibilities? No! On the contrary, we propose in our thematic booklet to extend the length of the education of police officers, so that they are better equipped to deal with all the situations they have to know in their working lives. Another problem, quite unknown, is the loss of evidence. As part of administrative intelligence efforts, it may be necessary to place microphones in a car or in an office – all this is not known – but no judicial investigation has been opened and no magistrate supervises these steps. Therefore, nothing heard in this context can be used against those who have spoken these words. It is only after the transmission of these elements to a magistrate that an investigation can be opened: therefore, the magistrate asks for a microphone to be placed in the course of a procedure, and this time, everything that the micro-captera can be used. [[Murmurs on several benches of the REM group]] I am told that this would sometimes be the same microphone, whereas the procedure would like the intelligence services who put the first microphone to remove it and another to be placed in the judicial proceedings. I can't imagine that our services are doing this: rather, we are drawing up minutes that will make it possible to settle all this in good intelligence. It's not serious! Why does the judicial judge not supervise this procedure from the beginning, which would ensure an effective fight against terrorist acts while guaranteeing our individual freedoms?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u24	Very relevant remark!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u25	This is a very important point, ladies and gentlemen. It's not a sideline: listen to the anti-terrorist judges, the magistrates, the judiciary union. Another of the issues raised by the state of emergency is the assistance to other victims: those of its collateral damage. As you know, we don't find a terrorist behind every door we break. Sometimes, first of all, we get the wrong door.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u26	It can happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u27	What will be your reaction, Mr. Ciotti, if we break your door tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u28	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u29	We're at war with terrorists!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u30	We're not at war with ours, I hope!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u31	War on our doorstep?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u32	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] If we are at war against terrorist acts, it is these acts that must be targeted. There are now – at least that's what I'm hoping for – compensation procedures, but sometimes they're a little long, not to mention the other damage: if we broke your door by mistake, the whole neighborhood thinks you're a putative terrorist. Hello, ambiance! Most of the people involved eventually move. This is serious! We're talking about our fellow citizens. In addition, the use of the state of emergency for reasons other than anti-terrorism has been made in police cases where it has been used to speed up some procedures and dismantle some drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u33	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u34	We're making two shots with one stone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u35	Why not, but we are still in the rule of law and this is not the subject of the state of emergency – unless I have misread it. I would also like to refer to Amnesty International's report, which covered 155 prohibitions of protest and 639 individual prohibitions of protest in various forms, including 21 for COP21...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u36	What does terrorism have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u37	... – I would have to explain to myself, indeed, the relationship with the terrorists! – and 574 for the labour law – you remember the demonstrations it provoked. We warn you, Minister of State: we will be very vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u38	From the first day!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u39	There will be mobilizations in the fall about labour code orders, and I hope that the state of emergency will not be used against ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u40	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u41	I have here a thought for the activists under house arrest, including Joël Domenjoud, a member of the legal team of the Climate Coalition, which brings together 130 NGOs defending the climate, or Hugo Melchior, in Rennes, who was also assigned during the fight against the labour law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u42	What did he do?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u43	[["No! » on some benches]] Many associations have called on the Government on this issue, for example the League of Human Rights – which I hope, ladies and gentlemen, is a respectable association in your eyes. Maybe not to the right, indeed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u44	From the far right, it's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u45	[[Smiles and applause on several benches of the REM group]] ... but that is probably not what the members of the La République group think, that I think I am of good will in this House. I'm really saying it. Some specialists, such as the Union of Magistrates' Union, are offended by this extension of the state of emergency and the forthcoming text. They will have to be heard and I hope that this time, Minister of State, you will be pleased to meet us at the beginning of the work – I understand that this would be the case next week, so we can continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u46	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u47	It was said earlier that it was important, and that it was the will of the President of the Republic, to circumscribe measures relating to the state of emergency only to terrorist acts, precisely in order to avoid falling back into the lines I have just described. So will we wait for the next law, at the end of September, or will we now, as part of this extension of the state of emergency, take measures to limit it to terrorist acts only? I, for my part, want to see respect for the President of the Republic's will on this point now.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u48	He's wise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u49	It is wise, indeed, because the only guarantee is the judicial investigation, which preserves the arbitrariness of administrative decisions. We have tried to table amendments to limit the extension of the state of emergency by providing that house arrest or administrative searches can only be used against terrorist acts, not against political activists, trade unionists or environmentalists. That is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, because these are not categories that are legally clear enough to be included in a text. Indeed, we would then discuss for hours to define what a political activist is. I therefore return to my starting point: the only guarantee we can have is the use of an independent judge who conducts an investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u51	We are also told that if the state of emergency stops, everything will stop, the services will be disarmed and they will no longer be able to deal with terrorist acts. I do not understand this argument: before the state of emergency, we had the means to fight terrorism, and we will also have the means after the state of emergency has been lifted. There is a continuity of public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u52	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u53	We must trust the professionals, all those officials who, as you said earlier, work morning, noon and evening. They will always fight terrorist acts, regardless of the legal framework. If you give them the means, Minister of State – and I also say it to the Minister of Justice – they will be able to do so effectively. It is also necessary to stop constantly reacting to each event and to heighten, reflect and analyze. The only document available to us in the Committee on Legislation to determine whether we are in favour of extending the state of emergency is just a few pages with statistics. I expected better than statistics: academics must be allowed to seize the subject independently in order to shed light on public action by offering us an external look. At this point in my speech and in order to remove certain doubts, I would like to solemnly say, as a member of the nation, that we are neither Bisounours nor laxists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u54	All without a tie!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u55	[["That's not true! » on several benches of the REM group]] We agree to punish the assassins who attack the Republic and our values in all circumstances, but we are also opposed to the continued and ineffective extension of the state of emergency ad vitam aeternam proposed to us today. [["No! » on the benches of the REM and LR groups]] I come to parliamentary scrutiny – because there is one, set up shortly after the establishment of the state of emergency and with powers similar to those of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The role of rapporteur for this parliamentary review will be played by a member of the La République on the move and that of co-rapporteur by the opposition. When I speak of opposition, no doubt you think of me, because we are the only ones voting against the state of emergency and speaking on this issue in this rostrum,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u56	Yes! That would make sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u58	... but this role will, as it appears, go back to the Republican Group, which will, however, vote for the extension of the state of emergency. Couldn't all groups be involved in this parliamentary scrutiny? We cannot speak, with great media support, of national unity in the face of terrorism, while at the same time excluding us from the heart of the fight against terrorism and parliamentary control. We want to participate in this, to know and to help defend the nation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I shall also briefly mention foreign policy. As you know, Daesh is waging a political-military struggle against us. All countries, as you said earlier, Minister of State, are affected by terrorist acts – the Belgians, the Germans, the English, and so many others in Europe. But it must also be said that it is first and foremost the countries of the Middle East that are particularly affected, with a majority of Muslims among the victims. Don't forget it. The sources of terrorism, such as the smuggling of oil, must be tackled, about which France must position itself. I would also point out that there is still the Lafarge file.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Where are we? When are we going to ask them to be held accountable? These people collaborated with the enemy and we'd let them keep going to their jobs, doing business on the backs of our dead?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u61	They paid the assassins! We have to punish them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u62	I ask you to speak on this, Minister of State. [["Yes! » on several benches of the LR group and on some benches of the REM group]] There is still the question of taking charge of radicalisation, an area in which we are rather shy. I know there are experiments going on, but we need to go further. You can't just tell a family that detects that their child is going wrong, that they're going to social networks and watching videos of terrorists, that they just have to report it to the police. This does not seem to me to be the only appropriate response to such situations. Would you do that if it were one of your children? Wouldn't you find it smarter to try to bring these young people back to their senses?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u63	We need both of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u64	I leave it to you to think about it, because this is not an issue that is being addressed in the context of the extension of the state of emergency and its inclusion in ordinary law. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I also want to warn about the abject link that is sometimes established between working-class neighbourhoods, Islam and terrorism. There is no such link. The terrorists we had to know were of quite different origins – there was even a PhD student among them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u65	They're just thugs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u66	So I hope we're not going to fall into clichés. We must take care of this, Minister of State. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the REM group]] When we all type azimuts, the question is, basically, whether we are prepared to assume the collateral damage, to assume the fact that some of our compatriots see their door broken when they have nothing to do with it, have done nothing and will do nothing against France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u67	How many deaths have been avoided?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u68	Are we ready to pay that price? Is it a necessary evil to challenge our rule of law? [["Ah! »on the benches of the REM group]] Before I come to my conclusion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u69	But what's the matter with them? He has thirty minutes, he will speak thirty minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u70	... since I have a little time left, this is precisely the notion of time that I want to talk about now. The state of emergency as it is conceived today and its plan to enroll in the common law are used to save time to circumvent the normal legal path, which is the recourse to a magistrate. We must ask these questions in the bill, without constantly looking for circumventions, which mean that we do not even want to face the question of the lack of material and human resources of our services. That is why we have proposed an amendment to that effect, but everything has been rejected by the committee. An amendment which will be defended earlier is intended to ensure that, as soon as the state of emergency is in place, a committee is set up to assess the human and material means of exiting the state of emergency, so that it remains a state of emergency. I do not understand why this amendment was thus rejected with a backhand. We strive to be constructive,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u71	Constructive insoumis!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u72	...even if we are opposed to extending the state of emergency. I see, however, that some, in the majority, do not agree and do not want to be constructive. I'm sorry. Allow me a few quotations. Marc Trévidic, first of all, whom you probably know, a former anti-terrorist judge now in Lille – like myself, who was elected from the second northern riding – said: "the state of emergency is stupid." "The floppy administrative searches that are useless are very heavy, very derogatory to our system, for very limited efficiency. It was March 29, 2016. Georges Fenech, Member of Parliament The Republicans, Chairman of the Commission of Inquiry into the Paris bombings: "We must have the political courage to leave a state of emergency. It was December 7, 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u73	Since then, there have been attacks!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u74	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u75	But there were already at the time! Jean-Jacques Urvoas, former Minister of Justice, said on March 15, 2017: "We have created the conditions that make it possible to leave the state of emergency. Would these conditions no longer be met?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u76	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u77	Would the previous majority have done their job badly?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u78	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u79	I see on these benches some former ministers and even a former Prime Minister: how do they judge this situation? Perhaps we will know later in the debate. The New York Times, far from being a Bolshevik newspaper, has enormous reservations about the anti-terrorist bill that will be discussed at the beginning of the year. You have to take these alerts into account, ladies and gentlemen! [["Well? »on a few benches of the REM group]] The exceptional regimes never succeeded in France, no more today than in 1793. [[Murmures on a few benches of the REM group]] I will conclude with a final quote, which I ask you to listen carefully. "Abandoning our freedoms is a confirmation to our opponents that we must deny them. The opponents of democracy have always claimed that it was weak and that if it wanted to fight, it would have to abandon its great principles. It is exactly the opposite that is true. The criminal code as it is, the powers of the magistrates as they are, can, if the system is well ordered, well organized, allow us to destroy our opponents. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u81	"However, giving the administration unlimited powers over people's lives, without any discrimination, makes no sense, either in terms of principles or in terms of efficiency. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I leave it to you to find the author of this plea against the extension of the state of emergency, which I am carrying today on behalf of France which is insoubted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u82	President Macron said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u83	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u84	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I want to tell you, honourable Member, that we are ready to work with all those concerned with security issues. In the reflections we will be conducting together, starting next Tuesday, we will have the opportunity to discuss all the problems related to the organisation of our security forces. Your remarks, no matter where they come from, will always be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u85	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u86	I will never pretend that everything is perfect and that it is impossible to improve. We will propose a bill to you in a few weeks because we cannot extend the state of emergency indefinitely. That being said, this bill is necessary, I repeat, to continue to protect our fellow citizens from the terrorist threat, which no one here can dispute is extremely high. Dear colleague, I understood what you meant: in your opinion, there would be a number of excesses. As I indicated in my speech, searches are carried out in a limited manner. It is true that, immediately after the attacks, we searched a lot: we were in fact caught off guard. Who of us expected the attack on Charlie Hebdo and then the Bataclan? We did not think that we were at this point threatened by the Islamic State and by those who claim to be against it. So we had to search a lot to prevent this from happening again. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups, on several benches of the LR group and on some benches of the GDR group]] Then, as we progressed, the searches were more targeted, with a greater concern for the procedure. Evidence of this is that appeals to administrative tribunals have been relatively limited and compensation awarded extremely low. It is true that broken doors – unduly, in your opinion – are an important subject. But, being yourself a senior security official, you also have a thought for the 3276 police officers who have been injured since the beginning of the year in the performance of their duties. This represents an increase of 20% over the same period last year. Police officers such as you do their job and also deserve to be respected. Police officers are too often targeted, and in various ways. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I went to Magnanville to greet the memory of the couple of policemen killed a year ago by a terrorist. They were targeted because they were police officers, killed horribly in front of their three-year-old son. Well, that's barbarity; These are the worst breaches of freedom and human dignity! That too, we must denounce it, otherwise we cannot denounce anything else! [[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As I mentioned earlier, a number of extremely serious attacks have been thwarted: by obtaining information that would not have given anything to the judicial judge – or only after an infinite period of time – we have been able to either lift a doubt, thus ending an investigation, or to thwart ongoing operations. Without administrative searches, extremely serious attacks could have been carried out on our territory. For my part, I will not be the minister who will simply pay tribute to the coffins of our police officers or our fellow citizens. As far as the means of our security forces are concerned, I would remind you that much has been done for the past four years. After declining until 2012, the number of security forces increased significantly: 650 people were recruited for territorial intelligence within three years. Of course, everything is not yet perfect, both in terms of the number and the resources allocated to these forces, but we are progressing. As you know, the President of the Republic has decided to give priority to hiring 10,000 people for the security forces in all weapons, including intelligence services. It also decided to reorganize the intelligence services to better work together – the Directorate-General for Internal Security, the Directorate-General for External Security and the Armed Forces. The threat is both external and internal, endogenous. Mr President, you have urged us not to amalgamate. Let us not allow the Minister of the Interior but the former mayor of Lyon to tell you this: poverty and poverty in a number of our neighbourhoods obviously lead to delinquency and drug trafficking. Often, these early slippages lead to larger slippages. Although I am a minister of the interior, I think that the problems of a society will only be solved if we work on employment – it is not permissible for certain neighbourhoods to have 50% unemployed – and on urban planning – it is not acceptable that the big social divides be first of all spatial fractures. [[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] I am not a security force: security is global. The work of the Minister of the Interior and the police is to intervene when a number of things have failed, but the construction of a soothing society will only be done through a set of policies giving everyone their chance, according to the wishes of the President of the Republic. In this way, everyone will feel well in this country, regardless of their place of birth, regardless of their religion; Everyone will feel effectively inserted in that country. That's what we're going to try to do together! [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the REM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud at length]] Mr President, I have an obligation to ask not to adopt your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u87	As the committee did not wish to reply, we shall now turn to explanations of vote, limited to one speaker per group. The next speaker is Mrs Naïma Moutchou, for the Group of the European People's Party on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u88	The motion of rejection must be rejected for two reasons. The first is pure law and could be enough for itself – Mr Bernalicis mentioned the rule of law a little earlier. All legal conditions are in place to justify a state of emergency. For those who have forgotten it, this very serious situation implies a persistent terrorist threat of high intensity and an imminent peril. All this is clear: I am not the only one to say this, and I refer you to the detailed and highly reasoned opinion of the Council of State of 15 June this year. What should we do? Nothing? No, that will not be our choice because the safety of our citizens is a priority. As you said, there is a legal arsenal to combat terrorism, but that is not enough. Why deprive us of the essential and effective measures offered by the 1955 Act? The second reason is more practical: it is not serious to want to leave the state of emergency overnight.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u89	Don't caricature us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u90	Everyone calls for an exit from the state of emergency, but not under conditions that would render obsolete measures such as administrative searches or house arrest, which, although their application is now limited, are nevertheless used. As the Minister of the Interior has just pointed out, this exit must be controlled and this will only be possible in the context of the bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism, which we will be discussing in a few weeks' time. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] There is therefore no question of adopting this motion of rejection which, at the risk of the existing terrorist threat, would add legal insecurity and irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u91	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u92	I understand well the will of our colleagues in France to obtain their patent as the most radical opponents, but the question we are debating does not deserve such a stance. If we will never claim to be the only opponents, we are undoubtedly the most responsible opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u93	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u94	This may not be what you do, ladies and gentlemen, but think of our fellow countrymen bruised in their flesh or their families affected by these barbaric acts. Think about it, just for a second, and imagine their feelings! Today we are in a situation of war, on our soil, which requires the use of all means because, in front of us, the enemy does not recede in front of any ploy or cruelty. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] As we speak, attacks are preparing on our soil: it is not a fantasy, it is a reality. Thus, we can discuss the extent of the means, their use or the duration of the extension of the state of emergency, but we, the Republicans, will not vote on this motion of rejection under any circumstances. It is a matter of responsibility to our compatriots and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u95	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u96	The MODEM Group wonders about the real reasons why our colleagues in La France have tabled this motion. While many of their comments need to be heard, I still believe that such an approach, today, is also intended to have a thirty-minute forum.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u97	What you're saying is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u98	But we are no longer in the countryside;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u99	But we're in a state of emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] ...we are now elected representatives of the nation who are discussing a subject that cannot be more painful and serious in all respects. Of course, we will consider all of the observations you made in the context of the review of the bill that strengthens internal security and the fight against terrorism, but this motion to reject it beforehand is not appropriate. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] I have nothing more to say than what was so well expressed by our Minister of the Interior to explain the vote of the MODEM Group, of course, against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u101	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u102	As soon as President Hollande decided to decree a state of emergency, in the aftermath of the November 2015 attacks – he had indeed received all those responsible for political formations – the question arose as to how to get out of it. Beyond the figures given by the Minister of the Interior, the will was then – pardoning the triviality of my remarks – to kick in the anthill and try to know what was going on, to disrupt networks and to better identify still too little known connections between classical crime and terrorism. Prime Minister Manuel Valls can testify to our exchanges. On the first day, therefore, the question of exiting the state of emergency arose. Then – but I will have the opportunity to come back – from debate to debate, this decision has been postponed. On the first day, as far as we are concerned, we had told the President of the Republic and the then Prime Minister, at the very rostrum of this Assembly, that it was necessary to complete our legislative arsenal in order to include in the common law the means we needed to deal with a threat, an exceptional and nevertheless lasting danger. This work was partially carried out and did not allow the state of emergency to be lifted. If we vote against this motion, it is obviously, minister, because we believe you have chosen the right solution: yes, exit is necessary, but when the legislative arsenal is complete. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Having said that, Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the 30 seconds I have left to draw the attention of all – and in particular of the Chair of the Law Commission and the Minister of the Interior – to a point concerning our work. Of course, you are bound by time, because the deadline was set for 15 July, but I tell you quite frankly, Minister of State: the Minister of the Interior that you are, on such a subject, must come to the commission of laws. Madam chairman of the committee, you could have met the Law Committee yesterday afternoon and not yesterday morning, when the national tribute to Simone Veil, so that everyone could work on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u104	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Dussopt, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u105	Our group will vote against this motion of rejection because we are consistent with the positions we took during the previous parliamentary term, at the request of the governments of Manuel Valls and Bernard Cazeneuve: each time we supported the extension of the state of emergency, considering that the risk was still present and that we needed such specific provisions. That is why we support the extension proposed to us today. We also welcome the willingness to break out of the state of emergency, while noting that we will be extremely attentive to the conditions under which it will take place. We will be extremely attentive to the provisions specific to the state of emergency incorporated into the common law and, in particular, to the preservation of public freedoms, which is obviously essential in future discussions. With regard to the period which is beginning and which will take us until 1 November – and even if the chair of the Law Committee assured us yesterday that we want to continue to exercise parliamentary control over the state of emergency – we regret that no co-applicant has been appointed on the text that concerns us: this will only be the case for the coming bill. In my view, parliamentary oversight would have been more effective. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] That being said, of course, we will vote against this motion of rejection in order to be able to adopt this text at the end of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u106	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u107	Minister of State, I would like to thank you for the answer and the counter-argument you have put forward. I would like to say to our colleagues that, for our honour, we must also sometimes be able to hold back the blows. This House has no friends of the terrorists: all of us on every bench are waging a relentless war against them, and we have no other objective than total victory. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be able to discuss the state of emergency without being considered a suspect. It is the honor of democracy to discuss everything: we must be able to discuss the methods of police without being regarded as a suppôt of the enemies of the police. We are neither enemies of the police nor friends of terrorists, and I ask you to think about it often. We have argued because we do not want the enemy to take it away by inflicting on us a way of life that we do not want, no one, on any of these benches: we do not want to live under the threat of their trance, of their violence that would cause us to change and disfigure our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u109	We're not accusing anyone here of wanting to. We only warn: that is the meaning of our vote. I finish, Minister of State, because we have little time. You've had just words to describe misery, but here there are many children or grandchildren of the poor. I'm sure you'll agree with me that, in our families, no difficulty in life has ever pushed us into crime. On the contrary! The terrorist crime is a neurosis, an absolute disturbance of the mind, it has no dignity. Those who commit it are not combatants; They're sick people who attack innocent people out of state to defend themselves. Let us never establish bonds that nothing justifies! The sacred law is not to divide us in front of the enemy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] Mr. Lafarge and his company are not from the neighbourhoods; Those who have organized the money trafficking of oil and smuggling do not live in the neighborhoods! They are the ones who must be punished because they are the ones who supply and feed the enemy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u110	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u111	First of all, I thank and congratulate Ugo Bernalicis for his speech, which I believe has been very useful for our debate. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I will be brief: because the state of emergency, by definition, cannot be permanent, because its effectiveness is contested, its drifts are proven and for many other reasons I will give earlier, the Communist Members will vote on this motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u112	In the general debate, Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u113	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, for the sixth time since 13 November 2015, a bill to extend the state of emergency is before national representation. Because France remains a privileged target of the terrorist movement because of the fighting it carries out and the symbol of freedom it embodies, we have a duty to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. It is a national priority – as has been said – and it is the mission of each of us, as was the mission of the parliamentarians of the previous legislature who, through constructive and trans-partisan work, have been able to work together. The question now is simple: does the situation justify an extension of the state of emergency until November 1, 2017? The answer is just as simple: yes. Beyond everyone's opinions, there is an undeniable fact: the terrorist threat persists in our country at a high level, between planned attacks and isolated acts. Its diffuse nature and the sudden, violent and repeated circumstances of the passages to the act contribute to what is called the imminence of peril. Too many tragedies have struck France in the recent past. When we consider extending the state of emergency, of course, all our thoughts go to the victims, their families and their loved ones. Tragedies continue to be avoided, as plans for attacks are thwarted by those to whom I would like to pay tribute, from police services to the justice services, including our armed forces, our relief, customs and prison services. In the face of this threat, our determination must be unwavering and our response firm. While our legislative arsenal to combat terrorism has been strengthened in recent months, this does not preclude the renewal of the state of emergency, that is to say, the principle of the law of 3 April 1955, which, it is true, was not originally conceived with a view to combating terrorism – we are certainly far from what Edgar Faure and his government imagined. Nevertheless, modernized, this law complements the ordinary law by allowing the administrative authority, in the face of urgency and to safeguard public order, to have major prerogatives, including house arrest, searches by day and night, but also the closure of rooms, the dissolution of associations or the prohibition of the movement of persons or vehicles – all very concrete points. The state of emergency has allowed, since 2015, 4500 searches, of which 670 have led to the opening of judicial proceedings and 25 have revealed acts of a terrorist nature, the house arrest of several hundred persons considered to be dangerous to national security and the closure of some 30 hate places of worship frequented by notorious terrorists. That's what a state of emergency is. Why should we now deprive ourselves of these resources? Our responsibility is to take all the necessary measures to combat terrorism, even if we will not hide it from the French – and the minister has just reminded us – there is no zero risk. If the state of emergency can dismantle even one network, then it is justified, given the complexity of the fight against terrorism, as Bernard Cazeneuve pointed out here a few months ago – and I share his point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u115	Failure to vote on the extension of the state of emergency would be irresponsible, and the French would not understand that we do not mobilize all the energies and means at our disposal to protect them or, worse still, that we give our aggressors a signal of relaxation, disunity and weakness. I am all the more convinced that, in its opinion of 15 June 2017, the Council of State, which was called upon to take a decision on successive prorogation bills, has, without reservation, considered that the temporary maintenance of the legislative provisions specific to the state of emergency "constitutes a conciliation which is not unbalanced between the preservation of breaches of public order and respect for the rights and freedoms recognized by the Constitution", "that geographical jurisdiction is proportionate and that the extension until 1 November does not appear inappropriate in view of the grounds justifying it". There is therefore no violation of the rule of law, nor is there any violation of individual freedoms. But I also hear criticism from some of you: if the state of emergency is in strict condition today, it cannot be our only response to the terrorist threat. We need to go further than the extension of the state of emergency, which by definition is not intended to become a permanent state and to last longer than necessary. Beyond the state of emergency, we will have to think together about a comprehensive strategy for tomorrow, which will allow us to switch to a system of common law. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] That will be the focus of the discussions that will be leading us in the coming weeks, as part of the bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism. And the whole stake, as you know, will then be to maintain the balance between the protection of public order and respect for fundamental freedoms. I have no doubt that the debate will be fierce. But in the meantime, and for today, let us be at the meeting of national unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u116	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u117	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Chairman of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the first text of this Parliament – a text that is so essential, because it concerns the defence of our fundamental freedoms and is intended to defend the first of them, security. The purpose of this text is to protect our citizens. Minister of State, you are assuming the heavy and important task of protecting our citizens. I want to wish you every success in this difficult function and tell you that, as we have done in the past, when Manuel Valls and Bernard Cazeneuve held the post of Prime Minister, we will always be at the rendezvous of national unity and gathering to fight Islamist barbarism and terrorism and to better protect the French. It is this spirit of responsibility that will inspire us in this debate and naturally lead us to vote for the extension of the state of emergency that you are asking for. We will vote in the light of the particular context, which you have recalled. The terrorist threat remains maximum. France is a target, and probably one of the first targets in the world. France is a country of freedom; it is the land of Enlightenment and secularity; It is also the country of courage in the theatres of external operations, to restore peace and to fight Islamist barbarism. It is this state of affairs, that is what we are who have made us a privileged target and who have unfortunately led us on this long and tragic path that Patrick Calvar, the former boss of the DGSI, referred to before the committee of inquiry that I chaired after attacks hit our country in early January 2015. Yes, we are on this long, tragic path. You have said it, and you must have the courage and the lucidity to tell this truth: new dramas will strike us. We know this and our duty, our responsibility to all, in unity, is to try to warn them. We must do so with humility and responsibility. There is no zero risk, even if I hear extreme voices saying that, had she or he been in power, no attack would have taken place in this country. What an irresponsibility! It is a demand and a necessity: we have a duty to raise our level of protection to the maximum, in order to better guarantee the safety and freedom of our citizens. This is our responsibility, especially when this Parliament begins. We want to tell you, Minister of State, that we will always be at the rendezvous of this responsibility, in a spirit of mutual gathering and listening – because there is not, on the one hand, the right measures coming from the Government and, on the other, the wrong measures coming from the opposition. Through our proposals, we have enriched many texts in the previous legislature. I am thinking in particular of the amendments that we defended with Guillaume Larrivé to introduce prison intelligence, against the opinion of the previous seal guard and with the support of Jean-Jacques Urvoas, the last seal guard of the previous quinquennium. I am also thinking of the measures relating to the authorization to leave the country for minors or to the self-defence law which our group has carried out four times. We will make proposals, Minister of State, during this debate, but above all during the examination of the law strengthening internal security that you are announcing to us. For the time being, while repeating that we will vote for the extension of the state of emergency, I would like to make a few remarks. This is the sixth extension of the state of emergency after this tragic night of November 14, 2015, which seized our country with fear, during which French, but also foreigners who were in France, were taken away because they were attending a sporting meeting, a performance, or because they participated in a leisure time on a coffee terrace. The then President of the Republic opportunely resorted to the state of emergency, while confirming the implementation of border control, which had already been mobilized a day earlier under COP21. This mechanism was obviously relevant and useful to better protect our borders in this context of high threat. However, these two measures – border control and state of emergency – may come to an end. Because the Schengen Treaty limits the derogation from the free movement of borders to two years, border control will stop on 10 or 11 November. Its suspension would constitute an extremely serious threat and I would like to draw your attention to the need to start negotiations today to ensure that this control is maintained. You are also announcing the exit of the state of emergency. Mr Minister of State, we do not share, and we will explain this earlier when we defend some of our amendments, this will at all costs to get out of the state of emergency. The state of emergency deserves neither excessive indignity, as was the case in the motion to reject it beforehand, nor excessive honour. It is a tool, which helps to protect the French better. It does not provide an absolute answer – moreover, absolute answers do not exist. There is a chain of answers that go through the learning of civic values at the school of the Republic, the fight against communalism, the expression of demanding secularism, a better organization of our intelligence services, made more relevant, more consolidated and more effective, the means given to justice and to our police forces, our commitment, finally, in the theatres of external operations. It is this whole chain that can provide answers to better combat terrorism. Let us not deprive ourselves of the tools at our disposal, Minister of State. We are concerned about the announcement by the President of the Republic at the Congress of the end of the state of emergency. You are announcing a law that would allow certain provisions of the state of emergency to be included in the common law, but we do not share this legal approach. The provisions that are announced in the bill to strengthen internal security have nothing to do with the content of the state of emergency. They will weaken the protection of our citizens. This is true of administrative searches: they will have virtually no meaning, since they will have to be authorized by the judge of freedoms and detention. The speed of action and intervention, which made the administrative search relevant, will no longer be effective and will be devoid of any operational meaning, since it will now be a judicial search. It's very good, but it's common law: administrative search will no longer make sense. House arrest will no longer make sense either, since you will extend the scope of house arrest to an entire city, and no longer to the home.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u119	You want to delete another measure that was introduced in the context of the state of emergency by the adoption of one of my amendments: identity checks and vehicle searches carried out by the prefect's decision, and no longer on request, under article 78-2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, by the public prosecutors. In doing so, you weaken our device and deprive yourself of effective tools. The real reform, Minister of State, which we call for, is constitutional reform. The previous government had had the intuition but, for political reasons, it did not take place. It is necessary, however, because we cannot remain in a frozen rule of law. We must adapt it to the maximum threat. We need to change things, especially about the 15,000 people we know and who, to varying degrees, represent a threat. I want to talk about the famous S records, on which, today, we have no means of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u120	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u121	It is necessary, and we have proposed on several occasions, to introduce a real system of control and administrative detention for the most worrying reports. For others, it is necessary to have control under electronic placement, without worrying about the consent of the person, as you propose. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on certain benches of the LC group]] It is this debate that we must have, calmly and lucidly. Although it is clear that we approve of the extension of the state of emergency today, we are convinced that what you are proposing is not up to the threat. We therefore call on you to reflect and to make a substantial and profound change, within the framework of a comprehensive reform that can lead to institutional changes, to our counter-terrorism mechanisms, in order to better protect our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u122	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u123	Mr President, the Minister of State, the Chair of the Law Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us by the Government tends to extend the state of emergency for the sixth time, until 1 November 2017. Forgive me if I repeat things that have been said, but it is also the virtue of pedagogy. On behalf of my group, I would also like to stress the reasons for our vote. In order to take a decision on this text, I believe we need to answer three questions. First, is the terrorist threat persistent? The answer is yes. It is the case in France, where attacks, although less deadly than those in Bataclan or Nice, have continued to be carried out since the last extension law was passed, mainly targeting the security forces, the military and the police. We have all insisted on this and I want to join in the tributes that have been paid. A policeman was murdered on the Champs Elysées on 20 April and a terrorist struck a gendarmerie van with his vehicle on 19 June. The terrorist threat in Europe has not diminished, either, since in turn Germany, the United Kingdom, Russia and Sweden were hit by deadly attacks in the first half of 2017. The imminent defeat of the Islamic State in the Middle East, Syria and Iraq, to which France has made a significant and recognized contribution since September 2014, must not lead us to lower our guard. As you said, Minister of State, Daesh after his disappearance as a state or other successor organizations will continue their criminal activities by mobilizing their networks: the terrorist threat does not weaken. Second question: Is counter-terrorism legislation, incorporated in successive laws extending the state of emergency, still necessary? Admittedly, the number of administrative searches conducted under the authority of the prefect out of court has decreased significantly over time, since the declaration of the state of emergency on 14 November 2015. But, Minister of State, you have given us the reasons, quite understandable from the perspective of the context: to a massive use, intended to destabilize the radical Islamist movement, have succeeded more targeted operations, in liaison with the intelligence services, which have enabled, in particular, the urgent seizure of computer data at the home of persons belonging to this movement. I say this to the attention of our colleague from France, who has been unsubstantiated: everyone will understand that I am particularly attached to judicial proceedings and to the intervention of the judicial judge, the sole guarantor of our individual freedoms;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u125	...but against these persons, no judicial proceedings could have been usefully initiated. The large number of foiled attacks, even before any start of execution, is the result of this precise and relevant work, carried out tirelessly by our security forces. We must not disarm them. The third question is: should the state of emergency be indefinitely extended until the terrorist threat has ceased? By its exceptional nature, the state of emergency cannot be trivialized by the systematic extension of the law that established it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u126	It's dusty!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u127	Forgive me, my dear colleague. For my part, I always listen to you with respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u128	You have the floor alone, Mrs. Vichnievsky; I invite you to continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u129	Don't let it bother you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u130	It takes more to trouble me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u131	Ah, what a confession!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u132	At the same time – can I still use this expression? – some of the rules of our legal tradition in terms of procedure or public freedoms must now be adapted to effectively combat terrorist acts. Faced with these conflicting demands – this is the difficulty of the work that each of us must carry out – the Government has chosen a timetable that guarantees both the security of the French and the planned cessation of exceptional legislation. The first is to extend the state of emergency for a last time and for a limited period, from 16 July to 1 November at the latest, and the second is to perpetuate in the ordinary law, by a law to be adopted before the end of this sequence, a number of the counter-terrorism mechanisms that have proved to be effective. I note that the original bill received a favourable opinion from the Council of State on 15 June. He noted that there was no imbalance between the prevention of breaches of public order and respect for the rights and freedoms recognized by the Constitution. In addition, balance and proportion are two concepts that must guide us all when considering such a text. However, the Council of State noted that it was balanced and proportionate in terms of both the geographical scope of application of the state of emergency and the duration of its extension. Finally, a word on the amendment proposed by the Government and voted by the Senate to reintroduce the ban on residence in article 5 of the Act of 3 April 1955, which was declared unconstitutional on 9 June 2017. As proposed by Mr. Michel Mercier, Rapporteur of the Senate Law Committee, the Government has placed new conditions on the power of the prefects to issue this ban on residence. I am not going to take up the additional guarantees provided by this amendment because you mentioned them, Mr rapporteur. However, I stress the limitation of time and the consideration of the family and professional life of the person concerned. These conditions, which meet the criticisms made by the Constitutional Council, should allow the amended text to escape further censorship. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] Thus, this text, voted by the Senate and adopted yesterday by the Law Committee of our Assembly, guarantees a fair balance between strengthening internal security and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms recognized by the Constitution. It gives us the time to adapt common law more effectively to the terrorist threat, which we will do with the bill that strengthens internal security and the fight against terrorism. The Democratic and Related Movement Group will therefore vote on the bill extending the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u134	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the examination of this bill, the question we have to ask ourselves is simple: is the state of emergency, an exceptional and temporary measure in essence, still so indispensable to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens, that we need to extend it for the sixth time? That was the meaning of your intervention, Mr. Minister of State. If the question is simple, the answer is, in fact, much more complicated than it seems, despite the explanations you have kindly given us. For, basically, whatever our political sensitivities, we should all be shared as to the state of emergency and its extension. In the first place, its effectiveness is nevertheless questionable; It has in any case become quite marginal. On 14 November 2015, the day after the attack in Bataclan, when the President of the Republic decided to establish a state of emergency, the question obviously did not arise: this measure was absolutely necessary. It was particularly effective in the first few months: thanks to the numerous administrative searches and house arrest, most of the terrorist networks then existing were shaken. They have often been discovered, weapons of a very different nature have been found and attacks have probably been avoided. This is what I referred to earlier with the phrase "kick in the anthill." However, 20 months after its implementation, the question of maintaining a state of emergency arises because its effectiveness has more than diminished over time. Once the surprise effect has passed, terrorist networks adapt. Your numerical summary of the state of emergency shows this: in the first six months, there were almost 4000 administrative searches, 400 house arrest and 500 residence bans; Over the past six months, there have been 150 searches, 70 house arrest and 50 residence bans, up to ten times less than at the beginning. Yet, in parallel, the terrorist threat has not diminished. On the contrary, it has greatly intensified, all governments – you yourself have done so today, Minister of State – have rightly reminded the French. This is reflected in the events of 18 March at Orly Airport, 20 April on Champs Elysées Avenue, 16 June on the parvis of Notre Dame Cathedral, and 19 June again on the Champs Elysées, not to mention the recent attacks on our British neighbours in London and Manchester. Yes, the threat is more intense, but the effectiveness of the state of emergency is decreasing. The operational record of the state of emergency is now widely contrasted, which should lead us to question its effectiveness, which has become relative. On the other hand, we are concerned about the duration and legal regime of the state of emergency. This has been recalled several times and we are all fully aware of it: the state of emergency cannot be a permanent state. A year ago, a few hours before the attack on 14 July in Nice, the then President of the Republic himself announced his opposition to a further extension. For it is a regime that allows the State to react to a threat: it is intended for short-term actions and is not suitable for the fight against terrorism in the long term. Article 1 of the Act of 3 April 1955 makes it clear that a state of emergency may be declared in the face of an "imminent danger resulting from serious breaches of public order". Clearly, however, this danger is no longer only imminent; it is now permanent. And we know that, in order to combat a permanent threat, there is a need for permanent tools and not exceptional tools that are derogatory to the common law, such as those we have been suffering for the last twenty months. For our part, when François Hollande had received us in the aftermath of the attacks of November 2015, we had told him that, if the state of emergency was necessary in the moment, it had to remain very temporary: it had to be applied time to adapt our common law to a new threat that, to be exceptional in its gravity, could only be lasting. That is why, since the spring of 2016, I have expressed an unfavourable opinion on requests for an extension of the state of emergency. Indeed, your predecessors had had ample time to adjust our common legal arsenal to the threat, but they had not done so seriously, courageously and completely. You have introduced, Minister of State, a bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism, which will be discussed next year in this House. It aims to provide the public authorities with new legal means of prevention and control. The state of emergency regime would then again be reserved only for exceptional circumstances, since our common law regime allows us to fight effectively in normal times. Minister of State, it is because you are finally committing – this last word is not addressed to you, who have just been appointed – the work we had requested in November 2015 that we will vote in favour of this bill extending the state of emergency, knowing that this extension will be very limited in time and naturally hoping that the timetable set by the Government for the parliamentary debate will finally allow the necessary legislative adjustment. I therefore welcome the will of the executive, and we will take our full part in the debates to enrich this future text, which, in the light of its outline and outline, seems to us to be able and must be enriched. One point of your speech and that of our colleague Mrs Vichnievsky should be our attention. During the period during which the state of emergency was applied, you said, we have had the means to detect attacks that we would not have been able to detect by judicial means. Of course, it is this one that must be given priority. But if we follow this reasoning, we must accept that the exceptional means of today are integrated into the judicial means. I'm saying it so the French don't blame us tomorrow. You told us that we could have detected these attacks but that the simple judicial route would not have prevented them. The French will not be able to hear such reasoning in the aftermath of an attack.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u137	One cannot explain that one could have known, but that one did not afford the means to initiate judicial proceedings on the basis of the information available. These are the debates we will have in the autumn. We have to do this. And, like Mr Mélenchon, I hope that you will involve everyone in this struggle, in particular the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU and independent, because it concerns us all, without partisan spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u139	In the fight against terrorism, as I said, we must give priority to the judicial process. The common law has already evolved. Thus, the law of 3 June 2016 provided additional tools to investigators, but these are not sufficient. There is therefore a need for far-reaching reform, which will prevent not only existing but also future threats. For terrorism is constantly changing, and technological advances make this evolution exponential. The threat grew every day with the return of combatants and jihadists, French but not only, who were in the Levant. In a few years, we will certainly face threats that we could not even have imagined a few years ago. This bill will therefore have to take these issues into account and be ambitious. We must also, of course, ensure that the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens are respected. Faced with the difficulty of the fight against terrorism, Minister of State, the state should not have time to waste with activists and demonstrators, even in the event of a risk of a breach of public order, because this is not part of the state of emergency that we have extended several times.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u141	Measures are planned to combat risks other than terrorism. In the months in which the state of emergency will continue to apply, we ask you, Minister of State, to make a personal effort to distinguish between terrorism and anything else and not a state of emergency. I also welcome the adoption by the Senate of an article 2, which sets out the conditions under which residence bans may be imposed. This follows the censorship by the Constitutional Council, which had considered that the balance between the objective of safeguarding public order and the right to a normal family life was not achieved. We therefore also agree with this article. This is proof that, even after five extensions and several weeks of parliamentary debate, it is always possible to improve and better regulate the state of emergency regime, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, despite its extension until 1 November, we all hope that we will never again see it declared by a President of the Republic. Yet, although we all hope that our common law will suffice to combat terrorism effectively, we are not immune from the imminent and exceptional dangers that would justify a new state of emergency by a President of the Republic. That is why we must continue to improve the 1955 Act. I have tabled, Mr Minister of State – I will talk about it later – an amendment to this effect, concerning the monitoring of the state of emergency by Parliament. I believe that the current control, which has been effective, remains inadequate. Since there may be exceptional circumstances in which a state of emergency restricts a number of freedoms or increases the intrusive means of the State, this parliamentary control must be permanent and not dependent on the only good will of the time, the government and the chairmen of the Senate and National Assembly Law Commissions: it must be made compulsory by law and provided by a specific commission. In conclusion, it seems pointless to me to recall how imperfect the state of emergency is and how much its effectiveness is today being discussed by those who had implemented it and refused to lift it. But I think it is important to stress that in the fight against terrorism there is no absolute answer, no miracle solution, no zero risk. This idea must be taken out of the debate in French politics because it is demagogic. I doubt that there is an absolute solution, but we must seek every means to protect our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on some benches of the FI group]] It is good because you will introduce a bill in the fall and you will, I imagine, be very interested in discussing it with all of us to better protect us from terrorists, that we agree to extend one last time, Minister of State – one last time – the state of emergency decreed in 2015.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u142	Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u143	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, as I have had the opportunity to say in the Committee on Laws, the Socialist and related Members of Parliament support the extension of the state of emergency until November 1, 2017, as they have supported the five previous extensions of the implementation of the provisions of the 1955 Act. The last extension, dated 19 December 2016, was justified by the need to be able to continue to make use, in addition to the common legal framework, of exceptional measures, in particular in an electoral context. This has made it possible to avoid attacks. And we associate ourselves with the justified tribute that you legitimately paid to the security forces, Minister of State, and with the words of solidarity that you have had for the victims of the attacks and attacks that took place. We also share the reasons that lead you today to request this extension. First, the terrorist threat in France and Europe does not weaken, despite the retreat of the jihadist groups. On the other hand, we know that even less frequent use of emergency tools should not lead to a relativization of their usefulness, since several plans for attacks or violent actions have been detected and thwarted by this implementation, and there are currently no equivalent measures in our common law. However, I would like to remind you, at the beginning of this legislative term, that the capacity of the public authorities to combat terrorism has been considerably improved, with no less than six laws containing various provisions strengthening the common law, all adopted at the initiative of Manuel Valls or Bernard Cazeneuve for the most recent: the law of 21 December 2012 on security and the fight against terrorism; that of 13 November 2014 strengthening the provisions relating to the fight against terrorism; that of 24 July 2015 on intelligence; that of 22 March 2016 on the prevention and fight against incivilities, attacks on public security and terrorist acts in public passenger transport; that of 3 June 2016 strengthening the fight against organised crime, terrorism and their financing, and improving the effectiveness and guarantees of criminal procedure; Finally, that of 28 February 2017 on public security, which adapted the legal frameworks for the use of weapons by the police and the gendarmerie and thus created a comprehensive legal framework for the intervention of armed private security agents. These successive laws have made it possible to increase the capacity of the public authorities in an unprecedented way, both to identify the threat and to prevent or punish offences. They must be combined with the increase in the number of police and gendarmerie since 2012, which we commit you, both of you, to pursue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u145	However, these means are insufficiently adapted and do not allow an immediate exit from the state of emergency, because the effectiveness of administrative action could be hampered overnight by the loss of a specific legal framework. This is also what leads us to hope that the state of emergency will be lifted next November, and that will lead us to accompany and support, with the vigilance I mentioned earlier, the incorporation of part of the provisions of the 1955 law into ordinary law. In response to certain concerns, I would also like to point out that we have secured the implementation of the 1955 Act. The successive amendments to this text, almost every time they were extended, have helped to strengthen the framework of the regime, making it more predictable and providing it with important, often innovative, guarantees to reconcile the effectiveness of the measure and the guarantee of rights: supervision of the regimes of house arrest; creation of a procedure for the application of a stay of proceedings before the administrative court in order to enable the use of computer data; Incorporation of a presumption of urgency allowing under house arrest to refer the case to the judge for interim relief on several occasions; limit the duration of assignments to a maximum of 12 months; taking into account the constraints of family and professional life; duty to give priority to day searches, unless operationally necessary; Last but not least, the establishment of strict parliamentary scrutiny of the measures taken on the basis of the state of emergency. Indeed, since 2016, article 4(1) of the amended 1955 Act provides for strict parliamentary scrutiny of all measures taken: "The National Assembly and the Senate shall be informed without delay of the measures taken by the Government during the state of emergency. The administrative authorities shall transmit to them without delay copies of all acts they take pursuant to this Law. The National Assembly and the Senate may request further information as part of the monitoring and evaluation of these measures. » On the basis of this provision, the Law Committee of the National Assembly had put in place a monitoring mechanism invested with the necessary resources, we had appointed a rapporteur for the implementation of the law of extension, from the opposition, and it was the implementing rapporteur and the law rapporteur who had been entrusted with the task of animating this permanent monitoring mission. On the basis of Article 5 ter of the 1958 Ordinance, the Law Committee had also decided to mobilise the powers of inquiry which may be vested in the Standing Committees in order to guarantee this parliamentary oversight. This information has been regularly published with a view to transparency. The archives of the commission bear witness, if necessary, to the density of the control carried out; The last publication was published on June 15. Madam President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, you have told us that you want to continue to do so, and that is, of course, a good thing for us. This oversight, which has strengthened parliamentary knowledge, will be of use to us in our discussion of the upcoming bill that strengthens internal security and the fight against terrorism. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on some benches of the REM and FI groups]] In conclusion, Mr President, our group will vote on this prorogation bill, sharing the objective of an exit from the state of emergency, as proposed by Jean-Jacques Urvoas on 16 March, who then kept the seals. We will also pay attention to the provisions of the bill that you will shortly be bringing before us; It must make it possible to incorporate certain provisions specific to the state of emergency into the common law, but it will be essential to ensure respect for public freedoms and our constitutional principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u146	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mr President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by recalling what my colleagues Ugo Bernalicis and Jean-Luc Mélenchon have already said: we are here, all of us, representatives of the people and, all of us, in solidarity with the victims and determined to ensure that there are no more attacks, no more deaths, no more terrorist attacks against our people and our country. I hope that, in the wake of the discussions, we will not be subjected to any trial of intent in instrumentalisation. It is precisely because we have a sense of responsibility that we have put forward a motion of rejection in advance, because we believe that this matter is important enough to debate it and explain our arguments. Yes, we have arguments against extending the state of emergency! They are of three kinds and I will state them, not only because we defend them, but because they are supported by the work of community activists, researchers and activists on the ground, including in the field of security and intelligence. They are not, either, people who are irresponsible and would not be aware of the danger in France, Europe and the rest of the world, where terrorist attacks, acts of violence and military acts against peoples also take place. They are people who, like Amnesty International activists, go to war grounds and know what authoritarian states are and how democracy is going down. Therefore, when they say that a problem arises in terms of democracy, they do not do so slightly, but by knowing these realities, especially in areas where it is obvious to everyone that situations are extremely harsh. First of all, the usefulness of the state of emergency, which has been extended for more than a year in our country, is not proven. It is the subject of debate and is contested, it must be heard. My colleague Lagarde explained to this rostrum, like others before him, that the very principle of a state of emergency is to apply itself for a short period of time to give the security services the maximum means to directly attack those responsible for these acts and, within a few days and weeks after the terrorist attacks, to intervene, neutralise and punish them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u149	The very principle of a state of emergency and its usefulness are completely disused from the moment it is extended for several months and even for more than a year. The statistics provided by the Ministry of the Interior give the same information: the longer the time passes, the fewer the interventions carried out thanks to the means of the state of emergency. Thus, in his address to Emmanuel Macron, the collective of eleven non-governmental organizations, including Amnesty International and the Judicial Union, noted: "The state of emergency in no way favours the protection of our citizens and, on the contrary, prevents a long-term response to the threat of international terrorism. They are neither leftists nor irresponsible but people who have the dangers and responsibilities in mind. This statement also echoes the assessment made by the Law Committee in December 2016 in the framework of parliamentary oversight and by independent authorities such as the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights or the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights. By bypassing counter-terrorism justice, by exhausting the security forces, the state of emergency continued for several months proved not only ineffective but also counterproductive. I will not go back to the figures that have been given: the approximately 4,500 administrative searches carried out have resulted in only about 20 investigations for the association of terrorist criminals. The conclusions of the parliamentary report I have quoted also show that a small proportion of the searches have been followed up. Moreover, the eight anti-terrorist laws of the last three years have been part of a corpus of more than thirty laws, since the first text of September 1986, which has put in place special procedures to combat terrorism. We therefore do not live in a legal or security vacuum, on the contrary. The end of the state of emergency does not mean that our security services will not be able to carry out their missions successfully. These laws would, moreover, require, at the pace with which they are adopted, to be the subject of a flattening, a broader reflection on the need to adapt them, in the light of what is working and what is not working, rather than rushing again, as is proposed today, not only to extend the state of emergency, but also to incorporate even more derogatory situations and violations of freedoms into the common law. On the other hand, it cannot be said that the state of emergency does not call into question public and democratic freedoms in our country. Moreover, France itself recognizes this when it reactivates Article 15 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which allows it to derogate from fundamental human rights. It cannot therefore be said that the state of emergency is not an infringement of public and democratic freedoms. While there is no record of the effectiveness of the state of emergency, another has shown that it reduces freedoms. For the past year and a half, the prefects have used the powers of the state of emergency to sign 155 decrees prohibiting rallies, one every three days, and to restrict the freedom of 639 people, 574 of whom are members of the anti-work movement. In 2016, 40% of the measures taken in the context of the state of emergency were challenged in court and declared illegal. The State therefore largely challenges a number of freedoms. Finally, the most important problem, if we really want to build the unity of society against divisions and violence, refers to the atmosphere of widespread suspicion and to the stigmatization of associations and environmental activists, who have been questioned and placed under house arrest, but also of some of our fellow Muslims. The instrumentalization of tragic events and the systematic confusion between a religion and violent acts maintain a deleterious climate for society as a whole. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There is a weakening of the social link and democratic freedoms, where there should be more rights and more freedoms. More than ever before, we should ensure that the right to safety – one of the fundamental rights of the 1789 Declaration of Human Rights – is respected, which guarantees every citizen protection against state arbitrariness, including security. In the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, security refers first and foremost to the right to social security and to the fulfilment of economic, social and cultural rights. In the current context of economic and social fragility, violence and terrorist attacks, these rights must be strengthened: it is no longer and no less rights that should be enjoyed. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Same movements]] As Ugo Bernalicis pointed out, we must take the problem to the root. We cannot make the French people believe that it is the state of emergency that will make it possible to fight terrorist attacks on a lasting basis. An international policy to address sources of funding is needed. What are we doing today against the Lafarge company? What is the state doing against those who confess to helping terrorist organizations? What is being done with regard to geopolitical alliances with States that finance terrorist activities or themselves commit mass terrorism against their own people? If we do not have this debate, including in this House, we will have recourse, over and over again, to a state of emergency, at the cost of a reduction in freedoms, because we will not be able to combat the problem decisively and permanently. [[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and the GDR Group]] That is why, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I call on the Commission to reject the extension of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u150	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u151	Mr President, the Minister of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, since the terrible attacks of 13 November 2015 in Paris and on the outskirts of the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, the city where I am elected, our country lives under the regime of a state of emergency. If we had approved, at the time, in an unprecedented context, the establishment and extension of the state of emergency, in order to take with great speed rigorous measures to prevent any terrorist act and to arrest the perpetrators of the attacks, the state of emergency, by definition, cannot be permanent. After five extensions and almost twenty months of application, this derogatory legislative regime has been in place for a long time. The risk of habituation and the trivialisation of the exception have since been widely denounced. As early as February 2016, the Council of State warned that the renewals of the state of emergency "cannot...be replaced indefinitely". The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, independent UN experts, the human rights defender, the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights – the CNCDH – as well as lawyers, magistrates, police officers, law professors and non-governmental organisations have expressed their deep concern about the sustainable establishment of the state of emergency in our country. In this House, the Communist Members, along with others, have repeatedly warned in vain about the risks inherent in this derogation. As Christine Lazerges, President of the CNCDH, rightly pointed out: "The state of emergency has become a convenience. The administration has become accustomed to exorbitant powers and has used them far beyond the threat of terrorism. However, the only way out of the state of emergency is to include in the common law the major provisions of this emergency regime. It is precisely the purpose of the bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism, which must take over the regime of the state of emergency by normalizing its main provisions. The Communist deputies, fully aware of the threat and responsible, continue to refuse the extension of the state of emergency and solemnly oppose the integration of state of emergency measures into the common law. We believe that, in troubled times such as this, respect for the separation of powers and individual freedoms, as well as their control, must have no flaws. We must have confidence in our rule of law. We have a vastly sufficient counter-terrorism arsenal, now and again redesigned and completed to adapt to the new forms of terrorism, even though the disruption of the intelligence services, their weakening on the ground and the still uncompensated suppression of police personnel have had a detrimental effect. We must therefore have the political courage to leave the state of emergency. The permanent state of emergency is ineffective in combating terrorism, as has been emphasized by various studies and evaluation reports. The President of the Republic himself, Emmanuel Macron, recalled on 13 June: "The objective for France today is to get out of the state of emergency, which does not allow for a sufficiently effective fight against terrorism. » While the state of emergency proved to be useless in the fight against terrorism, the abuses it caused were, on the other hand, very real. By the end of 2015, the human rights defender had alerted him to several abuses. The measures of the state of emergency have sometimes been used for purposes far removed from the grounds for declaring it. In its opinion on the monitoring of the state of emergency, the CNCDH notes, according to the data of the Minister of the Interior, that, of the 3289 administrative searches recorded as at 3 February 2016, only 28 offences related to terrorism were found. The risk of a liberticide drift, both anti-democratic and anti-social, was particularly highlighted during protests against the Valls-El Khomri law. It was in the name of the state of emergency that dozens of activists involved in the marches against labour law reform were notified of a ban on demonstrations. As pointed out in the report of the Senate's Law Committee of 28 June 2016, most of the measures taken by the administrative authorities to prohibit residence since the start of the state of emergency were taken during demonstrations against the labour law in spring 2016, with 438 measures enacted. This ban on residence, censored by the Constitutional Council because it was considered too imprecise in its wording and not sufficiently framed, has unfortunately been restored by the Senate. We consider that the safeguards introduced are insufficient to prevent the use of this mechanism against demonstrators, and do not allow the objective of safeguarding public order to be reconciled with the freedom to come and go. I would also like to alert you, Minister of State, to another aspect: we must worry about the risk of discrimination against citizens of Muslim faiths or perceived as such. In its report, Amnesty International states that "the current emergency measures are implemented in a discriminatory manner, specifically targeting Muslim people, often on the basis of their religious beliefs or practices rather than on the basis of tangible evidence of criminal behaviour". Similarly, the human rights defender expressed his concerns on 23 June: "As some cases have shown, [the state of emergency could] lead to some sort of "targeting" of a part of the population. It all happens as if there were people in France who would not be "like" and who would in essence present more risks. » We refuse to choose between freedom and security; We refuse to give in to terror and let the demand for security take precedence over that of freedom. Finally, before concluding, I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the fate of the victims and their families before you. For them, the state is not in emergency mode; He's even too uncompassionate, I'll say. For the past twenty months, they have been confronted with the slowness and cumbersomeness of the administration. In this situation, the victims' association of 13 November alerted me to worry about the disappearance of the State Secretariat for Victim Assistance in this government. Victims no longer have an interlocutor at the highest level of the State, while many requests have not yet been answered and the promised accompaniment is not available; they are alone in the face of the meanderings of the administration. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR Group and the FI Group]] To conclude, Member of Parliament for Saint-Denis, I cannot intervene in this rostrum without thinking for a moment about Manuel Dias, a car driver killed by a suicide bomber at the foot of the Stade de France, the young Dyonisians wounded in their souls and in their flesh at their workplace, these women, these men and these children traumatized for life after having experienced the assault, for five hours, of their building on 48 rue de la République, because, three hours earlier, the terrorists of 13 November had hidden themselves there. I will conclude my speech with this magnificent testimony of Michaël Dias, on the occasion of the ceremony in tribute to his father, a few months ago, in Saint-Denis, in the presence of the President of the Republic: "To continue to live in freedom we must also fight this terrorism [...] by knowledge, by intelligence. [...] We must strive to combat stigma and division. [...] It is by offering the same opportunities to all that we will succeed in preventing the resentment of some from turning into brutality for all. And he concluded: "Long live tolerance, live intelligence and live France! When this orphan of a father who had fled the dictatorship of Salazar in Portugal says "live France! He says "live France of knowledge, live France of fraternity, live France of freedom! With this conviction, which we support, the Communist deputies will vote against the extension of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u152	Mr Jean-Michel Fauvergue has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and the MODEM group]] Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and a pleasure to address you. Unless I am mistaken, this is the first time that a former national police officer has been called upon to sit and speak before this docte assembly. I measure the solemnity of the moment to its fair value.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u155	[[Smile]] I haven't said anything yet! I would like to devote some of my time to thanking and paying tribute to our law enforcement and relief services. We all share the feeling of gratitude and pride towards these women and men, dressed in blue for national or municipal police officers and gendarmes, white for hospital health services or red for firefighters – yes, you heard me: blue, white, red, like our national flag. These women and men spend their time protecting us and saving our lives at the risk of their own. I am not just talking about the highly specialized operators of the RAID – research, assistance, intervention, deterrence – the GIGN – the intervention group of the national gendarmerie – and the BIS – the research and intervention brigade – which I had so much pleasure in ordering for one another and crossing on dangerous operations for the other. I am also talking about all these women and men who, while remaining our guardian angels, have also become the targets of these barbarians without honour and faith. Nor do I forget, in this tribute, our soldiers acting on our territory as part of Operation Sentinel or in the theatres of external operations. Ladies and gentlemen, the extension of this state of emergency is necessary until a new law is put into effect which will enable us to further strengthen our means of combating terrorist gangrene. I can testify before you, for having belonged to the field services of the Ministry of the Interior, more specifically to its operational services, that the state of emergency has allowed us to conduct operations with more flexibility and speed than the common procedural rules allowed. It has enabled us to better protect our citizens, even if new tragedies have taken place, because it is difficult and it will always be difficult to protect ourselves against all dangers. Beyond the statistics and figures that have already been given, I would like to testify to the commitment of the counter-terrorism services as a whole. In recent years, they have arrested hundreds of jihadists, putting an end to dozens of plans for major attacks, whether they are intelligence services, investigation and investigation services, or intervention services. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Some of these planned deadly operations have been addressed in the emergency, thanks to the administrative arrangements of the same name: the state of emergency. I concede, it was not, far from that, the majority of cases. But we must retain the possibility of intervening by any means, including administrative means: if this would defeat even one attack, to avoid even one death, it is a moral duty and a political duty. It is a political duty, at least until other legal mechanisms are in place, which will, in the near future, make it possible not to resort permanently and systematically to emergency measures – which must, by definition, remain exceptional. In the short term, as soon as we are ready, but not before, we will have to put an end to this state of emergency, a very important consequence of which will have been the physical and moral fatigue of the law enforcement and relief services by using them in a preventive way, sometimes more than just reason. From this point of view, as a first step, the end of the state of emergency could be an opportunity – in any case, I call it my wish – to return to the rational use of the staff of the security and relief forces. Members of these services are also, and above all, men and women in need of rest and family life. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LC group]] It would also be an opportunity, in a second phase, to tackle some of the blocking problems, first and foremost the complexity of the criminal procedure, which is causing a disturbing disaffection for the positions of judicial police officers in the police and gendarmerie. We must quickly worry about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u156	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u157	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Laws, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, five times already during the previous parliamentary term, we have extended the application of the state of emergency. We chose it by being guided by a single requirement: the spirit of responsibility that must particularly prevail when national security is at stake. What matters, in the face of the peril of Islamist terrorism, is the effectiveness of the state, to safeguard the nation and save lives. We did not wait for Emmanuel Macron's election to gather on the essentials; We did it when Manuel Valls and Bernard Cazeneuve were prime ministers. Members of the Republican Group were able to agree with the then Socialist Members to vote on a number of texts of general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u159	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u160	Mr Minister of State, the question that you are asking us this morning is clear: should you and the Prefects be allowed to have for a few months the strengthened powers provided for by the legal regime of the state of emergency? I believe that, first of all, for reasons of principle. The state of emergency, in fact, is not a provisional abdication of the rule of law but a legal regime that temporarily extends the police powers of the administrative authority, according to a preventive logic, under the full control of the administrative judge – I say this to Mrs Vichnievsky – and, where appropriate, under the consideration of the Constitutional Council, through the priority issue of constitutionality. But here's the real question for us this morning: is this regime still adapted to the needs of the fight against terrorism? It seems to me that it is at most a useful complement to the provisions of ordinary law. On this point, I fully agree with what Jean-Jacques Urvoas said this morning: it is a useful, but transitional, temporary complement, and whose scope should not be overestimated. I believe, however, that it would not be reasonable to deprive the Ministry of the Interior of this task today, because if a single administrative search could prevent an attack, then we would be irresponsible to ban them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u161	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u162	I will therefore vote in favour of this prorogation bill. However, Mr. Minister of State, it seems to me even more essential that the Government should now endeavour to put an end to a number of operational deficiencies that seriously undermine internal security. The first deficiency is the structural weakness of judicial and prison capacity. In this regard, I regret that the Prime Minister has indicated that he will wait until 2018 to present us with a programming law on these matters. If we really want to improve the efficiency of the criminal chain, we must not delay the launch of this major project, a practice that is even more than legal, which is essential to strengthen the judicial authority. The other operational deficiency relates very directly to the services over which, Mr. Minister of State, you exercise your authority. In this regard, I would like to address three very concrete points, which require specific answers from you. First, the Prime Minister announced that he would want to save €5 billion in 2017. Most importantly, he said no ministry would be sanctified. The Ministry of the Interior accounts for about 8% of the state budget appropriations, which means that about 400 million euros of the Ministry's appropriations would be cancelled – probably 200 million euros for the police and 200 million euros for the gendarmerie, to which the Ministry's main programmes are devoted. This would be tantamount to abolishing the appropriations allocated to all the current plans for equipment, armaments and the protection of police and gendarmes; real estate projects would be frozen, as would all cybersecurity technology projects; DGSI – the Directorate-General for Internal Security – would also see its amputated appropriations and investment projects stopped.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u163	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u164	Can you tell us, Minister of State, the state of interdepartmental arbitrations on this subject, in order to clarify the budgetary means that will enable police officers and gendarmes to carry out their duties? Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of adopting a law on a state of emergency, if in reality it cannot be applied by police officers and gendarmes deprived of their operational means, weapons, ammunition, cars, means of investigation, bulletproof vests? Secondly, I would like to ask you what actions you intend to take with regard to working time. The current reform of the time cycles could absorb, under certain scenarios, nearly 10,000 personnel, almost all of the job creation envisaged during the five-year period in the security forces. My third and final technical question concerns overtime, a structural problem in the national police, as you know, with a stock valued at over 260 million euros and growing since the attacks in 2015. They have remained unpaid so far. I believe that it is necessary to initiate a plan to make use of these overtime in order to pay them and to increase, at little cost, the operational potential of the security forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u165	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u166	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, Mr President, the state of emergency cannot be a virtual exercise of communication: it must be translated into action. I know you're convinced of this, Mr. Minister of State. This must be done in a transparent manner, under the watchful supervision of the National Assembly. It is in this spirit that the Republicans, in particular Eric Ciotti, will continue to work in this House to serve the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u167	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u168	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister of State, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, Mr.Rapporteur, section 1 of this bill aims to extend the state of emergency once again, until November 1, 2017. For less than two years, our assembly has had to know of this derogatory and framed regime, which allows us to make an exception to the normal regime of freedoms. In this context, civil authorities may take emergency measures in the national territory to ensure security: house arrest, searches, prohibitions of assembly. Obviously, these derogations and exceptions are justified by serious and recurrent threats, some of which have unfortunately taken place in our national territory. On behalf of the New Left Group and on my own behalf, I have a thought for the victims of the attacks, here and elsewhere, who are genuine acts of war committed against democracy and its citizens. I will make a few reminders to put the stakes of the new law at stake. This is the sixth extension of the state of emergency, the last being justified by the need to ensure a high level of security during the democratic exercise of elections. This is the longest state of emergency in our history. The state of emergency regime evolved during the previous legislature, including an unprecedented strengthening of parliamentary control over the exercise of executive powers during this period. The two previous presidents of the Law Committee had been attentive and willing to mobilise investigative powers worthy of genuine parliamentary scrutiny. At the beginning of this new legislature, our assembly must remain at the forefront. The existence of effective parliamentary control is, by its very nature, a guarantee of balance, since it induces a rational use of police powers by the executive. Each extension of the state of emergency has been placed in a logic of exiting the device. It aims to combat, in a proportionate manner, the imminent danger of an attack on the national territory. The longer the time passes and the more latent, diffuse, permanent the more the state of emergency is an inadequate response. Finally, I would like to point out that every law extending the state of emergency has been accompanied by new provisions to extend the scope of measures which may be ordered by the Ministry of the Interior. The conditions of appeal are sometimes less objective than before. The state of emergency may therefore, according to a certain reading, be unfavourable to freedoms. As Professor Paul Cassia recalled: "The declaration of the state of emergency by the executive creates [...] an exceptional legality where, in case of litigation, the objective of preservation against the "imminent danger" makes secondary the preservation of individual freedoms. » While we can only support the objective of principle, we believe that the conditions for implementation call for vigilance, control and feedback, in order to prevent any excesses, any permanent shift towards a less protective legality of freedoms. This was yesterday the line of the Socialist Members, this is ours today. At the end of 2016, the Law Commission of our assembly called for a refocusing of the use of the state of emergency. A new bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism is under preparation; Some elements are known. Searches and administrative subpoenas, the flagship measures of the state of emergency, would be part of the common law; They could then be decided not on the basis of objective findings, but on the basis of a vague logic based on suspicion. In considering this bill, it seems to me that we will have to address the issue of the review of these measures by the administrative or judicial judge. In connection with the state of emergency, the overhaul of anti-terrorism legislation, which had become complex following successive additions, would be necessary, without resulting in illegible and potentially infringing measures on the most fundamental rights. As I have written in a number of reports, notably on behalf of the Committee on European Affairs, in order to ensure the safety of our citizens, the security services must be better organised so that they can work together and exchange operational and non-theoretical information. We count on your vigilance to make things change.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u169	Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u170	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, together with Marine Le Pen and my colleagues here, we will vote for the extension of the state of emergency. I have listened carefully to all the speakers, and I would like to reassure Mr Mélenchon: I consider that I find myself inconvenient. I therefore accept with great interest all the arguments; I think they all have to be respected here. However, I had a moment of surprise – I express a surprise and not, I repeat, a criticism – by listening to a speaker from the group. France unsuspecting: I thought he was going to ask for a minute of silence for the damaged doors, which would be the main problem of the state of emergency... But let's go back to the essentials.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u171	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u172	We want to be a de jure and de facto opposition, not a street theatre opposition, housed in 1789, 1790, 1791, and so on. We want to play an objective, courageous and constructive role here – a word with the sulfurous smell that one dares to use too much here, a little by reason, it must be admitted. We shall of course vote, I repeat, for the extension of this state of emergency in the name of a single principle: the precautionary principle. We do not want, for any reason, the security of the homeland to be endangered in any way, because the legislation in force would not make available all the appropriate instruments. However, the state of emergency, introduced in 1955, must remain temporary, respond to imminent peril or calamity. It is not temporary, because calamity is not, because the peril of Islamic terrorism is permanent and it is necessary to have all the weapons to fight against it. I had asked here, in the previous legislature, for the intervention of the judicial judge, but the then socialist majority refused to do so. Moreover, it had been an opportunity for me, while its members booed me, to tell them that one day they would be fifty in this House and that we must always remain modest when we are in the majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u173	Be it yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u174	...because there comes a day when voters are held accountable and their decisions have to be explained to them. It is true that our police officers were attacked during the state of emergency, that damage was committed and that attacks took place, but who among us could afford to deprive our law enforcement forces of this instrument necessary to combat terrorism effectively? It does not prevent, let us have the courage to recognize it, the state of emergency undermines freedoms. So let us accept that this is the price to be paid to combat this calamity, this peril. But still, what a pity that the judicial judge, who, when he does not make a policy, is the guarantor of freedoms, is not designated to monitor what is happening, as I had asked. [[Applause on some benches]] A new law is coming soon. What a joke! The state of emergency, necessarily temporary, will eventually be maintained in the codes. I do not understand you, Minister of State: it would be better to extend it so that it is not included in the ordinary law; Once he is there, our country will be in a permanent state of emergency. What is serious, however, in view of the situation as a whole, is not the state of emergency, but the urgent need for a state, and that we miss it well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u175	The last speaker on the list is Mr Dimitri Houbron.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u176	Mr President, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of terrorism is to provoke fear and terror. Fear undermines all confidence in the political class, weakens us from within, demoralizes the public. Terrorism is not an expression of inescapable fury but a political weapon, because if a government is deprived of its facade of infallibility, the people no longer have confidence in it. The question is therefore clear: are we able to assume this immense responsibility, able to make the choice of courage by maintaining and prolonging the state of emergency or, on the contrary, will we succumb to the sirens of mortal inaction?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u177	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u178	I wanted to pay tribute here to the admirable dedication of these women and men of the shadows, of our forces of law and order, of our armed forces, who risk their lives every day for an ideal far greater than all of us. Their mission is to ensure our safety, the first of our freedoms. I also wanted to welcome the willingness of the Minister of State, the Minister of the Interior, Mr Gérard Collomb, to open this essential debate in these places. It seems necessary, at the dawn of the new legislature, to explain to our fellow citizens why maintaining a state of emergency is necessary. Our fundamental role is not to forget and to fight against the trivialization of this form of violence that challenges our living together and the foundations of our Republic. Indeed, if we forget only one of these acts, terrorists will gain, since their objective is precisely to get used to these tragedies, to make them our daily lives, to be part of our lives. The state of emergency, despite criticism, has enabled the competent services to effectively combat and contain large-scale terrorist threats. You, ladies and gentlemen, who oppose this extension, how can you assume the responsibility of reducing the protection of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u179	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u180	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Let's imagine for a second that this law is not being extended, let's imagine for a second that an attack is occurring this summer! Will you have the courage to go in front of the bereaved families to tell them that you have made the choice not to protect them?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u181	We know too much about this kind of argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mr Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u183	You shouldn't allow that, Mr. President! It's a personal fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u184	Those who oppose this extension invoke other means, such as the exit of the European Treaties, and they denigrate the Schengen agreements. But our European neighbours, I am thinking of the United Kingdom, have also been subjected to such attacks; This shows perfectly that no natural or man-made border will prevent Daesh's propaganda from passing through an open and interconnected world. Of course, the state of emergency was not created to respond to such a terrorist threat, but it is now the only effective weapon available to us. The state of emergency, however, is not intended to be extended indefinitely. We propose today to extend it one last time, until 1 November, after which we will start discussions and we will hear from each of you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u185	On all our amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u186	... to incorporate effective measures in the common law to ensure the protection of our citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Let us not forget those who lose their lives in these terrorist acts! Let us not forget that the victims of terrorism are our democracy and our innocence! Let us not forget that we owe security to our fellow citizens, that we, the elected representatives of the Republic, are responsible! I see a splendid country and a people of genius resisting this abyss; I see the beings for which we are committed, soothed, determined and free. What we are going to do today is much better than all our past actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u187	The general discussion is closed. I would point out to the many colleagues who have asked me that we will probably not be able to examine all the articles before 13.00 – unless everyone is very brief – and that we should therefore meet at 15.00 for another sitting. The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank all the speakers who spoke this morning because I am one of those who believe that the debate is enriching us collectively and that our democracy must allow everyone to express themselves, in this case on a subject that is obviously fundamental to our citizens. At the end of the general discussion, I would like to recall the philosophy guiding the Government: both to ask you to extend the state of emergency because we cannot unilaterally reduce custody, but at the same time to prepare a law that will include a number of measures that reconcile security and freedom, the protection of our fellow citizens and our individual and collective freedoms. I know that this balance will be difficult to find because everyone, depending on their sensitivity, may have to focus on one side rather than the other, but I think that together we should achieve this by taking into account the period we are living in. Several speakers recalled this: we are obviously not going from the shadows to the light; many measures have already been adopted in the past. But why is it necessary for every legislature to further enrich our legislation? No doubt simply because the threat itself is evolving and we are not facing the same kind of threats today as in the early days when attacks were being committed. There was a time when Daesh was triumphant and occupied an Islamic state, with a precise ideology. It should be stressed that it has not only a religious and philosophical aspect, but also an organisational aspect, with extremely well-organised services, based on Iraq's past, and therefore capable of remote control of attacks on our territory. Similarly, his propaganda instruments were extremely elaborate and able to carry the contagion in our country; We have seen how effective this propaganda is and how we lack the means to replicate it, in a way. Then, gradually, the threat became more protean, endogenous. That is what we need to take into account today, and that is why I will introduce a bill, which is already before the Senate yesterday in committee, on which we will have an opportunity to discuss. I will try to show you how the Government has sought the best balance between effective action and the protection of freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, we will do this by first trying to narrow down the scope of this legislation and its scope. We will then try to ensure that it is exclusively dedicated to the fight against terrorist action, i.e. it does not have a general purpose of protecting public order. There will therefore be no confusion between the protection of public order and the fight against terrorism. You will see the infinity of measures and precautions that we have taken in order to avoid the two being confused. Thus, political activists will not be affected by the measures taken, which will be aimed only at the commission of terrorist acts. Our will is to protect freedoms in our country. We may disagree with each other, but the right to manifest exists and must be safeguarded. Yet it must be exercised without ever taking the form of a call to violence, for in this case it would obviously become condemnable and fall under the influence of a number of laws. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Second, we are often told to be careful because our bill can be seen as a stigmatization of Muslims. My dear fellow Members, we do not wish that. We do not confuse Islam with the ideology of Daesh.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u190	An intellectual and cultural struggle must be waged to counter this Daesh ideology among Muslims and Muslims in our country. We must tell them that they must refer to the great period of Islam during which it brought civilization, with its great architects, its great philosophers, its great mathematicians. Do you know, for example, that what we know about Greece has often come from the Arab world? that the Greek texts were first translated into Arabic before being in Latin and inspired our Renaissance?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u191	As the Church condemned them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u192	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group and the MODEM group]] If we could make it clear to a number of young people claiming to be Muslims that it was at that time that we should refer rather than to the Middle Ages ideology of Daesh, we would have taken a considerable step towards eradicating a number of drifts. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and the MODEM group]] I think of the poor kid who suddenly leaves home, a knife in his hand, saying, "I'm going to kill some of them." It's unimaginable. We must lead the intellectual struggle in our country to combat this medieval ideology and we must tell all that Islam is not that. We must fight against these deviations from Islam. Thus the countries in which it is practiced will regain their place in the great civilization of the world. We are indeed contributing to the construction of a universal civilization. I thank each and every one of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u193	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u194	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u195	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, first speaker on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u196	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote without hesitation to extend the state of emergency because, every day, the Islamist threat is there and we must fight and eradicate it. But for that, we must start by saying who our enemies are. We are not threatened by faceless and nameless terrorism, but by Islamist terrorism. It must be said, otherwise we will lose a battle, for we have not clearly identified the ones we are fighting. So yes, I will vote for the extension of the state of emergency but, once again, let us not be afraid of words: we are at war, and when we want to win the war, we are giving ourselves the means. The Government is committed to this. We will ensure that he keeps his word, especially since in this area we have been served on unfulfilled promises. First example: the state of emergency should make it easier for us to close the radical mosques. What about the facts? If a handful of them have actually been closed, more than 120 are still in operation. Second example: the state of emergency should allow us to pursue more effectively those individuals who are ready to act. Without underestimating the work of our security services, how many continue to play our rule of law? Wasn't one of the S-cards arrested a few weeks ago the holder of a weapons license? According to the Minister of the Interior himself, about 100 people listed S would be in the same case. [[Applause on some benches]] So yes, I will vote for a state of emergency, as I will vote for effective control of our borders and for a overhaul of our security services. But I would like this state of emergency to be even more draconian for those who murder our children as well as for those who want to impose their law, customs and morals on us. I want a state of emergency that protects us, that allows us to win this war and to ruthlessly fight terrorists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u197	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u198	Mr President, Minister of State, as our colleague Emmanuelle Ménard has just told you, we will vote for the extension of the state of emergency while thinking that we have been in a state of emergency for a few months, made of pasta cardboard. Indeed, this state of emergency did not prevent anything: neither the attacks by police officers, nor the demonstrations, nor the attacks, nor the Night standing – by the way, it was only a summer on the island of Re that this movement was extinguished. It must therefore be noted that the state of emergency did not have the benefit that might have been expected, given the mobilization of State resources. We will vote for it even if we believe that your proposals do not contain the necessary provisions to combat Islamic terrorism. The state of emergency should be reconsidered: the closure of Salafist mosques, control and even the existence of borders. The measures that you propose to us and that you propose to us are far from them. [[Applause on some benches]] Finally, we will vote in favour because, as Gilbert Collard recalled, his prorogation does not make it part of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u199	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u200	Minister of State, I am sorry to take the floor again, but I do not know how to interpret your silence in the rostrum, when you responded to the general discussion, on the very specific operational questions that I asked you. Indeed, if we show the best will, since we are going to vote in favour of this bill as a state of legal emergency, some of the issues are basically a sort of operational and budgetary state of emergency. The first of the three questions I asked you was about overtime: will they be paid to the police and gendarmes? The second concerned the organization of working time within your ministry, which is currently under discussion; It could affect the operational capacity of the internal security forces. The third, above all, concerned the budgetary freeze: two days ago, in the rostrum of this House, the Prime Minister, in his general policy speech, announced to us that the appropriations of the Ministry of the Interior were not sanitized and that he was looking for €5 billion in savings in the implementation of the budget for 2017. How will this affect the internal security forces? On these points, our assembly should be enlightened by you, in a very precise way, before continuing the legal and technical debate on the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u201	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u202	Mr Larrivé, if I did not answer every speaker and speaker in the general debate, it was because there were many speakers. If I had to answer in detail to each and every one of them, it would have further extended the debate. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] But as far as you are concerned, Mr. Larrivé, if I did not answer you, it was rather out of sympathy, since this is the first session to examine a piece of legislation. Indeed, if I had had to answer to you about, for example, police and gendarmerie resources and personnel, I would have told you that between 2007 and 2012, 12,500 jobs were abolished:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u203	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u204	[[Applause on the benches of the REM Group, MODEM Group, NG Group, FI Group and GDR Group]] 6276 were in the police and 6243 in the gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u205	That's not the point! You better answer Mr. Larrivé!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u206	We understand, of course, that our country's means of protection have been reduced. It is only recently that we have started to create a number of positions again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u207	Your intervention is not on the level!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u208	During the period 2013-2016, 6500 jobs were re-created: 3618 in the police and 2933 in the gendarmerie. In 2017, 2286 jobs will be created: 2031 in the police and 255 in the gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u209	We're gonna get that kind of answer for five years?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u210	Mr Larrivé, I am now answering your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u211	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u212	We must, of course, like all departments, make a number of savings. We will look at and evaluate things because evaluation policy is one of the policies to be pursued. It is indeed necessary, every time we carry out an action, to evaluate it in order to see what the guarantees of savings are. At the same time, we do not want to repeat what has been done in the past, that is, the policy of the planing coup. Therefore, department by department, we will look at which positions must be preserved and which policies are being challenged; the arbitration will have to be rendered in the next few days. As far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, the main purpose of our policy will be to put more police officers on the ground tomorrow. I have indeed noticed, since I was Minister of the Interior, that negotiations on working time could result, despite the creation of posts, in the impossibility of sending more police officers and gendarmes to the field. I started this discussion, on the one hand, with all the prefects and, on the other hand, with the police organizations. Indeed, I know that the establishment of the daily security police to which the President of the Republic aspires requires resources on the ground. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] In addition, a number of the resources of our law enforcement agencies, such as vehicles or capabilities related to new technologies, still remain to be deployed. We will therefore defend these points in the arbitrations of the next few days and we will meet again to see if we have won them; This is a method that you know well.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u213	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 13 and 14, to delete Article 1. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u214	Indeed, Mr President, we have tabled, in the continuation of our previous statements, an amendment to delete Rule 1. But I would like to use my speaking time to question our colleagues in the Chamber. I would like no longer to hear any disrespectful intervention towards Members of our group, assimilating us to pro-terrorists or at least lending us the will to disarm the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u215	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u216	I'm talking about Mr. Houbron's speech. I understand that the speeches can be written in advance, but there is a need for some discernment and for a change of pace in view of the interventions heard in the House. I say very quietly, I am a former official of the Ministry of the Interior who, as such, participated in all the ceremonies held each time one of ours had fallen, even though, as opposed to the field staff, I was only a small administrative officer. I have nevertheless participated in all these ceremonies, with pride and with all the seriousness it imposes. Mr Fauvergue pointed out that the state of emergency saved time. In time, I told you about it earlier: it is the nerve of war, with the means. If we do not put resources on the table, we try to save time, bypassing the rule of law, that is the problem. It's a renunciation. That is why we call on you not to extend the state of emergency and to ask, in a responsible manner, the question of the means that should be put on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u218	Mrs Obono, would you like to support Amendment No 14?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u219	Indeed, Mr President, and I would also like to reply to Mr Houbron's inquiry: yes, we will all be responsible if a new attack takes place, because we are all political leaders; We have been elected to take over, discuss, debate and take responsibility for what is happening today.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u220	What does this have to do with the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u221	We will do so in a respectful manner, listening to each other's arguments, but we must listen that you listen to ours and take seriously what is said, as we do on our side.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u222	What about the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u223	My amendment, ladies and gentlemen, tends to delete Article 1. We believe, as many of my colleagues have said, that the extension of the state of emergency, as proposed, does not correspond to what should be done, either in the short term or in the long term. A few days ago, in front of this House, the Prime Minister insisted on the need to show courage. I was not convinced by the projects announced by the Government that it presented as acts of courage. On the other hand, I believe that, as Members, we have to show courage. To reject the extension of the state of emergency is to take note that what has been done in recent months has called into question the balance of powers and has undermined public freedoms and democratic rights. You have to say it, you have to explain it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u224	We have to synthesize!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u225	... and then we have to create legal, framed means, by flattening the devices used and promoting other rational security policies. We must have the courage to explain this to our fellow citizens and to implement another policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u227	What is the committee's opinion on these two deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u228	I will not resume all the discussions this morning. The majority's strategy is perfectly clear: it is to ensure that protections are maintained during the remaining period and that, at the same time, the translation into a common system is carried out, with a strengthening of safeguards. The committee therefore calls for these amendments to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u230	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u232	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u233	This amendment tends to extend the state of emergency for a longer period than that proposed by the Government. The plan is to run until 1 November; we propose an extension of six months, until 15 January 2018. Earlier, in the general discussion, I told you, Minister of State, that we were concerned about the content of the bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism. First, on the form, we have no guarantee that this text will be adopted before 1 November; Everything will depend on the vagaries of the parliamentary shuttle. Secondly, on the substance, we call for a constructive and responsible debate, so that we can get out of the state of emergency – if that is your objective – but with the guarantee that the provisions of the text can be used within the framework of ordinary law. This is not the case in the text you are proposing. It therefore takes an additional period of time. Remember the misadventures of previous governments. In referring to elements of the safety record, you take a risk, because there are also negative aspects. If you agree with this assessment, you have to do it in a global way and not stick to a few partial elements – just a moment ago, you talked about the numbers. So remember the misadventure of the previous Head of State: on July 14, at noon, he announced that he was going out of the state of emergency and that evening he was caught up in the tragic events that were cruelly affecting my city, Nice. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Further time is therefore required, and this is the subject of the amendment tabled by the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u235	The majority continues to assume their responsibilities in this regard. Prolongation of the state of emergency is still as necessary, given the imminent danger and the risks we face. The phase of a state of emergency in which we find ourselves has only been long because of the context, to go over the elections. All previous phases were three months. We wish to continue with this logic. As for the substantive text, we will have the results of the debate in the Senate at the end of July, which should allow us to continue and complete its consideration in time. The committee therefore wants your amendment to be rejected, Mr Ciotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u237	The text mentioned by Mr Ciotti will be discussed quite quickly: on 18 and 19 July in the Senate, and therefore as soon as the National Assembly is back in office. In view of the provisions put forward in his opening statement, namely his willingness to work together and to achieve a positive result for everyone, I believe that the deadline is sufficient. I therefore ask that his amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u238	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u239	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u240	Could you give us time to raise your hand, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u241	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 1. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u242	The aim is to respond to the findings of the information report on parliamentary oversight of the state of emergency, which recommended that the 1955 Act should be regulated. We propose to do so, with a maximum extension period of three months; Beyond that, it would be up to the Government to re-establish a state of emergency if it considered it necessary to do so. Three months seems to us to be the appropriate time to allow targeted interventions while limiting and controlling the decline in public freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u244	One can understand the intention of the authors of this amendment. However, there is no reason to place the Government under duress. If we come out of a six-month period, it is for obvious reasons of spanning the legislatures. Why limit decisions on this matter? The committee is against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u246	As the rapporteur has just pointed out, each period is different. For this reason, it would be imprudent to limit the duration of the state of emergency. In the past, different durations have been set according to events. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u247	I have before me two amendments, Nos 21 and 24, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u248	I propose the establishment of a non-permanent state of emergency review committee, composed of ten members and ten senators. This is in line with what I told you earlier about the means. The aim is that, as soon as the state of emergency is declared, a commission should be convened to assess the operational, material and human resources, to be implemented in order to ensure the return to the common law, in order to avoid that each time we are the knife under the throat, forced and forced to vote, with arguments on responsibility and irresponsibility, of the prolongations of the state of emergency, until the Government says: "have, and if an ordinary law is passed to take account of the problem? » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is the meaning of this amendment, which, like the previous one, is an amendment of common sense. I think that the majority could adopt it: it would be a good sign for the renewal of political life that we all call for; It is necessary to know reason to keep and break with the logic of rejecting in bloc everything that would not come from the majority. What a strange idea of the policy and operation of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u249	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u250	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u251	The purpose of this amendment is not to amend the current State of Emergency Act, but that of 1955, in order to better regulate the arrangements and to ensure automatic parliamentary control. I will explain myself, especially for our new colleagues. During the previous legislature, when the state of emergency was decreed, the chairman of the Law Committee of the National Assembly – it was at the time of Mr Urvoas, I believe – and the chairman of the Senate Law Committee agreed to ensure parliamentary oversight over the application of the 1955 law, which had never been done until then. The Government, led by Manuel Valls, accepted it. However, as it stands, there is no obligation on the part of the Government to do so. My amendment therefore seeks to ensure, as soon as a state of emergency is declared, that our assembly, both under this legislature and under its successors, has a representation, which I propose to set at seven members and seven senators, to examine how the state, that is not only the minister, but also the administration, uses the related powers. The November 2015 decree establishing a state of emergency gave the prefects unprecedented intrusive powers, such as the possibility of ordering administrative searches or house arrest, and the control was only put in place in a second phase. Most of the measures taken were, however, taken in the first few days. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I therefore believe that it is our responsibility, not only for the present period but also for the future, to decide, by adopting Amendment No 24, that, when a state of emergency is decreed and we divest ourselves of a number of our powers, it is compulsory, and not according to the good will of the government or the Assembly at the moment, to exercise parliamentary control, so as to better protect the freedoms of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u252	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u253	With Article 4(1) of the 1955 Act, my colleague, we have introduced the concept of control by Parliament. This provision, which ensures stability and reactivity, we are the guarantors of it. Why therefore propose the creation of a non-permanent committee? The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u255	I understand Mr. Lagarde's intention. However, I would like to remind you of the provision that has just been mentioned by the rapporteur. In addition, the control of the assemblies was significantly strengthened during the fourth extension of the state of emergency in July 2016. As of 25 July 2016, the Law Commissions of the two Assemblies were thus sent a copy of the measures taken on the basis of the Act of 3 April 1955, which enabled the rapporteurs concerned to have complete knowledge of all these measures. I spoke extensively to the Senate yesterday with rapporteur Michel Mercier. The rapporteurs of the two Law Commissions are informed of everything that happens during the state of emergency. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u256	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u257	I will respond quickly, Mr President, to try to convince our colleagues in the majority groups. A check has indeed been put in place, as you have just said, Minister of State. But who's informed? Two people per assembly. Who, then, was informed under the previous legislature? A representative of the Socialist Group, then the majority, and another of the LR Group, then the main opposition group, were two persons. None of the other groups – and now there are seven of them on our benches – could know to what extent and under what conditions Parliament's control over intrusive acts, with regard to public freedoms, on the part of the Government and its administration. I'm sorry to tell you, colleagues of the La République en Marche group: you are now the majority, but one day – as far as you wish – you will not be. The measure that I propose, with the creation of a committee composed of seven senators and seven deputies, would ensure that all the political forces represented here – a fortiori when a proportional share is applied, in accordance with the announcements of the President of the Republic – can participate in the control of the public freedoms of our fellow citizens. The state of mind of this measure is therefore in no way contrary to what has just been mentioned: it is only a question of guaranteeing sometimes contradictory, not complicit, control – since I am endeavouring to ensure, through my amendment, a representation of the Assembly as it is now constituted – the measures that a Government could take in the circumstances we are talking about. You now have confidence in the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, but tomorrow? Will you give the same confidence in another government? By rejecting my amendment, as you are asked to do, you would expose yourself to the reproach of having closed your eyes, of having agreed to remain absent at the time when we control measures affecting the freedoms of our citizens. I hope, in the name of the future, that you will take responsibility for adopting this common sense measure, which will in no way hinder the freedom of action of a government but will only allow it to be controlled. This is the least of all on the part of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u258	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u259	I would like to explain my vote and to welcome Mr Lagarde's argument. I appeal to the high democratic sensitivity, which I know, of the Minister of the Interior. The current conditions are not really controllable, even if I mean, like everyone else, what you have said about providing the two rapporteurs with information. However, our colleague Lagarde has stressed the provisional, circumstantial and limited nature of this control, regardless of our assessment of the law in question and its appropriateness. For although we do not agree – as you can see – we all share, I believe, the will to do everything possible to guarantee, in the context of an exceptional legal order, ordinary freedom law. What means do we have to do this, if not control, in this Parliament? Basically, the idea is the same, you will agree, Mr. Lagarde. There is no fear to have, ladies and gentlemen: parliamentary scrutiny is increasing the decision, and in conclusion, I will take an example. During the War of Fourteen – a distant memory, a living memory for none of us – a parliamentary committee was monitoring, commenting and discussing all military operations. Isn't that extraordinary? And we defeated. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In addition to the argument of efficiency put forward by our two colleagues – one suggesting that the means should be controlled as much as the operations themselves – we would grow our democracy by showing that it is able to dominate all situations, thanks to democratic principles themselves, including a measure on which we do not agree: the extension of the state of emergency. However, you have understood well, Minister of State, that we agree with the idea that a state of emergency is sometimes necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u260	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u261	My question is for the Chair of the Law Committee. The parliamentary oversight committee that Jean-Christophe Lagarde and our comrade without ties both call for their wishes: it is the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, which you have the honour, Mrs Braun-Pivet, to chair. My suggestion is simple. We could usefully do two things: on the one hand, each law commissioner could receive, every week, the figures that the Ministry of the Interior already sends to Parliament; On the other hand, as early as September, under your presidency, we could organise hearings and field trips to ensure our monitoring mission. The law already offers us all the means to do this, it is pointless to amend it on this point. We must now have the will to do so, and I hope, Madam Chair of the Committee, that you will share this will with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u262	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u263	I'll be very brief. It should not be suggested that our committee is not already exercising parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u264	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u265	As we have indicated in committee, in plenary and in bureau meetings, there is now parliamentary scrutiny of the measures taken in the context of the state of emergency, and I am working on this. The data provided daily to the Law Commission is published on the National Assembly website every three weeks. In short, the figures for all measures taken in the context of the state of emergency are published and known: control exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u266	Control is not numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u267	I have at my side, for the exercise of this oversight, the rapporteur of the bill that will be considered in September, as well as the co-rapporteur of the bill, whom we will appoint next week. I therefore see no reason today to change parliamentary scrutiny of the measures taken in the context of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u268	Mr President, I have asked for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u269	Shh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u270	Nevertheless, I agree, Mr. Larrivée, to go further, at the beginning of the year, in the exercise of this control.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u271	You asked for the floor, Mr. Collard? If I don't see him, you can give me a little word.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u272	You don't see to the right, Mr. President; That's why I allowed myself to insist.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u273	My gaze sweeps the whole Chamber, Mr Collard. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u274	He's sweeping pretty little on our side... Anyway, I'll tell you we're here. I, along with Marine Le Pen and my colleagues on this side of the House, support these amendments, which are democratic. Madam Chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, would you kindly inform me of the exact state of control in practice? What exactly were we able to control? Democratic control – and I say it all the more freely because we will not participate in it – is essential. That is why we support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u275	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u276	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u277	You will allow me to express my agreement with Mr.Larrivé: the means of control available to the Law Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate today are very important. The most confidential information shall be communicated to their respective chairpersons and rapporteurs. You will easily understand that, during the Fourteenth War, the parliamentary committee was informed of the broad strategic lines, not necessarily of the tactics deployed on the ground. The Government's opinion therefore remains unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u278	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-06-E1003.u279	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate after the expedited procedure, extending the application of Act No. 55-385 of 3 April 1955 on a state of emergency. The meeting is adjourned.
