ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann and several of his colleagues for the proper application of the European asylum system (No 331, 427).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u2	Mr Olivier Becht spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u3	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, Mr rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, since 2010, Europe has been facing one of the most important migration crises in its contemporary history. The crisis was greatly exacerbated in 2015 by conflicts in the Middle East: in 2015 more than one million people entered the Schengen area illegally. We all remember the untenable images of migrants crossing borders, seas and mountains at the risk of their lives, and we are all aware that these tragic events do not belong only to the past or to the present, for everything suggests that they will only increase in the future. France has a historical tradition of receiving asylum seekers. It is also the honour of the Republic to grant asylum on its lands to any person persecuted on account of race, religion, nationality, membership of a social group, political opinions or struggle for freedom. But this moral commitment must not prevent us from remaining lucid and looking at reality. This reality is that, alongside refugees whose lives are at real risk, there are many migrants who are simply looking for better economic prospects. This reality is also that conflicts, trafficking and climate change will significantly increase migratory pressure. In 2016, France received more than 86000 asylum applications, 42% more than in 2012. It is now the third largest host country in Europe, behind Germany and Italy. These unprecedented increases become alarming when we see that our asylum system is already suffering from the excessive length of processing times for applications. It was true that the Government had recently announced a number of measures, including the action plan to guarantee the right to asylum and better control migration flows, as well as future legislative reforms, which should, inter alia, make it possible to better combat irregular immigration, shorten the average processing time and increase the capacity of accommodation facilities. The IUD, Action and Independent Group naturally subscribes to this ambition, but we would like to remind you, Minister of State – I apologize for this parenthesis – that, in recent years, the public authorities have responded only in an emergency to try to deal with situations that have gone beyond all of us. The reforms that you will be carrying out tomorrow will therefore not be enough to be cyclical: they must be structural.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u4	They are!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u5	This is particularly the case with this bill. It does not claim to solve the migration issue, which depends for many of us on the measures we will take to ensure peace, contribute to democratic and climate stability and economic prosperity in the regions of the world that are currently in chaos. The ambition of this text is more modest, but what it proposes is nevertheless necessary: it is necessary to have adequate and coordinated legislation, both at European and national level, to bring asylum procedures into line with our reception capacity, but also with the humanistic values that shape our country and our continent. Since 1990, three successive "Dublin" regulations have clarified the competences of the Member States of the European Union, in particular the criteria for determining the country competent to process the asylum application in order to prevent an applicant from applying for several successive asylum applications. The last regulation, adopted in 2013 and called Dublin III, sets out several such criteria. However, the procedure for determining the country responsible for examining the asylum application and then transferring the person may take several months. During this period, the applicant may enjoy the right to remain in the territory until the end of the procedure. The Dublin Regulation therefore establishes a simple principle in theory, but it poses many problems in practice, since it makes the whole process of taking over applicants based on the countries through which they entered. However, they often only wish to transit through these countries, for example Italy or Greece, since they are more interested in reaching countries where the economic prospects are more favourable. These movements of people who cross a State of the European Union with the aim of travelling to another Member State or seeking asylum after having already done so elsewhere are on the increase. In France, the number of asylum seekers under the Dublin procedure was 5000 in 2014 and 26000 in 2016. It exceeded 21000 in the first half of 2017, an increase of 175% compared to the same period the previous year. In the face of this phenomenon, the administration is already overburdened: the procedures are getting longer and less and less successful. This will only worsen. In France, in 2016, only 9% of the foreigners under Dublin procedure who the Member States had agreed to take over were actually transferred. Of the remaining 91%, or 12700 people, who are waiting for a transfer, many are forced to live in unworthy humanitarian conditions in a large country such as ours, as evidenced by the camps in Calais or Paris. The situation is of concern; There is even an urgent need to find solutions. France must therefore guarantee the proper application of the European asylum system in order not to further burden its traditional, already saturated asylum system. To do so, we need to change our national legislation. Indeed, decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union – the CJEU – as well as French judicial and administrative courts have weakened the application of the Dublin Regulation by depriving the public authorities of a procedure provided for by the European Union: administrative detention. The Council of State has thus held that, in the present state of law, the prefect cannot place an alien who is the subject of a transfer procedure in administrative detention prior to the intervention of the transfer decision. The Court of Cassation and the Court of Justice of the European Union have also found detention measures to be inapplicable. While it is up to national legislation to lay down the objective criteria establishing the existence of a significant risk of the applicant's flight, our right is silent in this respect. The purpose of this bill is to draw the consequences of these judgments and to include in our national law a definition of the objective criteria for the detention of a person under Dublin procedure. This is the objective of Article 1. Article 1 bis, on the other hand, is intended to exclude from this provision aliens who present themselves in good faith and for the first time to the administrative authorities in order to register their applications. Finally, article 2 seeks to open the possibility of detaining a person not only after the transfer decision, but also at the outset of the procedure for determining the State responsible for examining his application. It is therefore a matter of ensuring the effective implementation of the Dublin procedure by allowing, in some cases, administrative detention, which may prove to be operationally indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u7	Far from the cartoons that could be made of it, this bill aims to fill a gap in our right to enable our asylum system to respond to European commitments, with solidarity and responsibility, respecting fundamental freedoms and in the continuity of our historical tradition of reception.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u8	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u9	For you, to welcome is to place in detention? Great!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u10	It is by allowing each country to quickly investigate asylum applications for which it is responsible, together with physically present applicants, that we will ensure the sustainability of our asylum systems and the dignity of the people who have been thrown on the migration routes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u12	Where is dignity in administrative detention centres? Go visit it and we'll talk about it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] It is our political responsibility but also our duty to humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u14	I preferred your text on football!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u15	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u16	Mr President, Mr President, the Minister of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, our House has to deal with drafts or proposals for legislation with a great deal of regularity to establish or amend the law of foreigners in our territory and, occasionally, to deal with asylum. Since 2011, we have passed six laws. This time, according to the authors, this bill seeks to secure the legal regime for the administrative detention of aliens under the so-called "Dublin" regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u17	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u18	That's right! The text consists of two articles. My remarks will successively focus on what the Dublin regime means, on the ambiguities of this proposal and the risks inherent in it, on the lack of a perspective with a comprehensive policy and on what is most lacking in our policy in order to be effective in this area. The Dublin Regulation sets out the criteria and mechanisms for determining which EU Member State is responsible for examining an asylum application. This is primarily the responsibility of the Member State which has played the most important role in the applicant's entry into the Union. The agreements concluded define several hierarchical criteria for determining the State responsible for processing the application: country which has issued a visa to the applicant or in which the applicant could join a family member, State whose applicant has illegally crossed the border, etc. In practice, this implies that the responsibility for the vast majority of asylum applications lies with a small number of EU states. I am thinking in particular of those who are most at risk because of their proximity or territorial contiguity to immigration routes in Europe: Greece – which you mentioned, Mr rapporteur – and Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania are the most affected countries. In January 2017, as part of his campaign, the President of the Republic had indicated that he wanted to reopen the debate on the Dublin agreements, which left the care of asylum seekers to the countries of first arrival in the Union. Everything left – and still leaves – the impression that it is a question of better sharing the constraints linked to borders which, in Europe, are common to us, with some states bearing more than others a special burden in this respect, and, on the other hand, by working together and cooperating more closely, to better control access to European territory by distinguishing refugees and economic migrants and by applying different treatment according to their situation. Let us turn now to the ambiguities of this proposal and its inherent risks. Article 1 introduces the possibility, according to the explanatory memorandum, of "administrative detention of an alien subject to a procedure for the determination of the Member State responsible" from the moment when the French State submits an application for treatment with the supposed first-time host State. In this regard, the bill refers to the notion of "not negligible risk of flight", in response – if I dare say so – to a decision of the Court of Cassation of 27 September 2017, which made it illegal to detain "dublined" persons in the absence of a mechanism objectifying the reasons of the latter. The Court of Cassation only recalled that the detention of persons concerned by the provisions of Articles 22 and 28 of the Regulation of 26 June 2013, known as "Dublin III", was possible where there was a "significant risk of leakage" and there was no binding general provision. In the situation covered by the proposed law, an irregular alien would be placed in an administrative detention centre. The scheme thus provides for a "pre-trial detention" procedure even before a transfer decision has been issued. The asylum-seeker may therefore be compelled by a measure of deprivation of liberty pending the decision to which he is to be subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u19	That's the very principle of detention!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u20	In order to objectiveize the situation of the person being detained, criteria are proposed to indicate that there is a "significant risk of leakage". Article 1 thus states that this risk may be considered as established in a number of cases. The verb "can" translates the non-limitative character of situations. This flexibility may be useful, but it also entails a risk of extension. Among the items covered is the fact that the asylum-seeker has concealed elements of his identity. It is specified, however, that this cannot be presumed solely on the ground that the person concerned does not have proper identity papers or travel documents. It is clear that, for a refugee fleeing war or persecution or even slavery in a third country, the failure to dispose of his documents or to be in good standing is not exceptional.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u21	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u22	One of the reasons for detention is also the situation of the rejected alien in the Member State responsible. If this statement is of common sense, however, it raises some problems, for the simple reason, as I will explain later, that countries have a different appreciation of what a safe state is. More generally, with the new regime created by the proposed law, the administrative authority, which must achieve results, may be tempted to systematically highlight the risk of flight, thus generalising administrative detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u23	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u24	The National Consultative Commission on Human Rights, which is a body of our Republic, noted in October 2017 that, with regard to migrants, the State authorities sometimes showed a reluctance not to apply certain protective provisions or, on the contrary, zeal to prosecute those they found guilty. Moreover, in the current drafting of the bill, children, women and vulnerable persons do not escape this logic of preventive management, which may violate the protection provisions affecting them, which allow differential treatment. Some of the amendments I will propose on behalf of the New Left Group are intended to ensure that the measures taken are proportionate to the risk – which would lead us to call for the deletion of the articles of the bill if they were not to be amended – thus refusing any systematisation. Others aim to ensure that the measures taken will respect the rights of children and families. Let us now turn to what seems to me to be the lack of perspective of this bill with a more comprehensive policy. First, as the rapporteur has said, a bill is being prepared and is expected to be introduced next March. It aims, inter alia, to extend the period of detention and to clarify the regime applicable to refugees. Like any bill, it will be accompanied by an impact assessment, in an area where the executive authority has the hand – if I may say so. In the present case, no indication is given as to the possible effects of this law: there is no data on how many people could actually be affected when our country files a request for care with the supposed first-time host State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u25	The Council of State has pronounced itself!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u26	For those who, unfortunately, are accustomed to seeing the gaps between intentions and reality, it is not uncommon to find that the foreigner who is to be placed in an administrative detention centre cannot be placed in an administrative detention centre because of lack of space. The draft law will also be the subject of an opinion by the Council of State, which will ensure that the system complies with European law. Secondly, the European regulation is being revised, and that is, as I have explained at the moment, a direction that is affirmed at the highest level of the state. For these reasons alone, I am surprised that there is no further question as to the appropriateness of the bill. Finally, readmission procedures to responsible States are already ineffective: in 2016, only 10% of the transfer procedures were completed. Some States of the Union do not carry out the necessary diligence so as not to have to assume responsibility for asylum applications. In a practical way, the responsible State is often the one in which the applicant's fingerprints were first collected, as soon as he declares himself or is subject to a check to establish his identity. This is where the pack hurts: barely a quarter – 23% – of irregular crossings of an external border of the Union lead to fingerprinting. Nearly two thirds of those arrested by the border police refuse to submit to this formality, which in our country is punishable by a fine and imprisonment. It appears that few migrants are prosecuted by the courts. As a result, most of the time, databases are not available to determine whether a person is subject to the Dublin agreements. This is tantamount to saying that it is difficult to know from the outset whether the person has crossed the borders of another State. In other words, the Dublin system, in its very principle, is struggling to be applied. Moreover, the more comprehensive issue of migrants from a State deemed safe or having transited through a third State considered safe by France remains outstanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u27	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u28	For all these reasons, the New Left Group will not vote on the bill. It calls for genuine consultation with all actors: the State, political forces, civil society, associations and researchers. It also calls for mobilisation within the framework of Europe and for prior consultation of national parliaments with a view to the revision of the European Regulation. I'm counting on your mobilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u29	I very much regret your position!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u30	You're the one who's wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u31	In short, you propose to return to the right of six months ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u32	Six laws have been passed in recent years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u33	Six months!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u34	We don't agree, Mr. Warsmann, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u35	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u36	Mr President, the Minister of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law "allowing a proper application of the European asylum system" is the result of two judicial decisions – European and national – which have weakened the legal framework of the Dublin procedures, thus of the asylum policy of the European Union. This, defined by the Dublin III Regulation and the Law of 29 July 2015, is reduced to a policy of managing applications by systematizing the referral to the country responsible for examining the asylum application. Why this bill? When you're in the opposition, even if it's constructive,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u37	I'm in the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u38	When you're in the constructive majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u39	In the short majority: I support the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u40	It's not that obvious, because it changes according to the bills!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u41	There are independents in our group. They have the right to be part of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u42	Go on, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u43	I am trying to continue my speech, but the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u44	I was elected to support the president!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u45	Only Mr Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u46	It seemed to me that the parliamentary niches were political milestones, markers, identifiers, and not means of making technical adjustments, following the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u47	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u48	You're in the middle of using your niche,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u49	We're talking about a "reserved agenda"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u50	...day though precious because niches are rare, to achieve a technical adjustment. The intention was commendable, but the text was a thousand miles away from the real stakes of the refugee issue. In addition, a text on the subject was planned by the Government in the spring. But maybe you passed, within the framework of this niche,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u51	Agenda reserved!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u52	...an agreement with the Government? Or is it a real political marker for you to say that administrative detention is a necessity for Dublin procedures? If you wanted to highlight the migration issue, why didn't you make a proposal on climate refugees, a real topic for the future and which was the subject of one of our questions to the Government? But no: you prefer to stay on to a simple change resulting from the case law. I come to the content of the bill. You are asking the question of "pre-removal", by proposing a cornelian choice between house arrest and administrative detention. In reality, this bill aims at deciding the debate on whether or not the use of detention is systematic within the framework of Europe's asylum policy – and therefore of France. Your proposal demonstrates an obsession with retention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u53	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u54	These are like the beginnings of the government bill. What a strange welcome, for a refugee who will probably win in his asylum application,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u55	Not necessarily!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u56	...that of being placed in administrative detention! Should I remind you of the various observations made by the general monitor of places of deprivation of liberty on administrative detention centres? With the Law Commission, we visited prisons; In order to inform our discussions, we should probably visit administrative detention centres in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u57	Your visits are allowed by an amendment that I voted for!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u58	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u59	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u60	You are aware that these debates are of great concern to civil society and, first and foremost, to asylum seekers and asylum actors. In fact, this bill is the beginning of the Minister of the Interior's future asylum bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u61	That's terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u62	The recent statements by the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, who described the treatment of migrants in Libya as a crime against humanity, could reassure us. But this type of discourse in favour of the protection of migrants is of total hypocrisy: it is a communication plan drawn up in response to terrifying images since, "at the same time", you harden the conditions of reception. In the end, words don't mean anything anymore. Reception is detention. What a strange conception of hospitality!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u63	The welcome is for people who have reason to come!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u64	[[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] The group La France insoumée is not fooled by the positioning of the group of Constructives, whether they are independent or not, which sets the necessary milestones for the Government's asylum policy: the establishment of a real principle of detention, therefore of a presumption of risk of flight; management of Dublin procedures through systematization of detention. You therefore consider that detention is the cornerstone of France's and Europe's asylum policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u65	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u66	I weigh my words: this system completes the "democraty". Your risk ideology dangerously undermines the democratic principles of our regime and gradually permeates all the principles that make up our Republic: after the age of suspicion, this is the era of risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u67	That's the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u68	In your opinion, is that what Europe is protecting?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u69	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u70	You are killing Europe through such dehumanizing policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u71	What sense would the right of asylum have if granted to everyone?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u72	With this bill, you had the opportunity to build an asylum policy that would act in advance of migration and allow for the dignified reception of migrants and refugees – because a dignified reception can be effective and pragmatic. For the La France group, we must go back to the concept of a safe country, which is politically dangerous and is not respectful of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u73	What an unbearable concept!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u74	[[Smile]] The placement of children in detention centres, even with their parents, must be stopped. The right to asylum in the territory of the Republic and the reception of refugees under the asylum system must be reaffirmed and maintained through an administration adapted to that mission. I will not go back to the under-funding of this policy under the 2018 Finance Bill, given the increase in demands – our colleagues in the Take Action group, etc. presented the figures very well earlier. You do not address the causes of migration at any time and do so as if it were only a technical question of compliance with a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This kind of problem must not be seen by the little bit of the lorgnette. We warn you of the effects of your bill and your ideology on our society. Not only is your logic of tightening the conditions for access and examination of the asylum procedure ineffective at the operational level – which is dear to you – but it also seriously undermines the social cohesion of our country because, in the end, we are all children of immigrants. This institutional view is the one that has devastated this necessary bond of our living together. It is not idealism, and we know that in these dark days when our democracy is at stake, it is increasingly difficult to convey this message without being reproached, as your attitude has shown during my intervention. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The resignation seems to take precedence over its passage fundamental rights. I will conclude this speech with a quote from Stéphane Hessel: "It is up to us all to ensure that our society remains a society of which we are proud: not this society of undocumented people, expulsions, suspicions of immigrants".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u75	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u76	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already had the opportunity to say here, emigrating is always a pain for the one who is forced to leave, whatever the reasons. It is obvious, but it is useful to recall it, because it guides, or rather should guide, our political action. However, since 2015 and the arrival of more than 1 million refugees in Europe, the Member States, including France, have revealed their inability to receive these men, women and children with dignity and to define a coordinated and comprehensive asylum policy. Meanwhile, the shipwrecks took place in the Mediterranean and cost the lives of several thousand adults and children. Faced with the proliferation of these tragedies, the fundamental and essential nature of the right of asylum should have led the European States to reaffirm the unconditionality of reception, to ensure respect for the rights of persons and to implement the 1951 Geneva Convention. Far from these basic requirements, the European Union and the Member States have, on the contrary, adopted a security approach. The strengthening of border protection with the building of ever-higher and secure barriers, the extremely restrictive Community visa policy, the development of the FRONTEX agency responsible for monitoring and expulsions, and the outsourcing of border controls by subcontracting migration controls to neighbouring countries have helped to consolidate the fortress Europe. These mechanisms aim to prevent, at all costs, migrants from reaching European territory, regardless of whether or not they are seeking protection, regardless of whether we are responsible for conflicts that force them to flee, regardless of whether they are affected by violations of their fundamental rights. And for those who still reach Europe, their control is immediate. The Schengen area, which is supposed to be an area of free movement, is not for migrants. The Dublin III Regulation imposes on them a country responsible for examining their application, often the country by which the applicant has entered European territory. The Dublin system is, as you know, criticized by many actors: academics, non-governmental organisations, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees – UNHCR. This system is both unfair and ineffective. It is unfair because it removes the applicant's will from the outset as a matter of principle and arbitrarily designates only one Member State as the person responsible for the asylum application. It is also unjust because it leads to violations of the rights of applicants, in particular by allowing their transfer to Member States where reception conditions constitute inhuman and degrading treatment, contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In several cases, the Courts of Strasbourg and Luxembourg had no choice but to condemn the States responsible for such transfers – this was the case for Belgium, Italy and Greece. This system is also inefficient, because it requires significant and costly logistics for results far below the stated objectives. This failure was inevitable since it places considerable weight on the border countries through which migrants enter Europe. In any event, the fate of the dublinés is a matter of concern. Prefectures are increasingly locking them up by arguing that there is a "significant risk of flight", pending their effective transfer to the EU Member State declared responsible for examining their asylum application. However, as the Defender of Rights recently pointed out, "references to the name of Dublin are not compulsory", since there is "a clause in the regulation which allows France to take their application for asylum into account, as there is an article of our Constitution which also makes it possible to do so". It is for this reason that Emmanuel Macron himself declared, at a European Council in late June 2017, that "we must welcome refugees, because it is our tradition and our honour". But the reality is far from this presidential injunction. The policy implemented has increased the control of asylum seekers and has weakened their rights and guarantees. What about thousands of people on the street, in the most complete deprivation? It is enough to go, as I do every day, to the gates of Paris, especially at the door of the Chapel, to realize the absolutely unworthy welcome that we offer to these men, women and children. It is no longer bearable that political discourses are so far from the reality of the ground. This bill, it seems to me, perpetuates this gap. It further strengthens asylum policy and is a perfect illustration of the huge gap between the proclamation of applicants' rights and the effectiveness of these rights. Thus, while the Court of Cassation, in a judgment of 27 September 2017, has aligned itself with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, in order to declare illegal the detention of asylum seekers under Dublin procedure, this bill proposes an amendment to our law in order to "secure the detention" of dublinés. The aim is to circumvent the prohibition imposed by the case law, by including in national law a definition of the objective criteria for characterising a "significant risk of leakage". The definition adopted is very broad and, as the CIMADE rightly points out, the new definitions "include almost all cases in order to allow the administration the possibility to lock up as many people as possible".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u77	What a truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u78	Worse, by allowing detention before the transfer decision, it is possible that detention is not based on an expulsion decision: preventive detention – a retention of comfort, in a way – is allowed, as long as the administration determines the State responsible for processing the asylum application. Detention may therefore apply to a very large number of people in Dublin proceedings, which may lead to massive and disproportionate confinement. The objective is clear: to increase the retention rates and then transfers of the dublinés. We reject this drift, which is to multiply obstacles and controls in order to impede the access of foreigners to their fundamental rights. The Communist MEPs reaffirm their willingness to implement an ambitious and generous policy towards migrants, based on respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. They consider that France must show responsibility and bear in mind the immense human and material contribution that foreigners have already made. Migrants should not be seen as a burden to society. The repressive migration policy, which had been pursued for several years, had reduced the migrant to the figure of the illegal, intended to be expelled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u80	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u81	Mr President, the Minister of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have met this evening to debate and vote on a proposal for a law that will enable the European asylum system to be properly applied tomorrow. I would like to remind you that the Dublin III Regulation is a cornerstone of European asylum policy and a guarantee of respect for the framework of the area of free movement. This bill comes after several national and European case law. The Court of Justice of the European Union thus ruled on 15 March 2017 that any administrative detention of an asylum-seeker in Dublin proceedings is prohibited if the notion of risk of flight is not incorporated into the national law of the Member State. Article 28 of the Dublin III Regulation states: "Member States may detain the persons concerned in order to guarantee the transfer procedures in accordance with this Regulation where there is a significant risk of their escape, on the basis of an individual assessment and only to the extent that the detention is proportional and if other less coercive measures cannot be effectively applied. » These agreements provide in particular that the country of the European Union in which the asylum-seeker first arrived becomes the country competent to decide on the application. Each country therefore collects the fingerprints of applicants arriving on its territory and registers them in the European fingerprint database for asylum, known as EURODAC. In order to facilitate and speed up trade between the different administrations of the States of the Union, in the context of requests for take-over or take-over, the States have agreed to set up an intranet network called Dublinet. This proposal for a law, the purpose of which is to enable France to respect European law relating to asylum seekers, is in line with the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. It allows us to have a more appropriate and protective legislative framework for foreigners seeking asylum in our territory at the same time. Placement in administrative detention is conditional on a personal assessment of each situation, a requirement of proportionality, taking into account the state of vulnerability and the ineffectiveness of any other less coercive measure. I would like to provide you with some additional information. The foreigners affected by the Dublin Regulation in 2016 are just over 100,000 in Europe and 22,500 so-called "dubline" foreigners applied for asylum in France. We have all followed closely the situation of the camps in Grande-Synthe and Calais: after several dismantlings, it has been shown that more than 70% of the occupants were affected by the Dublin Regulation and were not intended to be in the national territory. According to the figures of the Ministry of the Interior, 40% of applications registered in prefecture are duplicates because applicants have already been registered in other Member States of the Union. These data demonstrate the need for measures to enable asylum-seekers to be better protected and to obtain a much faster response than if a procedure were to be re-launched in the national territory. You know as well as I do: today, France wants to take all its responsibilities in the face of the migration challenge, but it will not be able to do so if "dublined" people and people who are not destined to stay in the national territory congested the prefectures as well as the emergency accommodation centres, so that people sleep in the street or in tents, in inhumane and unworthy conditions that flout republican values. This bill allows us to incorporate into our law a response to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union which recalls the rules that define the "not negligible risk of flight". It is therefore the judge of freedoms and not the prefect who can place people in detention. This distinction is fundamental because it will help to avoid drifts and will create security for the detention of foreigners under Dublin procedure. I would like to point out that the procedure laid down in the bill is not intended to become the ordinary procedure. On the other hand, it must be noted that the asylum system within the European Union calls for constructive criticism, aimed at introducing a change in the right of European asylum, in order to achieve a uniform and harmonised asylum package and freedom of movement. This evolution of Union law should create a balance between the Member States in terms of reception. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group and on a few benches in the UAI group]] Some States face difficulties in receiving and managing flows. It is therefore inconceivable for other Member States to opt out of the stability mechanism for the resettlement of asylum seekers. Together, we must face the migration challenge. The countries of the European Union must agree on clear concepts, which will enable us to respect the fundamental principle of solidarity and demonstrate that all Member States will be able to welcome and integrate the refugees who have asked us for protection in the long term. For all these reasons, the bill must be supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u83	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u84	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, like all the Republicans, I am of course committed to respect for the right of asylum, which is supposed to allow the reception of political refugees, i.e. freedom fighters. Everyone has in mind this beautiful sentence of the preamble of the 1946 Constitution: "Every man persecuted for his work in favour of freedom has the right to asylum in the territories of the Republic. This is the essence of the right to asylum, and we are faithful to the legacy of the French Revolution, renewed by our international commitments, including the 1951 Geneva Convention. Every year, people are legitimately received in France as such and are granted political refugee status, either by the administration, with the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons (OFPRA), or by the judge in the National Court of Asylum. The problem, as we know – I will not go back to the figures that have already been given in this general discussion – is that tens of thousands of candidates for illegal immigration, who are not real political refugees, use asylum procedures to stay in France. Despite the organizational efforts that have been made in recent years within OFPRA, under the aegis of its Director-General, who is a competent and committed man, the overall deadlines for examination remain very long, when adding up the passage to the prefectures, the procedure for examining the asylum application itself and, as decisions are the subject of an appeal in the vast majority of cases, the time limit for appeal. All this time, as we know, these people settle in France and when they are, in the end, rejected, that is to say definitively recognised as not being political refugees, they very rarely leave our country and join the huge cohort of illegals. According to the figures that the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, told us a few weeks ago, foreigners in an illegal situation are between 300,000 and 400,000 in France. The application review system is therefore experiencing some form of thrombosis. It is not globally fair or effective. My conviction is that these dysfunctions are aggravated by the bureaucratic labyrinth, which today takes the place of European asylum policy. Because the various regulations and directives on asylum, combined with the directive on expulsion, give rise to jurisprudential interpretations which have gradually distanced themselves from the original will of the political authorities which have negotiated and approved these texts. Our debate this night is an example of this. No French or European political authority, whatever its colour, has ever decided to block the Dublin system, which is based on a simple and strong idea: since the European Union is a community governed by law, a foreign person applying for asylum in a European State is not intended to apply for it in another country of the Union. Therefore, the European States are perfectly justified in organising the legal and practical mechanisms for implementing this Dublin system, which has a real political meaning: since we form the European Union, that we constitute a community of law and that we share a number of values, it is natural that the asylum-seeker who comes to knock on the door of Germany or Italy cannot then come knocking on the door of France. In practical terms, it is normal for a person who has applied for asylum in another European country than France and who nevertheless comes to our country to be brought back to the first country; In order to do so, it is not unusual for it to be temporarily placed by the French authorities in a closed centre allowing its effective return.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u85	We don't all have the same rules, Mr. Larrivée!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u86	It is not a question of placing in a detention centre to place in a detention centre. The foreigner has, moreover, often been the subject of a judicial decision confirming the legitimacy and legality of his detention centre – a temporary placement, pending the preparation of his actual removal. This is how the Dublin system was designed and applied for years. Since I have a little time, I'm responding to Mrs. Dupont, who called me a few seconds ago. In the event of a systemic failure of a European country, it is entirely permissible for the French Republic to decide sovereignly not to apply the Dublin provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u87	Of course! That's what she does!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u88	This has already happened, and it is quite natural that this should be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u89	This has nothing to do with what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u90	The difficulty is that risky case law – I think I can legitimately say it in this forum – has come to hinder the Dublin system. I say it as I think it is: the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in March and the decision of the Court of Cassation which immediately followed it in September directly contradict the will of the democratic authorities who designed the Dublin system. I do not want to be too technical – the discussion of the articles will allow us to enter into the details – but it would not have been extremely complicated, for a French or European supreme judge, to consider that the notion of risk of flight was already defined in French law. We had done so with regard to the obligations to leave French territory, and a somewhat constructive reading – pardon, Mr Lagarde, to use this adjective – of the code of entry, residence and the right of asylum could perfectly have allowed the supreme courts to consider that we, the legislators, had carried out our transposition work by defining in the law what the notion of risk of flight represented in our eyes. This effort, which was not enormous, was not made by the supreme courts; it is therefore our task to assume our task as legislator and to explain to the courts what we mean by the risk of flight. This is what this useful bill, which is well-read and even well-written by the best experts on these issues within the administration, will do in order to correct the effects of these case law. Mr rapporteur, I thought I heard just now that you thought you belonged to the majority. It's a new element...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u91	Oh, no, not for my constituents!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u92	...but maybe I'm going astray. Let us not be mistaken: the necessary transformation of the asylum system remains to be conceived. In order to safeguard the principle of asylum for political refugees, it is essential that we be able, in the coming months and years, to reinvent a system of effective expulsion of foreign nationals who do not have the right to remain in France. It is not one without the other, it must be one with the other: if we really want to safeguard the asylum system, we must, at the same time, have a system of effective expulsion of foreign nationals from which it is now proven that they do not have the right to stay in France. I will make proposals to this end in the coming weeks, as part of the fact-finding mission set up by our Committee on Laws, of which Jean-Michel Clément and I are the co-rapporteurs. In this way, the National Assembly will be able to work ahead of the bill prepared by the Government, and we will have as much informed debate as possible. I deeply believe that we are at the end of a legal and administrative cycle. Moreover, in order to be convinced of this, it is sufficient to consult the Legislative Portal and to observe the evolution of these texts over the years, the increasing legal complexity and the lacise of constraints in which the legislator has confined the agents of the prefectures as well as the judicial and administrative courts. In order for France to really have the right to choose who it welcomes to its territory, a transformation will have to be carried out – it seems to me that this word is often mentioned – well beyond the few ad hoc adjustments that we are dealing with this night.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u93	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u94	Mr President, the Minister of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Dublin III regulation will soon have no secret for you: after all these presentations, as brilliant as each other, this technique will be quite familiar to you. But to give our opinion, we have to go back to that mechanism. The purpose of the Regulation is therefore to determine the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person. The need for effective implementation of this regulation has been reinforced by the migration crisis in Europe since 2015. According to the Ministry of the Interior, more than one in two persons applying for asylum in France may be subject to the Dublin procedure, either because, by applying the criteria laid down in the Regulation, another Member State is responsible for examining their application or because it has already been rejected from a first application in another Member State. Administrative detention with a view to ensuring that the person of the alien is insured may be necessary in order to ensure that he/she is transferred to the Member State responsible for examining the asylum application. Section 28 of the Regulations requires that the applicant present a significant risk of leakage. Moreover, according to Article 2 of the Regulation, this risk must be based on objective criteria laid down by law. I don't know if our supreme European and French courts have made "dangerous" decisions, Mr Larrivée. In any case, it was appropriate for us to refer to it. During 2017, both the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Cassation highlighted a gap in French legislation on the notion of a significant risk of flight, which creates a real breach in our asylum law. In the current state of our legislation, no foreigner may be placed in administrative detention under a transfer procedure. The sole purpose of this bill is to fill this gap by identifying the objective criteria required by the European regulation which constitute a significant risk of leakage. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of discussing today the regulation of migratory flows or the conditions for the reception and integration of foreigners on our soil.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u95	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u96	We will have the opportunity to review our asylum and immigration policy more broadly in the context of the bills that the Government will be presenting to us in the coming months. Mr Warsmann's proposal for a law seems to us to be timely, relevant and well-targeted from the outset. It has been clarified and improved by the work carried out in committee. The text before us today strikes a fair balance between, on the one hand, the protection of refugees, to which France remains unwaveringly committed, and, on the other hand, the need for the effective implementation of the Dublin agreements. As far as we are concerned, however, we express a reservation concerning the drafting of Article 1 bis, added in committee, which risks going against the original objective of the bill and depriving it of a large part of its scope. Article 28 of the Dublin Regulation provides that Member States may not detain a person solely on the ground that he or she is the subject of a procedure laid down in that text. This means that an alien who may be transferred to another Member State for examination of his application for asylum cannot, on this sole criterion, be subject to administrative detention – this is quite normal. But this does not mean that an alien who makes an initial application for asylum in France cannot under any circumstances be regarded as presenting a significant risk of flight, as proposed in Article 1a of the text which we are debating today. In other words, an alien who has falsified his or her identity documents, who has been refused asylum in another Member State or who has evaded a measure of expulsion cannot, in our view, be exempted from any administrative detention on the sole ground that he or she is applying for asylum in our territory. Article 1a of the draft law does not transpose Article 28 of the Dublin Regulation; In our view, it adds conditions that are not included in it. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the REM and UAI groups]] With this reservation, it is true, my group believes that the provisions of this bill will allow for a better application of the European asylum system and are therefore justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u97	Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u98	Mr President, the Minister of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the enormous migration challenge facing France, and with it Europe, is increasingly undermining our ability to protect those who need it. Yet the right to asylum is deeply embedded in the history of our country. France has always carried it very high, in a tradition of welcoming and integrating men, women and children who are at risk in their own country. This is still the spirit of our Republican pact today. A few months ago, the President of the Republic reiterated his desire to welcome and host "all those who are forced to occupy the street". To do so, we will have to undertake "a complete overhaul of our asylum and immigration policy". We are aware of the main spin-offs of the current system, two of which seem to me to be of particular concern: firstly, the extension of processing times for asylum applications, which is detrimental to those who, having fled danger, are entitled to a rapid response to their request; Secondly, the effective integration of persons into refugee status, so that they become full citizens. In this regard, I am pleased that a parliamentary mission has been launched – it will soon deliver its conclusions. My conviction is that we will have to be rigorous, welcome those who need it, but be vigilant about other forms of immigration. It also means – and this is an essential point – that we must ensure that the problem of refugees is distinguished from that of irregular immigration. The success of this future policy will necessarily require an asylum organisation at European level. One of the important texts in this area is the Dublin Regulation, which we are interested in this evening and which concerns asylum seekers whose application was rejected for the first time by a neighbouring country. The Regulation lays down the principle that only one Member State is competent to examine an application for asylum. Once that State has been identified, the Regulation defines the procedures for taking care of the asylum-seeker. In practice, the effectiveness of the transfer procedures is rather limited, in particular due to leaks: in 2016, of the 14308 foreigners under the Dublin procedure, only 1293 were transferred. It is this risk of flight that explains why States can resort to deprivation of liberty. The latter, however, is a measure infringing fundamental rights, and it is strictly regulated and, although it is directly applicable in our law, it requires legal adaptations. Thus, retention is only possible when there is a significant risk of leakage. It is the scope of two recent judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Cassation that have held that, in the absence of a general provision establishing in domestic law objective criteria for the risk of a significant flight, an asylum-seeker cannot be deprived of liberty on this basis. The purpose of the bill we are considering tonight is to remedy these shortcomings, while respecting fundamental freedoms. In this respect, I would like to welcome the careful and constructive work done with the rapporteur. To reconcile the right to freedom and the effectiveness of the Dublin procedure, which is a European commitment, we have managed to improve the text. Article 1 first recalls that detention is an exception: it is possible only on the basis of an individual assessment, if it is proportional and if other less coercive measures cannot be effectively applied. The same article then clearly and objectively defines the criteria for a significant risk of leakage. These criteria have been refined in the law commission: they are no longer modelled on the case of foreigners in an irregular situation, which makes it possible, in practice, to avoid the systematic detention of the asylum-seeker. Article 1 also introduces, for operational reasons, the possibility of detaining the alien at the beginning of the procedure for determining the State responsible for examining the application. With an amendment by the Chair of the Law Committee, the text now explicitly states, in its Article 1 bis, that the mere fact of filing an asylum application cannot lead to the presumption of a risk of flight from the applicant. Finally, the majority will propose to the discussion an amendment specifically concerning vulnerable people – pregnant women, minors, sick and disabled people – in order to ensure that the administration takes into account the most fragile situation at the time of the detention decision. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on a few benches of the UAI group]] As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, we are opening this evening the debate in this Parliament on the subject of immigration and asylum, with a view to a much more comprehensive bill scheduled for 2018. Our debates must, in due course, be worthy and soothed so as not to make this subject a red cloth. We will have to work on a precise and stable legislative framework, to reconnect with the history of France and to give to all those who are forced to flee because of their beliefs, opinions or sexual orientation, to all those who are victims of barbarism or injustice, a refuge in the territory of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u99	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u100	Mr President, the Minister of State, the rapporteur, here is a text that attempts to answer a technical question in a technical way – but not only. It is a merit that must be recognized, and which I readily recognize. The Court of Cassation, based on a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, held that French law did not set out the objective criteria for assessing the risk of flight abroad of an asylum-seeker undergoing a transfer procedure. So we're being asked to do something about it. All right: ensuring that certain decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union do not complicate the necessary and compulsory fight against people who want to play with the rules that must be respected when applying for refugee status is, of course, a good thing, which I obviously approve. It is therefore a matter of setting a framework that secures our detention procedures, and this is "in accordance with European Union law", as the explanatory memorandum to the draft law states. It is on this last point that I would like to stress: once again, we see that decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as in fact decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, come to counteract or at least complicate the task of our judges and police officers. I will be told that it is enough to comply: that is what we are about to do again. In concrete terms, this means that in the area of asylum – as in the case of immigration, and even if I do not confuse each other – we are no longer free to choose. We are bound feet and fists, under the inquisitorial gaze of jurists who decide in our place. To put it bluntly, it is no longer we who make the law and decide with complete independence and sovereignty, but an aceopage of judges to whom, government after government, we have given an exorbitant power. I have spent ten years in my life defending human rights around the world on behalf of an international non-governmental organization, the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues. I am deeply committed to the right of asylum, which is not only a legal but also a moral obligation, and is the grandeur of a democracy. France has always opened its doors to the persecuted, to those who are hunted for their ideas, for their convictions or for their religion, and it must continue to do so – but to do so as it pleases. France, in this area as in others, must not entrust to others what is a matter of essential choices, political in the true sense of the word – vital, even. This is all the more necessary since the "migration crisis", as it is impotently called the flows of immigrants who try, by all means and at the risk of their lives, to enter Europe, has shown that, behind the asylum seeker, often hides an economic immigrant, and sometimes even a terrorist.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u101	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u102	If I am not one of those who plead for an exit from Europe, because it is our history and it would not make sense, I do not want to resign myself to seeing our country at the orders of European courts. It is up to the French political leaders to decide for France, not for judges sitting in Strasbourg or Luxembourg. May I remind you that some of the countries of the Union, like ours, have signed the European Convention on Human Rights, but with reservations about certain articles – let alone the protocols – and that they are not less European than we are? France, on the other hand, did not, or only at the margin. We were wrong. Perhaps one day it will have to be remedied. I will vote for this bill, because it is necessary for us to avoid the flight abroad of people who have already rejected their asylum application in another European state, but let us stop abandoning our prerogatives as sovereign states. It is up to the French people to decide their policy and it is up to us, the legislator, to ensure that this is the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u103	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u104	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us today is, as has already been said, a technical text that fills a legal gap highlighted by the Court of Cassation in its judgment of 27 September last concerning the conditions for the detention of asylum seekers to whom the procedure of the Dublin III European Regulation applies. This text contains all the complexities of interlocking different standards under separate systems – the national system and the European system – but related, in that they pursue the same objective: fair and effective processing of asylum applications within the European Union. It is in this way that this technical text becomes eminently political: how can we ignore the major phenomenon of the beginning of the twenty-first century that is the great migration crisis in which humanitarian disasters, security risks and populist fantasies are crystallized? We reject the cleavage of discourses that propose a mortiferous choice between totalitarian humanity and divided humanity. We are regularly reminded of the reality of our world by unbearable images that invite us to a humanization of our right, while taking into account our ability to receive those in need with dignity. As early as June 2017, the President of the Republic had called for "the greatest humanity" in the management of the situation of migrants and asylum seekers and assured that reform of the right of asylum was among the "priorities of government work". France has always been a host country that protects those who suffer. We will never deny this vocation. It is in this legacy that the measures we are voting on here must be included. On the basis of this observation, the Republic on the move has endeavoured to accompany the structure of the text along three lines: to empower the actors, to guarantee fundamental rights and to ensure the effectiveness of the European asylum system, which is the subject of new negotiations. Pending the outcome of these negotiations, we must deal with the movements of asylum seekers within the European Union. Between 2012 and 2017, the number of asylum seekers in Germany increased from 700,000 to 770,000, of which 300,000 were rejected. These persons may be tempted to file a new application in France. In this case, the Dublin Regulation requires us to transfer them to the State responsible for examining their application. To ensure the transfer, the current law provides for the possibility of house arrest or detention if there is a risk of escape, without, however, defining that risk. It was on this point, Mrs Ménard, that the Court of Cassation came to ask the French legislator for a legal clarification. The Dublin Regulation requires the characterisation of a "significant risk of flight" to justify the detention of an asylum-seeker, then referred to as "dublinated". The bill before us is therefore intended to fill the current legal vacuum and we congratulate the rapporteur for the work he has done, in a clarification approach. In this regard, the La République en marche group wished to contribute to this effort to clarify the law by providing some clarification on the definition of the said criteria for detention. We have made a particular effort to distinguish between the administrative detention regime applicable to an asylum-seeker and that applicable to an irregular immigrant. We know the path of asylum seekers. They have sometimes deceived death and carried out their journey in inhumane conditions, with the conviction that we will live up to our humanistic claims. We cannot therefore answer them with simple operational imperatives: we must do so with the humanity that we all share, regardless of the final response that will be given to their request. Thus, we have collectively integrated the specific guarantees provided by the Geneva Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as the requirements of the European Union's Home and Procedures Directives. In particular, we have added the notions of individualisation, proportionality and systemic failure of a State, and I will invite you to add those of vulnerability and good information to the asylum seeker. This balancing exercise aimed at preserving fundamental rights and freedoms in the face of a real issue of operational efficiency is the result of a co-construction between the various actors gathered in this Assembly this evening. Minister of State, we wish to continue this momentum in future texts. Indeed, we are all willing to work in good intelligence, relying on numerical material elements such as an impact assessment. In particular, in recent days we have exchanged a great deal on addressing vulnerability, and Parliament stands ready to pursue this issue further in the context of the upcoming bills announced. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] This text is complex, as we have seen, but it has a political dimension and a European horizon. That is why the La République en marche group will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u105	Mr Florent Boudié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u106	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, driven by the Afghan, Iraqi and Syrian conflicts, by the unrest in Eritrea, Somalia or Sudan, whole families, isolated adults, unaccompanied minors flee their country of origin to reach our continent. Contrary to the image built in the collective imagination, contrary to the ideas spread by populist currents, Europe is far from being the continent most exposed to migratory flows. In 2015, UNHCR had 65 million internally displaced persons worldwide and 70 million in 2016, figures that had never been reached since the establishment of the Office in 1950. Turkey welcomed 2.5 million people in 2015; 1.6 million were received in Pakistan; 850,000 in Iran; 650,000 in Jordan. While 86 per cent of UNHCR IDPs reach a low- and middle-income country, 9 per cent are accommodated in Germany, China, the United States, France, Japan and the United Kingdom, i.e. in the richest countries. Moreover, this migration crisis, of unprecedented magnitude since the Second World War, is not cyclical: it is structural because it is underpinned by geopolitical issues, the consequences of armed conflict and trafficking in human beings. It is a new chapter in world history that opens: it is a civilization issue to which neither France nor Europe were prepared. The urgency is there, at the level of Europe and even the world – the urgency to act quickly and to do the best. The influx of migrants gives rise to the concern of our fellow citizens and the questioning of politicians, beyond any partisan divide. The path is narrow between, on the one hand, those who want to raise walls and barriers, pretending to ignore the fact that no border is insurmountable for the desperate – they no longer fear anything because they have already suffered the worst – and, on the other, those who plead for the ideal of welcoming refugees without limitation, who would not fail to destabilize our societies and our democracies. The path is narrow and the border between respect for the right of asylum, the protection it requires from a country like France, and the need to remove those who do not fear for their lives, who do not fear for their opinions, who do not fear for their beliefs; those who do not face the actual threat of organised States or groups and who, denied asylum by one of the Member States of the European Union, under the Dublin Regulation, must be transferred to the country of first arrival before being returned to their country of origin. The path is narrow and it involves reconciling seemingly contradictory imperatives: firmness on the one hand, solidarity on the other. But this path exists and it is that of France. In accordance with its international and European commitments, France has assumed its share of responsibilities. In recent years, the number of places in reception centres for asylum seekers has been doubled. With the help of local authorities, more than 400 reception and referral centres have been opened to ensure effective access to refugee asylum in Calais and Paris. The human and material resources of the asylum and immigration authorities have been increased. New legislation has been introduced to reduce the processing time of asylum seekers. The 2018 Finance Act has maintained and even increased these efforts. The text presented by our colleague Jean-Luc Warsmann, enriched by the proposals of the majority, draws the combined lessons from the jurisprudence of the Council of State and the Court of Cassation in order to secure the removal of the rejected from the right of asylum. But the migration background blade is not close to stopping. That is why, as you said, Minister of State, the bill we are considering is only a first step and many more will be needed to strengthen the French asylum system. The associations which manage the reception platforms for asylum seekers – the PADAs – and the reception centres for asylum seekers – the CADAs –, the officials of the border police, the agents of the prefectures, the magistrates of the administrative and judicial order, all express this: the French asylum system is now saturated and outdated, even though our country counted 85,000 asylum applications last year, against 772000 in Germany and 121000 in Italy. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] Beyond the text before us this evening, it is therefore the whole asylum chain that deserves to be re-examined and adapted, first of all at the level of the European Union – this is where the main challenge lies – but also within the framework of the future bill that the President of the Republic and yourself, Mr. Minister of State, will propose to our debates next spring with a double objective: to increase efficiency in reaching the six months of processing asylum applications, but also to gain in humanity, capacity for reception and, ultimately, capacity for integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u107	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u108	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u109	Mr President, the Minister of State, the rapporteur, the principle of asylum and the rights of refugees have been forged in the dark hours of human history. In France, the preamble to the 1946 Constitution made it clear: "Every man persecuted for his work in favour of freedom has the right to asylum in the territories of the Republic. » In public international law, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights lays down the first definition of refugee in article 14: "In the face of persecution, everyone has the right to seek asylum and to enjoy asylum in other countries. This definition is supplemented by the 1951 Geneva Convention, which stipulates that any person who, "due to events which occurred before 1 January 1951 and who is reasonably fearful of being persecuted because of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a certain social group or political opinion, is outside the country of which he is a national and who cannot or, as a result of that fear, does not want to claim the protection of that country". These texts constitute progressive progress, which has been forced by tragic events. With this bill, the will is not to reduce the existence of the dramatic causes that cause the displacement of several thousand people: the aim of this bill is unfortunately to reduce the scope of asylum. This text goes against the meaning of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u110	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u111	However, we wish to live up to the principles which, for more than fifty years, have irrigated our policy of welcoming people into exile. That is why – I will not surprise you – we are absolutely, resolutely and definitively against this text. There are two main reasons for this motion of rejection. On the one hand, the proposal for a law "allowing a proper application of the European asylum system" actually goes beyond European recommendations and forms part of a resolutely secure, inappropriate movement when we talk about lives and human suffering. On the other hand, the European recommendations do not suit us: we should instead engage in a balance of forces within the Union in order to revise the security directives and regulations that bind us in the field of foreign and foreign law. From our point of view – and we are not the only ones to think so – this bill constitutes a systematization of confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u112	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u113	The political justification of this law purports to derive the consequences of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 15 March 2017 requiring States to "set out, in a binding declaration of general scope, the objective criteria on which grounds are based for fear of the applicant's flight". The Court had held that "the absence of such a provision results in the inapplicability" of the detention. This judgment is based on the principle set out in Article 6 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union: "Everyone has the right to liberty and security. Taking the consequences of this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and repeating its formulation almost at the very end of the day, the Court of Cassation, on 27 September 2017, called on the legislator to intervene to define what the risk of flight was: this is where we are. From our point of view, this text takes advantage of the breach opened by the courts to go beyond the mission they have given us. If adopted, we will not only define the notion of the risk of flight, so as to be able to place people in detention, but we will systematize, in particular by Article 2, the confinement of asylum seekers. In this bill, confinement becomes the rule and freedom is transformed into an exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u114	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u115	To sum up your proposal for a law, Mr rapporteur, you said last week: "Is the question being asked that this possibility of detention should be possible from the beginning of the procedure? We think so. Again, I am certainly not going to surprise you by telling you that we, in La France insoumée, believe that we do not. At present, when France wishes to send back a person subject to the Dublin Convention, it must first ask the European State which has registered its fingerprints if the latter accepts his readmission; If so, she may proceed with the transfer. Until now, French law allows detention only after the transfer decision. If the bill is passed, detention will be possible at the beginning of the procedure. At this moment in my presentation, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express to you our astonishment, at least, that this provision does not affect your sense of justice any more than that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u116	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u117	We are in the process of discussing a text submitted to the vote of the national representative, which will make it possible for people to be locked up without any reason other than the fact that they come to apply for asylum. Really, it should all seriously challenge us and make us think twice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u118	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u119	The main actors and actors involved in helping migrants reminded Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday, 29 November, of the principle of unconditional acceptance of their action, in contrast to the control and supervision they fear of the rise of power through legislation such as the one before us today. In an open letter to the Head of State, twenty-two associations, including the Fondation Abbé Pierre, Emmaus, the Secours catholique, the SAMU social de Paris and Médecins du monde affirm: "The foundation of our missions is based on the principle of unconditional reception which provides that everyone in distress present in the territory has the right to accommodation and accompaniment", regardless of their administrative status. In this way, they wished to express their "serious concern at the evolution of the reception of foreigners" and "the role attributed to associations in the orientation of these audiences". "This new logic would extend in an unprecedented and disproportionate way the confinement of persons in Dublin proceedings," CIMADE said in a statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u120	This is what civil society is so dear to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u121	Currently, detention, which takes place only between the decision on the transfer of persons and the actual transfer, concerns just over one in two cases. Only 56 per cent of States agreed to the removal of an asylum-seeker. You are therefore taking a security turn and go far beyond the case of the small number of persons initially affected by the judgments of the Court of Cassation and the Court of Justice of the European Union, i.e. the persons subject to the Dublin procedure and, among them, those who have been the subject of a transfer decision. This change of perspective is of great concern to us – and not only to us, as you have seen with the inquiry of human rights associations – about the Government's future plans on the law of foreigners, which we will have the opportunity to discuss in this Assembly. Our second concern concerns European law. It is European law that shows shortcomings; Rather, it should be reformed in an opposite direction to the one you borrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u123	We have a duty to observe the exhaustion of the European asylum system. Today, European states are managing flows and many cannot assume their responsibilities in considering an asylum application. Evidence of this is the very worrying situation in Hungary, denounced by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which calls for the suspension of any return of asylum-seekers to Hungary. Italy has many systemic shortcomings: it can take several months between the filing of the asylum application and its formal registration. The reception centres for asylum seekers have only 2000 places; Since the beginning of 2017, more than 10,000 migrants have arrived in Italy. In Greece, this year again, cases of torture and ill-treatment have been reported, with conditions of detention appearing to be of particular concern. The European Court of Human Rights concluded that Greece had violated the European Convention on Human Rights because of poor conditions of detention or even the absence of effective remedies against these poor conditions, in nine cases involving persons detained in Larissa, Salonique, Trikala and Komotini. In France, with regard to funding, this proposal poses an obvious risk of under-budgeting. Indeed, while asylum applications are expected to increase by 10% in 2018, the budget of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission increases by only 6.2% between 2017 and 2018. We have had this debate during the examination of the budget and have still not received an answer to this inquiry which, for us, marks the inseverity of part of this budget. Increases in staff are clearly insufficient. Overall, the lack of resources is clear. More generally, from a purely pragmatic and realistic point of view, it is pointless to tighten the framework as you propose, Mr rapporteur, while only 6% of the Dublin procedures are completed. European law must therefore be reformed. We have been questioned, as I imagine you have been, ladies and gentlemen, by many citizens who volunteered in daily solidarity with migrants, and whose action I would like to pay tribute to our country. These people reminded us in particular of the remarks made by candidate Emmanuel Macron in January 2017 about the Dublin agreements: "We must improve them, because they have perverse effects. I am in favour of a reform that will allow [...] true European coordination". These committed citizens have greatly displeased, particularly when reading this bill, with regard to President Macron's intentions. European law is not designed to deal with the types of migration that we will have to manage, internationally, in the future. As things stand, however, we need to think about a way, not to park people like animals, but to welcome them with dignity. Between 2015 and 2016, the Ministry of the Interior noted a 7.1% increase in asylum seekers. Given the international situation we are experiencing, the ravages of climate change, the increase in inequality and the impoverishment of entire populations as a result of neoliberal globalization, situations of war and conflict that are raging all over the world, these demands will not be exhausted. However, we would have the means to receive these people who are fleeing dramatic situations with dignity, because media and political treatment tend to convey an erroneous perception of migratory phenomena: not only are the countries of the South hosting most of these populations, but in addition, according to the National Institute for Demographic Studies, it is only between one and two people per 1,000 inhabitants who arrive in France each year. So why choose to spend millions of euros each year in establishing security and death policies? Yes, mortalities, because since the early 2000s at least 35,000 people have died trying to reach Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u124	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u125	In 2016 alone, there were 5,000 deaths in the Mediterranean Sea, now transformed into a huge marine cemetery. In Libya, a partner of the European Union to keep Europe's southern border, migrants are being enslaved. Today, in 2017, by these policies which make Europe an anti-migrant fortress, by the delegation of the management of the flows of migrants and migrants, as if it were a vile activity that we wished to delegate without further ensuring that all safeguards were laid down, the European Union bears a share of responsibility, even indirect, in the serfdom of human beings. Amnesty International denounced this in a recent press release on the subject. The bill that you are submitting to us today, rapporteur, resonates for us as a bad tocsin, since it makes the safe and secure management of the flow of arrivals the two foundations of the asylum policy that you wish to lead.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u126	That's incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u127	Finally, I would like to remind you of the words of the preamble to the 1951 Geneva Convention: "The United Nations has, on several occasions, expressed its deep concern for the refugees and [...] has been concerned to ensure that they enjoy the widest possible enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms". [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We would very much like France, and national representation through this debate, to honour this international commitment and to show solidarity and humanity. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u128	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u129	We are all extremely faithful to the Geneva Convention. I was not at all convinced by Mrs Obono's argument. I call on the House to reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u130	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u131	In his speech, Mr Bernalicis asked the rapporteur why he proposed such a text, which benefits the majority, although he is not a member of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u132	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u133	As far as I'm concerned, I've never reasoned that way. I have always looked for what was good for France, and I think this text is good for France because it allows us to solve certain problems. These problems, as we said earlier, were not directly addressed to us: the rapporteur indicated that they had been addressed to the Czech Republic. This is the way in which refugees are detained in order to prevent a significant risk of flight, and we have been asked to define this concept in our national legislation. Let us go back to the text – we will have the opportunity, in a few minutes, to examine it in detail – rather than embark on considerations that go beyond it. We have drafted it with great caution: the foreigner "can only be held in detention to prevent a significant risk of escape", on the basis of an individual assessment – an amendment by the commission will add "taking into account the person's state of vulnerability" – and only if the detention is proportional and if the provisions of the same article, i.e. being placed under house arrest, cannot be effectively applied. We therefore limit this placement very much and with many precautions. The "significant risk of flight", as I recall, is considered to be established in the following cases: "If the alien has previously evaded, in another Member State, the determination of the responsible State, from the examination of his application for asylum". Who can be against it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u134	We!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u135	"If the alien has been rejected from his application for asylum in the Member State responsible". The whole Schengen system and movement within Europe would fall if we did not mention it. "If the alien is again present on French territory after the actual execution of a transfer measure". Today, some people are transferred and return after two days. Who could be against putting an end to these returns? "If the alien has evaded the execution of an earlier removal order". Who can be against it? "If the alien, for the purpose of maintaining himself in French territory, has forged, falsified or established under a name other than his own a residence permit or an identity or travel document". Alias, does that remind you of anything, Mr. Bernalicis? I could quote all the terms of this text. No one can say that what we are proposing is an attack on freedoms. On the contrary, it is because we propose these provisions that we can secure the demand of those who need our protection, victims of persecution in the theatres of war, who must be able to move away from it. Mrs Obono, I have received last month the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. France has offered to receive 10,000 refugees, including 3,000 from the sub-Saharan region, where the difficulties are great,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u136	It's normal: we've helped a little to destabilize this region, haven't we?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u137	...and 7,000 from the Irako-Syrian area and neighbouring countries. Yes, we want to marry generosity and responsibility. Without responsibility, there is no generosity. I would never want to add misery to misery and make some people who have been smuggled by smugglers believe that here, Eldorado, can live in our country a life of misery that makes them regret their departure from their country of origin. [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and UAI groups]] Together with the President of the Republic, on our trip to Africa, we said that the only answer was to commit ourselves to the development of African countries, so that these young people could find a future there.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u138	We come to the explanations of vote. The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u139	Minister of State, just a short time ago, we were debating the bill to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism. You were as inflamed as you were tonight, saying that the article on security perimeters guaranteed individual freedoms, that everything was provided for in the text, that everything was well tied, and that there was nothing to say about it. Lack of luck, the Constitutional Council, seized by the League of Human Rights, declared the article unconstitutional on the grounds that it does not sufficiently guarantee individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u140	That's not true at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u141	It would be a shame if the same fate were reserved for this bill. On the merits, you have listed certain elements relating to administrative detention, as mentioned in Article 1, and the significant risk of leakage. "Who can be against it? "It's time to look at each of the cases we've been considering. Well, us! We are, in particular in the first case: the "significant risk of leakage may, except in special circumstances, be considered as established" if "the alien has previously evaded, in another Member State, the determination of the State responsible for examining his application for asylum". Is it not the very principle of a "dublinate", that is, of a person who has started his approach elsewhere, who arrives in France by having de facto evaded the determination of the State responsible for examining his application for asylum? You therefore propose, Mr rapporteur, that this person be automatically detained. You can dress this up with as many legal guarantees as you want, the bottom of the case is that it will be placed in an administrative detention centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u142	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u143	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u144	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u145	On this infinitely serious subject, the group The Republic on the march does not want to fall into outrages or postures and, thus, to play with the misery of men.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u146	It's the famous ni-ni!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u147	We will not participate in the traditional theatre, which condemns us to excess, on the one hand or on the other, thus to immobilism. You don't build a country on good feelings. It is not built either in the rejection of the other, hatred and violence. France has a duty to protect and welcome those who seek asylum, because their lives are in danger in the countries from which they come. This is the meaning of the Geneva Convention, which aims to ensure that no one will be returned where he or she risks persecution again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u148	Like in northern Iraq!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u149	This convention, to which we are just as attached as you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u150	That's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u151	... is also the one on which the European asylum system is based, of which the Dublin Regulation is one of the texts, which you seem to forget, Mr Bernalicis. So it is a lie to pretend that we would be here in arbitrariness. The Dublin Regulation guarantees an alien the examination of his or her asylum application by a country of the Union, and prevents several States from being sought, in order to circumvent the rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u152	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u153	However, in the first half of 2017, asylum applications made by foreigners who had already lodged one or even by persons who had been denied asylum by another EU country increased by more than 176 %. In this difficult context, the services of the State, whose work I would like to pay tribute to,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u154	In Lyon, we didn't salute their work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u155	...require to implement transfer procedures: only 9% of foreigners under Dublin procedure are actually transferred. Half of them are held in custody. However, two recent court decisions have found these measures inapplicable, on the grounds that our law did not define the objective criterion of a significant risk of escape. The IUD, Action and Independent Group has shown in proposing this text that it has understood the urgency of filling this legal vacuum,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u156	You can actually thank them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u157	... as we are encouraged by the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u158	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u159	The group La République en marche will therefore take on its responsibilities, Mr Bernalicis, and, without abandoning its ideal of a generous France, it will be able to take account of the realities and face them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u160	You're not to a contradiction!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u161	[[Applause on several benches in the REM group and on a few benches in the UAI group]] We will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u162	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u163	Mr President, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that I am witnessing a sad hypocrisy. I remember, indeed, the emotion that had seized all the parliamentary groups after the broadcast of the report by the American channel CNN showing the world the enslavement, in Libya, of refugees from Africa. I also remember images that had upset our country and that, I am convinced, had upset all of us as well: those of people who, simply seeking to escape war and misery, had died in the Mediterranean. The refugees – I hope we will agree on this – are not goods. This human feeling of horror that is inspired by the reality that they live, we must succeed in translating it into actions that are consistent with our duty to humanity. Although I have heard, including from the President of the Republic, speeches with empathy towards refugees, the Government is about to support a text which, under the guise of enabling the proper application of the European asylum system, will make it even more difficult for people under this right in our territory, in violation of the 1951 Geneva Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u164	That's incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u165	The proposal for a law that we are considering today tends to tighten the reception conditions for Dublin refugees, making their detention in detention almost systematic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u166	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u167	That's incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u168	This project reverses the current logic of detention in administrative detention centres in our country. The aim was to allow the administration to organise expulsion to the country of origin or readmission to a European country, particularly for persons in Dublin proceedings, whose application for asylum falls within the competence of another State. Today's bill completely upsets this logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u169	It's a bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u170	A proposal that you will therefore reject, and I welcome it – but, at this stage, it is not won.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u171	That's incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u172	The confinement you're proposing will be preventive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u173	That's incorrect! A repeated lie is a lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u174	In other words, prefectures will be able to detain people who are not the subject of a deportation order for time to examine their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u175	It's a counter-truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u176	That is what is proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u177	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u178	People will be deprived of their liberty only to determine the European State responsible for their asylum application: European indigences are being paid to refugees, that is the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u179	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, You didn't read the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u180	We are in reality faced with a crafted text, written in a hurry,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u181	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u182	... with the encouragement of the Ministry of the Interior, to fill a legal vacuum.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u183	All this is incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u184	Mr. Warsmann, do the same as Solère: join La République en marche! It'll be easier!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u185	Since 27 September, the "dublinés" were no longer to be placed in detention centres. In question, according to the Court of Cassation, the vagueness in the law around the notion of "obvious risk of flight" – which was the reason invoked to deprive them of liberty. The new definition now faces the requirement of the Constitutional Council, which allows the detention of an alien only for the time strictly necessary for his departure. Tomorrow, for example, it will be enough to have been rejected from asylum in another country to be placed in a detention centre. That is the truth; We will not stop repeating it. This bill responds to the wishes of the President of the Republic, who said that "we are driving too little" back to the border. The objective is therefore clear: more control and more expulsions. By voting on this text, you are going to strike an unprecedented blow to the rights of foreigners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u186	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u187	Worse still, your text is only a first step in the major deconstruction of existing standards. The countries of the European Union are in the process of negotiating within the European Council a common procedure for international protection. This technocratic name, as the European Union has the secret, hides nothing less than an externalisation of European borders outside the Union. Applications for asylum of persons who have transited through third countries which are considered safe will be considered inadmissible. These persons will thus be returned without their application being processed by the country concerned. This would be tantamount to generalising the agreement reached in March 2016 with Turkey, through which the European Union entrusted Turkey with the management of Syrian refugees. A year later, Europe considered such an agreement to be a success, since it had made it possible to close the road for migrants, as evidenced by the drop in the number of crossings. To believe that we are deaf, indifferent, powerless in the face of the consequences of this provision for asylum seekers, abandoned to their fate when they are victims of very dramatic situations. Tomorrow, a country can be considered safe even if certain territories are at war or some populations are threatened.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u189	Many countries would be affected by such a broad definition: Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, as well as Niger, Sudan and Libya.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u190	Can we go back to the bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u191	Yes, Libya, the day a territory is no longer at war. Europe, outraged by the plight of migrants in Libya, is in fact accounting for thousands of deaths, in short boats or on the Balkan road, which will forever tarray our consciences. The European Union has embarked on a policy of containment, down from the humanistic values that should enliven it, and the Government, which will present in 2018 a draft law allowing the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – OFPRA – to refuse asylum to an applicant for the same reasons, walking in its footsteps. This is what you do: you follow this logic, which tends not to welcome, but to contain, so that you can combine an opening speech with practices that close the doors of our territory to refugees.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u192	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u193	I would remind you that between 1992 and 1996, the concept of a "safe third country" had been applied to allow the return of asylum seekers from Cameroon or Tanzania. Only a decision of the Council of State had brought an end to this unworthy policy, incompatible with the Geneva Convention and our Constitution. In fact, France cannot exempt itself from international treaties. However, to accept the paradigm shift in our reception policy to which the bill is directed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u194	That's incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u195	... it is simply – I repeat it and I assume it – trampling on the 1951 Geneva Convention,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u196	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u197	... which states that States are required to consider each asylum application submitted. Moreover, this great renunciation from the point of view of law has as a counterpart a minimum efficiency if we believe the figures – since, with you, that is often what this is about, since it almost always comes back to an accounting policy. There is no point in tightening the framework even though only 6% of the Dublin procedures are completed. In 2016, the overall rate of return of asylum seekers under Dublin procedure was 5%. The figures for 2017 show the same difficulty of application. In the first half of the year, the rate of return of asylum seekers under Dublin procedure was 5.8 per cent, even though the Government had almost tripled the number of procedures. If the rate of application remains unchanged, it is because the malfunctions are global: when Dublin procedures do not come to an end, this is due to material errors, poorly linked files, annulments by administrative judges, decisions on the advisability of not carrying out the transfer made by the Minister of the Interior or the prefects, or the lack of places in detention centres – in this area, the lack of resources is particularly obvious. In our view, the Government must first provide itself with the means to receive asylum-seekers with dignity. Applications are expected to increase by 10% in 2018. However, the budget of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission is up by only 6% between 2017 and 2018, or an additional €78 million. The increase in staff is just as inadequate: the OFPRA employment ceiling is raised by only 15 people, which is obviously too little given the issues I have mentioned. For us, another path, respecting our international commitments, is not only desirable, but possible. A Member of Parliament for the Republic on the move explained to us that we do not do politics with good feelings. In any case, I do not believe, for my part, that we make a good policy with bad feelings,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u199	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... and I am absolutely certain that, in this and in other areas, the question is not to distinguish good feelings, but to know whether social justice, the duty of humanity, human rights are, yes or no, the thread of public policies that we decide in this House. To take this other path, which I repeat, is possible, it is necessary to place at the heart of our policy the human dignity of refugees, their fundamental right to family life. Isolated minors must be accompanied and children placed in detention centres, even with their parents. Host camps must be built to international standards, along the lines of the Grande-Synthe camp, to offer refugees decent conditions, and reception centres for asylum-seekers to host them for the time that their application is being studied. In summary, we must reaffirm and promote the right of asylum in the territory of the Republic, which is enshrined by the Constitutional Council in a decision of 13 August 1993, according to which an alien claiming this right must be "authorized to remain temporarily in the territory until his or her application has been decided". Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law places France in a situation which seems untenable to us vis-à-vis its past international commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u200	That's completely incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u201	I therefore call on you to vote on this motion to refer the text back to committee, which will allow us to rethink it in depth. When you see the situation of these human beings fleeing war, the misery – which France has sometimes helped to cause – and death, I do not ask you to share our sense of revolt, but at least to indignant yourself to think better, and perhaps to remind you of a few moments of our history. Does everyone here remember that between 1936 and 1938 we were able to welcome hundreds of thousands of Spanish refugees, I say hundreds of thousands? What we were able to do then, why can't we do this today for people who are fleeing war and misery and who, at the risk of their lives, are trying to cross the Mediterranean under simply unbearable, unacceptable conditions? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let us be committed to just and humane policies. For our part, it is this France that we want to see continued, thanks to public policies that are commensurate with what has made our country great.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u202	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u203	This bill is in line with all of France's international commitments, the Geneva Convention,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u204	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u205	[[Applause on the benches of the UAI group and on several benches of the REM group]] ... the Dublin Regulation, which builds a European right of asylum, and it enables this right of asylum to be realized day after day, which should make France proud. I therefore call on you to reject this motion to refer it back to committee, and I very much regret the set of counter-truths, sometimes hurtful, pronounced by the speaker who defended it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u206	All you have to do is join La République en marche, like your colleague Solère!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u207	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u208	I am against this motion. I did not understand Mrs Autain's reasoning well. I had the impression that she blamed the Ministry of the Interior for its lack of effectiveness in implementing the removal decisions of the "dublinates" when she said that their implementation rate was only 5%. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and UAI groups]] If that is your opinion, Mrs. Autain, I am beating my octopus: perhaps, indeed, we have not done well; We'll try to be more effective... But I'm not sure it's exactly your wish. As for saying that the ideal thing to offer a refugee is to make him finish at Grande-Synthe... Excuse me, but my ideal is a little higher!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u209	In the explanations of vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee, Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor, in the case of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u210	We call for a vote in favour of the motion for referral to committee to give national representation the time to really reflect on the political signal that we are sending by examining and voting on such a text. As has been said, it is not a technical text intended to fill a legal gap; The texts debated in this House, whatever they may be, always have a political meaning, always define a certain direction. It seems to us – to our group as well as to several human rights associations, which are fighting for fundamental freedoms at the national and international levels – that the signal given by this bill is extremely negative and goes against what we should and could do for our country to shoulder its responsibilities. No, Minister of State – as you know, of course – we do not regret that there are no more evictions. We simply note that, in reality – we see the difference between political discourse and reality – the Dublin procedures are not effective, because they cannot be effective. To recognize this is not to want more expulsions, but to take on the task of promoting another policy at the French and European levels, and it seems to us that the adoption of this motion would give us the means to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We have another vision. You mentioned earlier the question of relations with the countries of the South, particularly in Africa. There was a need to change the overall policy, for example, to call into question economic partnership agreements that led to the exile of a number of migrants and migrants, and to pursue another policy of cooperation and conflict management. Adopting the motion to refer to committee would be a first step.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u211	On the motion for referral back to committee, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Elise Fajgeles, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u212	With this text, we are at the very heart of the balance to be struck for the effective protection of our asylum policy. Yes, foreigners present in our territory to ask for our protection must see their application and their administrative situation studied quickly, much more than today, and be, during this time, accommodated with dignity. Yes, we must give our protection to those fleeing war and persecution: we must accept them decently, humanly and better integrate them. This will be the subject of a bill in 2018. However, in order for this protection to be effective, it must be exercised in accordance with European texts and regulations. However, the Dublin III Regulation, which governs the right of asylum at European level, cannot effectively apply. With this bill, it is a matter of providing us with effective legislation to enforce it, by legally defining the significant risk of flight, in this characterized situation – that of the significant risk of flight, I repeat, and not for all asylum seekers "dublinated". People must be able to be detained once their application has been registered on EURODAC and the significant risk of leakage before their transfer can be characterized – I repeat again, because I have the impression that, on the side of La France insoumée, you have not heard it. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and UAI groups]] Defining the significant risk of leakage will make it possible to apply the Dublin III Regulation effectively and thus to respond to the very large presence in our territory of persons covered by this text. In the Paris region, this represents 75% of asylum seekers, with a clear impact on the functioning of OFII – the French Office for Immigration and Integration –, OFPRA and our entire asylum policy. It is because we need an effective and humane asylum policy – human because it is effective – that this legal definition, thus drafted, is necessary. The La République en marche group will therefore not vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u213	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Larrivé, for the Group of the Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u214	In your speech, Ms. Autain, you mentioned a decision of the Constitutional Council of August 1993. But the way you have presented it might suggest that the Constitution would oppose the application of the Dublin Regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u215	That'd be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u216	For the sake of the full clarity of our debates, it should be recalled that, for almost a quarter of a century, this has not been the case. After this decision of the Constitutional Council of August 1993, the Constituent, on the initiative of Prime Minister Édouard Balladur, had intervened to introduce, within the Constitution itself, Article 53(1), which provides: "The Republic may conclude agreements with European States which are bound by commitments identical to their own in the field of asylum and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, determining their respective competences for the examination of asylum applications submitted to them. » Also, I'm sorry to tell you, you're a little late! For a quarter of a century, the Constitution of the French Republic has made it possible to apply the Dublin provisions. Beyond that, there is a real question, that of the link between politics and law. For my part, I agree with the thesis of Dean Georges Vedel that it is not the constitutional judge who must make the Constitution, but the constituent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u217	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u218	Similarly, this evening it is the legislator who must make the law, and not a judgment of the CJEU or the Court of Cassation: it is up to us to tell which law we want to see applied in the territory of the French Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u219	And that's why we're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u220	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u221	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u222	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 38, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u223	This is indeed an amendment to delete the article. As we have explained in committee, we want to rule on this matter as part of the bill that will be introduced next March. It would be more appropriate to wait for this moment to better reflect on the guarantees and protections to be granted to refugees affected by secondary movements in our territory, but also to find a better compromise in order to guarantee the rights of asylum-seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u224	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u225	We have already exchanged views on this subject. The committee's opinion and obviously unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u226	You're always so loquacious!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u228	Same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u229	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u230	I support this amendment, and the Group of the European People's Party will vote for it. We have already had the debate, but only in committee. That is a shame because many of our colleagues have not been able to take advantage of it. Moreover, the quality of the debate in committee has not been optimal: amendments arriving the day before at 20.00 and discovered the same morning; other amendments which fall and which we cannot defend;...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u231	That's what parliamentary work is all about.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u232	... lack of answers from the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u233	Our colleague will vote for the revision of the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u234	So it might be interesting to have now the debate that we haven't really had yet.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u235	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u236	Article 1, in my view, is inconsistent. How is it that a foreigner who is recognized as being in an irregular situation in the national territory and subject to a sentence of house arrest is finally allowed to move freely? If I believe the text we are discussing, reference must be made to the eleven criteria which are well stated, and if a foreigner does not correspond to one of them, he would be deemed not to be liable to flee. Isn't that discrediting our justice? Isn't that to send a curious message to illegal foreigners, something like: you can't stay with us; on the other hand, because we are very respectful of your freedom, we allow you all the time to travel in our country and even cross other borders to try your luck elsewhere? A person seeking asylum rarely does so with good heart. Leaving his culture, his land, his family, his life is a tragedy, a decision that is not taken lightly. It is not realistic to think that a person who has not won in a country resigns himself and waits wisely for the deignation to send him home. The reality speaks for itself: just under the windows of the Parisians, door of the Chapel, 75% of migrants are rejected of the right to asylum, mainly from Germany, and only 10% of the procedures for transferring the Dublin Regulation are successful. Subparagraph 3 therefore lacks realism. That is why I am asking for its deletion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u238	This amendment aims to remove the notion of "significant risk of leakage", precisely that of the European regulation that we want to apply in French law to enable the Government to be more effective. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u239	Finally a sentence! It's progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u240	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u241	The rapporteur's opinion is so well argued that I will simply follow it: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u242	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u243	This is a withdrawal amendment – as you have understood – aimed at restricting the possibility of detention to express cases where the asylum-seeker has been notified of his transfer decision, since detention at an earlier stage of the procedure is not desirable. This would extend the scope of this deprivation of liberty measure, which, in terms of letter and the spirit of the European regulation, should not be massive or excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u244	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u245	The Dublin Regulation allows European States to use this procedure. The opinion of the Council of State last July asks the legislator to take a position. That is why we propose to the Assembly to legislate in order to give the Government and the administration the opportunity to use such a procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u247	[[Applause on several benches of the REM and UAI groups]] He's still unfavorable. Ms Karamanli herself said that this was a withdrawal amendment. But we do not accept the withdrawal; We're always moving forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u249	This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u250	Nice for the colleague who defended the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u251	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u252	The asylum procedure is complex and needs to be changed in depth; This will be the subject of the text we will be discussing next spring. Then why is it urgent to legislate? This text has not been the subject of impact studies and, I believe, is coming a little early. In the area of human rights, particularly with regard to the sensitive subject of asylum, we must ensure that we are able to make the best decisions. Action should be taken both to protect the integrity of arrivals and to ensure the proper processing of application files. This text aims to fill the legal vacuum pointed out by national and European case law, as many colleagues have said. However, I regret that this legislative vehicle is being used to introduce the possibility of detaining an asylum-seeker who is the subject of a transfer procedure, before the transfer decision is taken, i.e. during the determination procedure. So far, detention was only possible after the determination of the responsible State. I prefer that we favour house arrest rather than administrative detention. The extension of detention is not desirable in our rule of law, which guarantees fundamental freedoms; It must remain exceptional and of very short duration – I thank you, Minister of State, for having recalled it. Rather than anticipating the possibility of detention, should we not reduce the length of the processing of applications? Financial and human resources are needed to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u253	The government is doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u254	The draft finance bill provides for this; That goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u255	Please come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u256	All right. The Dublin Regulation is not satisfactory; I would like it to be changed in depth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u257	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u258	Let me react, Minister of State: an amendment of withdrawal is not a declaration of war!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u259	I understood it that way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u260	Well, you don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u261	[[Smile on the benches of the UAI group]] Well, it's worth it to have been a senator for 20 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u262	A withdrawal amendment opens up an opportunity for discussion between Parliament and the Government. Your answer shows that there is no discussion possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u263	Thank you, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u264	I'm not finished, Minister of State! In reply to the rapporteur, Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure states: "Member States may not detain a person solely on the ground that he or she is the subject of the procedure laid down in this Regulation. » You go much further!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u265	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u266	I understand that this is a withdrawal amendment, but I cannot let you say that the examination will not be proportional, since this concept, absent from the original text, has been added to the one adopted in committee – it is also provided for in the Dublin regulation, which has direct effect in national law. Since the extension of retention before the transfer notification is also provided for in this Regulation, it will apply in any case. We are just using the terms of the European regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u268	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u269	Once it is not customary, the Court of Justice of the European Union, in its judgment of 7 March 2017, leaves room for manoeuvre for the Member States of the Union to set the objective criteria on which it would be reasonable to base its assessment that the asylum-seeker can flee. Yet, for once, it might have been appropriate for those criteria to be common to all States. This would certainly have made it possible to cooperate, anticipate and even fluidise the management of asylum applications submitted to the Dublin Regulation. Eleven objective criteria are stated, but – as far as immigration is concerned, there is always a "but" – instead of making them incisive, they are coated with a blurred concept by speaking of a "not negligible" risk of flight. I wonder about this term: is it really relevant? Should we not place a person in detention if there is a simple risk of escape, simply? Unfortunately, I fear that this is not on the agenda, in view of the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 27 September last, according to which foreigners, while preparing to return to a country in Europe, could all regain their freedom. I spent my whole day on Tuesday at the Beziers Central Police Station, and all the police officers, without exception, alerted me to the following fact: in the vast majority of cases, an individual who knows that he is going to be incarcerated or deported to the borders and who is left at liberty the time to implement this measure fades into nature, and it is then very complicated to put his hand on it. Please, let's try to be pragmatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u271	We are pragmatic: the expression "not negligible" appears in the European text, which the adoption of this bill will make it possible to apply. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u272	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u273	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u274	With this amendment – perhaps also an amendment of withdrawal, even if the link with war rhetoric is not sure – we propose to replace the words "not negligible" with the word "substantial", and therefore to draft the second sentence of the paragraph: "In assessing the existence of such a risk, the prefect may, in particular, take into account the following elements:". What is the philosophy of this amendment? It is a relatively minor editorial change in appearance, but would have a real impact on the application of these provisions by the prefectural administrations. Indeed, the wording proposed at this stage in the text tends to force the prefect to detain an asylum-seeker who is the subject of a Dublin procedure. But why, then, force your hand to the prefect, if not to contribute to the containment strategy that my colleague Clementine Autain clearly denounced? You want the prefect to automatically detain the applicant if there is a "significant" risk, i.e. if there is even a small suspicion of doubt. Similarly, you cite cases where the risk of leakage can be considered established "unless there are special circumstances". We find that these expressions give rise to a real risk of automated processing of each asylum application file, which would be dehumanizing and would run counter to everything you could tell us about France, host country, etc. The prefect would be encouraged to check boxes in pre-filled detention orders, as already happens in Paris, the police prefecture. We propose to give the Prefect the sovereign power to assess the situation by referring to a substantial rather than not negligible risk and recalling that the Prefect is always fully free to decide whether or not to detain him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u275	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u276	The text adopted by the Commission specifies cases in which "the significant risk of leakage may, except in special circumstances, be regarded as established".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u277	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u278	The automaticity of detention, which our colleague thinks he has perceived, is therefore not envisaged in the wording we propose. His amendment therefore seems to me to be satisfactory. If it were maintained, I would give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u280	The Court of Justice of the European Union asks us to define what is the significant risk. If we answer that this is a substantial risk, I doubt that it is fully satisfied...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u282	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u283	If the European Commission does not know how to distinguish between "significant" and "substantial", it may have to be changed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u284	This is the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u285	More seriously, there is still a semantic difference between a significant risk and a substantial risk. Speaking of a "significant" risk, you assume that the risk exists, that a suspicion is inherent in the situation, "except in particular circumstances", bla-bla-bla, while speaking of a "substantial" risk requires a positive definition. It's still not the same thing. I'm sorry you didn't share that feeling. For our part, we will defend this amendment and all the following.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u286	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u287	This amendment seeks to correct a manifest and serious unconstitutionality of the text. Indeed, to think too much of the right of asylum as a communal system through the European asylum system, the legislator forgets that French law provides for two types of asylum rights: the right of conventional asylum and the right of constitutional asylum, mentioned in paragraph 4 of the preamble to the 1946 Constitution. They are fundamentally different in nature: the first is the application of the Geneva Convention, while the second is part of the French tradition of political asylum resulting from the Revolution of 1789. This second type of right of asylum recalls our commitment to welcome all freedom fighters: where the Geneva Convention requires refugees to be protected in view of the serious threats to their lives, it is more than a political assessment, since the 1946 preamble mentions the ideas of persecution and action in favour of freedom. This is the whole French conception of freedom and human rights. This distinction is important because Edward Snowden could be welcomed on this basis, not on the basis of the Geneva Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u288	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u289	With regard to the 1993 parliamentary debates and Article 53(1) of the Constitution, it is very clear that in France there is no right to asylum. When he was in custody of the seals, Pierre Méhaignerie recalled that "the sovereign right of the State to examine an asylum application takes precedence over the objective right of the individual to claim freedom". The second paragraph of article 53-1 of the Constitution provides that "the authorities of the Republic shall always have the right to give asylum to any foreigner persecuted on account of his actions in favour of freedom". It is not a right to asylum but a right to asylum. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u290	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u291	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u292	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u293	Can you explain again? Between the right to asylum and the right to asylum, I did not grasp the nuance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u294	I think I've made it clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u295	I have before me an amendment No 57, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 67. Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u296	As noted in the general discussion, this amendment complements the Commission's text on the guarantee of fundamental rights – which are well-imported in the context of the detention or non-detention of "dulinés" – to take into account the vulnerability of the asylum-seeker at the time of the assessment with a view to the decision to place him in detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u297	The Minister of State has the floor to support Subamendment No. 67 and to give the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u298	The Government would support the amendment, subject to the inclusion of a sub-amendment to replace, in paragraph 4, the words "including taking into account" with the words "taking into account", and, at the end of the same paragraph, delete the words "assessed under the conditions provided for in article L. 744-6".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u299	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u300	I am in favour of the amendment and very much in favour of the sub-amendment – especially since it removes an adverb, and it is never good to introduce an adverb in a legislative article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u301	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u302	We are also in favour of this sub-amendment. For the benefit of my colleagues, I would point out that Article L. 744-6 concerns a procedure provided for in the CESEDA – the Code on the Entry and Residence of Aliens and the Right of Asylum – but not applicable to the special asylum-seeker scheme "dublinated". We preferred to keep a generic definition to protect vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u303	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u304	When the subject is serious, as much as the question of the European asylum system, it is necessary to be precise. Unfortunately, this is not the case with paragraph 3, which provides for "special circumstances" in which the significant risk of leakage may not be considered established. The expression "unless special circumstances" carries with it its lot of imprecision; It is not clear what it includes because it is not clearly defined. It has only one merit: imply everything and its opposite. Will the list of special circumstances be assessed in concrete terms? Will it be limited or will it eventually constitute a second list of criteria discovered by the judge? No one knows. One can also understand this expression in a very restrictive way, to the point that apart from the strictly stated assumptions, it would be practically impossible to consider that any index, however relevant it may be, could find thanks to the eyes of the administrative judge, as bound by the law; A foreigner could therefore flee on the sole ground that a criterion has not been anticipated by the legislator. I remember that, in order to appreciate a concept, reference must be made, as Montesquieu said, to the very spirit of the text. In this case, however, it is quite clear: it introduces a minimalist restriction of liberty for the foreigner, even if the foreigner is in an irregular situation. You even go so far as to invent a presumption of cooperation between the alien seeking asylum and the French administration. For a question of legal certainty and, above all, of the proper management of migratory flows, it seems more than opportune to delete this expression, since it is imprecise.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u305	How human she is!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u307	This formulation allows the judge to do his or her job and, if circumstances warrant, to make his or her decision on the basis of these. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u308	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u309	Article 1e ra provides that the applicant cannot be regarded as presenting a significant risk of flight at the time of submission for the registration of a first asylum application in France. However, the many criteria set out in this article are likely to allow for a rapid characterization of this risk and thus lead to detention. In practice, the specific Dublin interview often takes place in the wake of the first interview in front of the one-stop shop on the same day. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure a sufficient period of time between these two interviews, so that the applicant can gather the documents justifying the particular circumstances mentioned at the moment. Indeed, if the person were immediately identified as having a significant risk of leakage, and thus placed in administrative detention, he would not have the opportunity to collect supporting documents or to effectively assert his situation. At this stage of the procedure, the applicant is usually not supported by an association explaining his rights and which documents should be provided; So he's often a little lost. On the other hand, this period is useful if the person needs time for medical reasons, e.g. to obtain a medical certificate, for family reasons, e.g. to demonstrate that he or she is in charge of a dependent person, or to recover any other documents missing from him or her. Each case is unique, and a list of possible special circumstances cannot be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u311	The cases I have mentioned are from the reality, from the experiences of asylum seekers in our prefectures.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u312	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u313	I'm not done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u314	[[Walls on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Of course, but the time has expired. I will allow you to proceed, but you have exhausted your speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u315	I'm almost done, Mr. President. Applicants need time, accompaniment. Many associations work alongside them. I think we need to give them the time they need.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u316	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u317	It's about finding this fragile balance...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u318	Thank you. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u319	I believe that Rule 1a, introduced at the initiative of the Chair of the Committee on Laws, responds to your concern. My opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u321	I am asking for this amendment to be withdrawn, otherwise I will give an unfavorable opinion. I would remind you that the JLD – the judge of liberty and detention – can, during a detention, be seized from the first hour, and that it is automatically seized after 48 hours. In this context, the person concerned will have the opportunity to make representations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u322	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u323	Thank you for that clarification, Minister of State. I think it is really fundamental to grant this deadline to asylum seekers, because each case is special...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u324	You've already said it! We got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u325	I have already said that, but I would like to repeat that, my dear colleague. I would prefer to maintain this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u326	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u327	For our part, we are in favour of this amendment, even though it is in step with our request, namely the deletion of the text as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u328	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u329	Mr Minister of State, you must understand that asylum seekers do not necessarily practice the French language, that they are not in the same state of tranquillity as yours tonight and that, in their situation, it is not easy for them to obtain all the information requested by the administration. You act as if these people were scholars, working in the administration, or knowing exactly what they are returning to in a piece of legislation, when they are people in difficulty and do not necessarily speak well French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u330	We have tabled an amendment to add the obligation to provide applicants with information in a language they understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u331	Yes! Read it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u332	The Minister of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u333	This is a strictly editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u334	Mr Gérard Collomb, Minister of State, has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u335	This is a precise amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u336	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u337	In the spirit of what Mrs Dumont asked for earlier, we propose that additional guarantees be provided to asylum seekers within the framework of the non-negligible risk criteria. It is thus important to supplement paragraph 13 with the words: "if he has been informed in a language which he understands or which it is reasonable to think he understands, of the consequences of his refusal".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u339	We shall consider in a few moments an amendment No. 59 of the La République en marche group which aims very precisely to provide that "any applicant shall receive, in a language which he understands or which it is reasonable to assume he understands, information about his rights and obligations". I fully understand our colleague's concern, but I dare to suggest that he withdraw his amendment to support Amendment No 59, which fully meets his expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u341	The same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u342	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u343	Whether or not you dare ask me to withdraw this amendment is not the point, because my amendment concerns Article 1, while Amendment No 59 concerns Article 1a, and these two articles do not concern the same subject. It therefore seems important to us to introduce this provision in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u344	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u345	The purpose of this amendment is to prevent any risk of flight within the national territory of a foreigner who is "known to be connected or to have sympathies for terrorist organizations". Again, nothing revolutionary, unless you wear eyelets that prevent you from seeing reality! In the face of fanatics willing to kill, to commit other attacks, I prefer to see things as they are. Of course, this vision is unpleasant, but society is rarely the same as we want to see it. A man close to a terrorist organization like Daesh is a dangerous man. You have to know how to designate him so you can neutralize him. When it comes to protecting or saving lives, depriving a man of his freedom to come and go doesn't seem excessive. A foreigner known to be in contact with terrorist organizations or to have sympathies with them must be monitored, and the best solution is to place him in a detention centre before he leaves the territory. Let us be pragmatic: at a time when the Islamic State is being reduced as the skin of grief, it seems to me essential to arm France against so-called asylum seekers, close to the Islamist movements! These men and women must be monitored. Again, let us be realistic: let us arrogate against the influx of invasions of these people who choose Europe, France, as asylum, or rather, in this very specific case, as a land of combat.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u346	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u347	Our Assembly voted a few weeks ago the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism. A person suspected of terrorist acts does not deserve to be held in detention, but in prison! The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u348	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u349	The same opinion as the rapporteur, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u350	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u351	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the REM group]] Forgive me, Mrs Ménard, but the amalgam that you have just made between people in distress, who are seeking asylum, and terrorists, is really out of place. We are told all the time that our words are displaced; Tonight, it's yours. Such a combination is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u352	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u353	Unfortunately, reality has shown – and I absolutely do not amalgamate by saying it –...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u354	Definitely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u355	...that there are, among the asylum seekers, people who really are, but also people who are actually economic migrants, and finally a few – this is not the majority of cases, but it exists and it is stupid to hide the face...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u356	We're not looking at each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u357	There are people who claim to be patriots when they are delinquents!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u358	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] The facts proved it! I don't know why you deny it! Some of them are jihadists who, according to Daesh's own advice, take advantage of refugee flows to cross Europe. I don't understand why you're covering your face. This is not the majority of cases, I repeat, but it exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u359	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u360	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u361	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u362	By this amendment, we wish to fully guarantee the best interests of children – a concept defined by article 3, paragraph 1, of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child – when they are, together with their parents, in an irregular situation in our territory. Of course, there are almost 10,000 isolated minors, but migrant children do not, for the most part, belong to this category. There are approximately 50,000 migrant children arriving with their parents. It is essential to ensure that their parents, guardians or any person legally responsible for them cannot be detained. France is under the regular and strict supervision of the United Nations, the United Nations. UNICEF – the United Nations Children's Fund – strongly denounced the risks faced by migrant minors in France in May 2017. France, the homeland of human rights, has become, through intellectual insanity and the incompetence of its policies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u363	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u364	... a country where the rights of foreign minors are ignored. We must immediately put an end to the most serious violations, by simply prohibiting the detention of foreign minors, even accompanied by their parents. For us, Article L. 511-4 of the CESEDA, under which minor foreigners cannot be subject to an obligation to leave French territory, is not sufficient. A clear principle must be laid down in article L. 511-1, prohibiting the detention of minors, even accompanied by them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u365	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u366	Recently, in 2015, the majority of this assembly made the latest amendment to Article L. 551-1 of the Code on the Entry and Residence of Foreigners and the Right of Asylum, introducing provisions protecting vulnerable minors. It applies in this respect. It is therefore not necessary to take specific measures in this text on foreigners covered by the Dublin Regulation. No, my dear colleague, France does not have to be ashamed of the manner in which it behaves vis-à-vis foreign minors present on its territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u367	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u368	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u369	This is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u370	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u371	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u372	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u373	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u374	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 47 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u375	The purpose of this amendment is to encourage the State to pay particular attention to child soldiers. I am thinking here of the child soldiers that Daesh is training from an early age, in Iraq or Syria – and Mrs Taurine does not mind, the facts are established. They must first play with plastic pistols then very early learn how to handle a kalashnikov. They have to watch Islamist propaganda films featuring beheadings, bombings, rapes. They must learn war in training camps where error is punishable by death. Faced with these "caliphate lions", as they are called there, accustomed to killing, we are totally disarmed. These children deserve our full attention: they must be particularly monitored. Of course, they are not responsible, but they have been conditioned. These particular cases must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u376	And what do you propose to do with these children?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u377	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u378	I fully agree with the sentence that your amendment proposes to add to the bill: "The State pays particular attention to child soldiers. But it's a declaration, not an article of law. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u379	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u380	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u381	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u382	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u383	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] After the confusion between asylum seekers and terrorism, you go so far as to say that you want to lock up children in detention camps. It's just outrageous! We're against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u384	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u385	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u386	You go too far, Madame Ménard: you reach peaks in shame! Since you want to play amalgam, let's go! It seems that the far-right networks around which you gravitate have tried to foment the assassination of Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Christophe Castaner. It would therefore be necessary, in order to follow your reasoning, for Front National activists and your other friends to be subject to administrative measures, because we never know, they pose a risk! Stop with these stupid reasonings that lead you to ask for the placement of children in the detention centre. We're swimming in the middle of delusion! Besides, your amendment, as drafted, has nothing to do with a law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u387	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u388	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Amalgamation, you're the one swimming in the middle of it: bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u389	You opened the ball!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u390	I keep taking precautions, precisely, not to amalgamate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u391	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u392	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] I'm just saying that there is a terrorist risk, that people – albeit a minority –...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u393	[[Smile on the benches of the UAI group]] We should set up a special commission to let extremists debate each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u394	Let me finish! I said that some people, although a minority, claim to be refugees in order to be able to return to France; These facts are proven.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u395	You want to make these kids wear an electronic bracelet, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u396	Go on, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u397	In this amendment, I am referring to minors, and I would like to draw attention to them as much as possible. I didn't hear what you're lending me, Mr. Bernalicis. Can one be right to keep, to have a calm debate and not, once again, to hide the reality?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u398	What reality?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u399	I would like some in this House to take their eyes off at times.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u400	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u401	In accordance with Article 11 of the European Directive 2013/ 33/EU establishing standards for the reception of persons seeking international protection – i.e. foreigners covered by the Dublin III Regulation – the so-called "host directive", this amendment refers to a decree in the Council of State specifying the modalities for taking into account a transfer decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u402	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u403	Correction welcome. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u404	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u405	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u406	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u407	The concern expressed by this amendment is entirely legitimate; I understand it, of course. However, it already appears to me to be sufficiently taken into account by Article 28(4) of the Dublin III Regulation, which provides that Articles 9, 10 and 11 of Directive 2013/ 33/EU apply. However, Article 11 of this Directive, on the detention of vulnerable persons and asylum seekers with special reception needs, is quite clear and detailed concerning the arrangements relating in particular to minors, non-mixed persons and family life, and, to my knowledge, it is applied in France. In these circumstances, I do not see the need for a decree in the Council of State to clarify its terms. Moreover, if this amendment were adopted, I fear that it would differ from the coming into force of the bill until the decree is published, that is, within a time frame that I have a great deal of difficulty in appreciating. The MODEM Group will therefore vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u408	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u409	For the clarity of our debates and for those who will read them, I would like the Government to clarify its intentions, because vulnerability is already defined in the legislative part of the CESEDA. It seems that no decree clarifies this concept, but the amendment of the Republic on the move – the very precise wording of which suggests that the Government has looked at it very closely – empowers the Government to issue a decree to that effect. What do we want to put in this decree? If we want too much clarification, are we not yet going to create litigious nests in these matters?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u410	No, we just want to secure the device!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u411	I was expecting an answer from the minister, Mr. Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u412	The Minister of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u413	Coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u414	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u415	Paragraphs 16 to 19 of Article 1 create a new procedure – admittedly permitted by European law but not used so far in our country – allowing the administrative detention of an applicant for asylum during the period of the procedure for determining the State, other than France, responsible for examining his application. This seems to us to be a disproportionate and unacceptable extension of the measure, which must remain exceptional, since detention is particularly detrimental to freedoms. Recall that the foreigner or the foreigner is then locked in a holding centre surrounded by fences. The hypocrisy on this point, as we have already pointed out in the general discussion, is obvious since the rate of execution of transfer decisions for asylum seekers who have been the subject of a Dublin procedure was less than 6 % in 2016 and the first half of 2017. We believe that the desire to strengthen detentions before the intervention of a transfer decision is symptomatic of a fundamentally scornful policy towards the fundamental rights of foreigners and foreigners seeking asylum. They are therefore treated not with the dignity and respect due to them, but as criminals in power. Indeed, it is not because a thorough examination of the asylum-seeker's file could eventually lead to his transfer to another State, which would be responsible for the examination of his application, that the prefect must have the same possibilities as when a transfer order was actually taken. The risk of escape is not similar for a claimant under a transfer order and for a non-applicant. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the third principle of our republican motto is fraternity. Where is benevolence, where is this universal humanism traditionally dear to France?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u416	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u417	The committee rejected this amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u418	The Minister of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u419	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u420	The Minister of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u421	This is another editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u422	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u423	As in (a) of the 2° of Article 1, the (b) of the 2° advances the border of the exceptional and reverses that of the common law by providing for a measure particularly infringing on fundamental rights and freedoms. Indeed, it extends the cases allowing the transition from house arrest to detention. The adoption of this paragraph would mean that detention could be envisaged, following non-compliance with a house arrest, no longer as soon as the explicit decision, by order, to transfer the alien, but even before it, during the search and determination phase of the State other than France competent to process the asylum application. We believe that, in such a serious matter for the individual rights of foreigners, such requests cannot be dealt with almost automatically. The law must explicitly provide that the case of each foreigner who may be detained should be examined in a more detailed and more serious manner. However, by facilitating the bridges between lack of knowledge of house arrest and detention, you would give the prefect the opportunity to automate detention, even though there may be many reasons why the foreigner could not respect his house arrest. Who has not one day been prevented from coming to an appointment with any administrative department?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u424	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u425	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u426	The committee rejected this amendment. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u427	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u428	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u429	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u430	I wanted to speak on Amendment No 64 to speak with the Minister of State on the question of reception, if he would not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u431	Too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u432	We cannot debate an amendment that has already been put to the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u433	The aim of the text is to be able to send more people back to the responsible country, in accordance, of course, with the Dublin III Regulation. But they are handed over to countries that, as we know, are overloaded and not always able to accommodate them in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u434	That is not the right amendment, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u435	The question of solidarity between European countries should be discussed again. I assume we will have the opportunity to refer to it in the debate on the bill that has been announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u436	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u437	France itself is not in a position to receive all these arrivals with dignity, and I wonder why they should be sent back to the country of first arrival when it already encounters difficulties – I am thinking of Italy or Greece. This issue was mentioned in particular by Mr Boudié in the general discussion. Are we doing enough in terms of reception? I believe that we must take our part and welcome with dignity. So this comprehensive reform, which our group is calling for, goes well beyond the Dublin system. Requests should be dealt with at the most relevant level, i.e. at European level. For my part, I imagine the creation of a European agency to ensure fairness...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u438	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u439	[[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] [[Same movements]] I do not go any further, but I would like the Minister of State to clarify this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u440	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u441	To be pleasant to my colleague from the UAI Group, consider that I have defended him, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u442	I'm asking for a session suspension!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u443	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u444	The meeting was resumed. I shall put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u445	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 52, which deletes Rule 1a.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u446	Something surprises me in this article. It states that an alien applying for asylum in France for the first time cannot be regarded as presenting a significant risk of flight. There would thus be a kind of presumption of cooperation between the person concerned and the French administration. But what is the basis of this presumption? In wanting to be the right students of the CJEU, we find ourselves in a somewhat absurd situation: to estimate that a person is likely to flee, she would have to have already fled. In other words, instead of anticipating, we will again be subjected to migratory flows. Asylum seekers benefit from the many shortcomings of the Dublin III system and, whether they want it or not – it is a reality – some of them are fleeing. I don't think all this is very serious. The first principle to be applied is that of security, not that of the presumption of cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u447	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u448	The Commission does not share this analysis. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u449	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u450	The amendment responds to the request of the La République en marche group for good information on the rights and obligations of the asylum-seeker. We thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues in committee for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u451	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 41, which deletes Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u452	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u453	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u454	There is something quite surprising in your desire to delete the first two paragraphs of article L. 742-2 from the code of entry and residence of aliens and the right of asylum. This is the procedure that allows a State to determine whether or not it is responsible for processing an alien's application for asylum. But you want to delete these two paragraphs, which make it possible to assign this alien to residence, at least pending the processing of his file, which, I would remind you, must theoretically be rapid, with a view to an effective follow-up of the application. This is a simple option left to the administration so that it may or may not assign a foreigner to residence, for example, so that he or she cannot escape. The decision of the administration had to be reasoned – that is, to tell you how anxious this article was not to arbitrarily deprive a person of liberty. I repeat, I do not really understand the purpose of deleting these two paragraphs. In practice, how can we safely manage the migratory flows to which we are subjected? I believe, however, to grasp your will: in essence, you are so attached to the freedom to go and come – or rather to the idea you are concerned about – that you are prepared to endanger the security of the French and, more generally, Europeans. A strong administration that has concrete means to manage its migratory flow – even if not to use it – is a responsible administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u455	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u456	Dear colleague, we could never have been driven by such motivation! It is simply a matter of uniting two procedures of house arrest: the first two paragraphs of article L. 742-2 are deleted but the device is merged into article L. 561-2. It provides for a term of 45 days, renewable three times, i.e. not more than 180 days. We secure and give a single framework to two procedures. I would therefore like to suggest that you withdraw your amendment. Your motivation, if you believed in good faith that these were our intentions, was understandable, but it does not correspond to reality. We do not remove anything; we merge the measures, for the sake of simplification.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u457	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u458	[[Smile]] As is often the case, the rapporteur is right. The Government's opinion was also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u459	I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u460	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u461	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u462	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u463	We propose here that the Government and the rapporteur introduce the reference to Directive 2013/ 33/EC, in particular Article 10, on the conditions for detention. The aim is to prevent a number of risks. The new system introduced by this bill, which fills a legal gap, must not, however, lead to a quasi-presumption of the need for detention for Dublin nationals and to a form of automaticity between residence and administrative detention regimes. We draw the attention of our colleagues to the fact that, in this context, there are risks that the rights of foreigners, including the specific rights linked to the conditions of detention, may not be fully respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u464	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u465	The European text called the "Home Directive", which you rightly refer to, Mrs Karamanli, has been transposed into our legislation by the laws of 29 July 2015 and 7 March 2016, which were carried by the majority to which you belonged. Articles L. 551-2 and L. 561-3, which provide for a device identical to what you propose, are of course applicable. I would like to point out that you should be satisfied with the work you have done yourself during the previous legislature. Should you nevertheless wish to maintain this amendment, the committee would be against it, but only for that reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u466	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u467	It is the same as the rapporteur's request for the withdrawal of Amendment No 42, otherwise the Government will be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u468	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u469	This amendment to Article 2 refers to Article 11 of the same Directive 2013/ 33/ EC. We hope that, in the context of administrative detention procedures, measures can guarantee rights to minors and families. If the new scheme introduced by the proposed law meets a legal need, as you said, it must not lead to a quasi-presumption of the need for detention for foreigners. Again, we want to prevent a number of risks brought about by the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u470	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u471	I will be caught in flagrante delicto of repetition: I refer you to the same texts, to the same directive, to the same laws that you have passed, dear colleague. Article L. 551-1 provides exactly the protections you are claiming. If you refuse to withdraw your amendment, I will be forced to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u472	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u473	Same opinion: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u474	Mrs Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u475	The debate is not just about agreeing or disagreeing with what we voted earlier. The facts are stubborn; I think that it is necessary to recall things well in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u476	I have before me a number of amendments containing additional articles after Article 2. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u477	The formal precautions provided for in Article 388 of the Civil Code provide that bone tests may be carried out only, on the one hand, when no valid identity document can be produced and when the alleged age is not likely,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u478	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u479	... and, on the other hand, by decision of the judicial authority, after obtaining the consent of the person concerned, and if the conclusions of that examination specify the margin of error, it being understood that these alone cannot be used to determine the minority. But the reality is unfortunately very different. First, this type of medical expertise is scientifically and ethically challenged by physicians. The High Council for Public Health, in its report of 23 January 2014, explains: "The maturation of an individual has physiological variations according to sex, ethnic or geographical origin, nutritional status or socio-economic status. It is not ethical to ask a physician to practice and interpret a test that is not scientifically validated and is not implemented in the person's therapeutic interest. In case of doubt, an ethical decision must always give priority to the interests of the most vulnerable person, in this case the young person. Let us also recall the unequivocal opinion of the National Consultative Conference on Human Rights set out in 2014: "The National Academy of Medicine, the High Council for Public Health and the medical community have more precisely noted that the bone test contains possibilities of error by not allowing a clear distinction between sixteen and eighteen years of age. It is all the more problematic since most of the [foreign isolated minors] present on French territory are 16 years of age or older. » This amendment is therefore intended to prohibit any use of bone tests, regardless of the legal or procedural framework and the reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u480	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u481	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u482	This amendment was not directly related to the bill and was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u483	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u484	The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u485	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u486	First of all, these amendments fall well within the scope of the text. Since we are talking about refugees this evening, it seems to us important to revisit a number of provisions. The debate should enable us to improve legislation. In this spirit, Amendment No 10 aims at re-establishing the ten-year residence permit as a reference residence permit for foreigners and foreigners, based on progressive laws of our country, such as the one of 17 July 1984.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u487	Another legislative rider caught up in France's insoubted!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u488	Since then, it has been swept away by the slow infusion, with an electoralist and demagogue aim, of far-right ideas in the public debate. To illustrate how the French people were deceived by designating foreigners and foreigners as the source of their problems, the following are simple figures: according to INED data, the Institut national d'études démocratiques, France had 6.3 per cent foreigners in 1983 and 6.1 per cent in 2014. So we can see that there's hardly any surge. The aim of this amendment is to return to the 1984 law by reducing from five to three years the period of regular residence necessary to be able to apply for a resident card of 10 years and by granting a residence permit of one year for the person who has justified residence in France for at least 15 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u489	But the text under discussion aims to transpose a European text!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u490	Consideration of this bill should give us the opportunity, both on this issue and on those raised by our other amendments, to move forward so that our right is truly progressive and allows for the reception, settlement and residence in our territory of migrants and migrants who so wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u491	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u492	As the committee rejected the amendment, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u493	Is Amendment No 11 defended, Mrs Autain?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u494	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Mr President, I will take the necessary democratic time to defend him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u495	It seems to me that you are taking a lot...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u496	They're in bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u497	It's a hemicycle, not a theater scene!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u498	Don't raise it, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u499	Amendment No 11 supplements the previous one: it aims to remind the Prefect that he must always give full and serious consideration to the situation of any foreigner and that his competence is in no way bound. We therefore wish to amend Article L. 511-1 of the CESEDA, concerning, this time, the modalities of the famous OQTF, i.e. the obligation to leave French territory without delay of voluntary departure. In the current state of law, an irregular alien may be subject to an OQTF. The standard is, however, that it provides for a voluntary departure period from an irregular alien. However, in three specific cases, the prefect may decide, by a reasoned decision, to force an alien to leave French territory without delay: one, if there is a threat to public order; two, if the application is manifestly unfounded or fraudulent; three, if there is a risk that he will evade this obligation. However, the law is drafted in such a way that this risk of subtraction is considered to be established in many cases, which seriously limits the duty of the prefect to examine the situation and to state the reasons for his decision. In order to avoid this automaticity, which implies that the prefect can take OQTFs without delay, on the chain and without specific motivation, it seems fundamental to us to introduce the concept of substantial risk and to put an end to the automaticity of presumption by restoring to the prefect the fullness of its discretion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u500	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u501	The committee rejected this amendment. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u502	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u503	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u504	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u505	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] It is not because Amendment No 11 was rejected by the committee that any discussion and arguments should be abandoned. If you don't, you might as well vote the law in committee! Even if, I know, that's what you want, that's not the case yet. Suffer to argue, at least for those Members of your own majority who were not present in committee and were unable to follow the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u506	We need to read the transcripts!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u507	We can't do anything. Be a little democrat!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u508	We trust the rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u509	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 27, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u510	By this amendment, we propose a global recast of the trial procedure for decisions on the detention of aliens, in order to bring it into line with the ordinary law: the formation of a judgement composed of three judges and not more than one; presence of a public rapporteur at the hearing; Impossible to use tele-audiences at the foot of aircraft. The most vulnerable litigants need these procedural rights even more than others. The adoption of this amendment would be an opportunity to extend to foreigners all the procedural guarantees provided for in the ordinary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u511	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u512	The committee again delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u513	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u514	I will defend it, but I would have liked to have been told why the previous amendment received an unfavourable opinion. Replying that the committee rejected it is not enough. If we could be informed, it would be good. Amendment No 28 is a fallback amendment which aims to restore the mandatory nature of a guarantee of the right to appeal which has now been abolished for disputes relating to the expulsion of aliens. Following a deterioration in the quality of justice, to the detriment of the applicants, since the decree of 23 December 2011, the public rapporteur is no longer obliged to formulate the conclusions I mentioned earlier. We ask that it be restored.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u515	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u516	The committee also discussed it. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u517	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u518	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u519	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u520	Can you explain why you refuse foreigners to have the same rights as everyone else?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u521	This has nothing to do with the text we are considering!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u522	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u523	Mr Minister of State, Mr rapporteur, I am surprised at the turn of this debate. I have been elected as a Member of Parliament, not of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but of the French Republic, and as such I am considering drafting the law in this House. I am not a member of the Law Committee, but I come to the Chamber to work on the text. There is a minimum of correction to have. All Members should be informed, not just those of the committee, and we should be given arguments in response to the amendments tabled; If you don't, you don't have to come and work here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u524	It's out of the question, you know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u525	What's out of the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u526	Your amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u527	We can still give arguments! On the other hand, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to inform colleagues that there is no one in the public gallery. Do you know why? Because three or four weeks ago, on the pretext of security, it was decided to abolish a system that existed since the French Revolution, consisting of the first ten citizens who appeared at the entrance of the National Assembly having the opportunity to attend the meeting without asking for permission from anyone, so as to control the functioning of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u528	Maybe it's also because it's almost an hour in the morning...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u529	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As a result, what happens here only passes through the microphone and camera filter, and citizens no longer have control over Parliament. I wanted to express this regret to our colleagues who did not know.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u530	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u531	In committee, the rapporteur went so far as to tell us the day and time when certain amendments relating to other texts had been presented and discussed. Perhaps he could repeat this achievement, for the pleasure of the whole House?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u532	[[Smile]] What do I have to work for?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u533	The purpose of this amendment is to abolish specially designed courts, in particular those located in the vicinity of airport runways. In the Delcourt judgment of 17 January 1970, the European Court of Human Rights enshrined the theory of appearances, which means that justice must not only be said but also give the impression that it has been well done. I think everyone sees about what it's about. Moreover, those of our colleagues who have visited with me the brand new courthouse in Paris have realized that the architectural design, the way the trial is held, the location of the building and the places where its various parts are located have an impact on the conception of justice, the way it is rendered and its independence. When the courtroom is at the foot of the aircraft, there is a total interlocking with the airport waiting area, which does not allow the persons judged to make the difference between the border police and the justice system: the separation, yet structuring, between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior does not even exist anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u534	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u535	The committee did not consider this amendment in substance but in accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. She gave an unfavorable opinion because these locations seem to us to be in the interest of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u536	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u537	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u538	Same opinion: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u539	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u540	[[Exclaims on the REM and IAU panels]] Perhaps we will have more arguments next spring, when we look at the full text on asylum, because this is a foretaste. You often invoke the out of the question and I imagine that this will continue for the next amendments. Why don't you pass a rule that an out-of-issue amendment cannot be considered?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u541	That wouldn't be a bad idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u542	This is the case in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom: the speaker dismisses amendments that do not relate to the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u543	Go ahead, do it! Take over! In the meantime, if an amendment can be considered, it is not completely out of the question, or at least it falls within the democratic framework provided for by the Rules of Procedure of our Assembly and the Constitution. Remember, rapporteur: it was you who told me that we had the right to table amendments at 20.00 p.m. the day before the sitting. Even if you want to change it, for the time being, the rule is that. The rule is the rule!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u544	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u545	This is a fallback amendment in relation to Amendment No 27, as corrected. If you do not wish to reform the procedure for the adjudication of detention decisions by the administrative court, you could at least adopt one of the guarantees we offer. In an opinion of 14 October 2011, the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty pointed out: "videoconferencing is a weakening of the rights of the defence in that it puts an end to the physical presence of the comparison which is also a means of expression (especially since many defendants have great difficulty speaking orally). It presupposes ease of expression in front of a camera or a desk and equality in this respect according to persons who are far from being acquired [...]. In cases where the person has a lawyer, the lawyer is forced to choose between being with the judge (mostly in the case) or staying with the client: the relationship with one or the other is less easy and the task of counsel is made more difficult. Technical hazards can exacerbate the difficulties." The purpose of this amendment is to remove the possibility of video conferencing. The Code on the Entry and Residence of Aliens and the Right of Asylum, CESEDA, allows hearings no longer to be held in the presence of the parties, but by videoconference. For faster and cheaper fuel-cost justice – as the applicant or applicant must be transported if detained – the legislator has provided for this possibility. When do you get any judgements on Skype? As indicated by the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty, this is a decline in the rights of the defence. From our point of view, it is a justice rendered in a dehumanized manner. We therefore propose that this possibility be reconsidered. We hope that you will vote for this amendment, so that the rights of migrants can be fully defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u546	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u547	The Law Commission did not wish to delete hearings by videoconference: unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u548	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u549	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u550	Same opinion: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u551	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u552	The committee didn't want to, but it can change its mind, right? I hope we don't have to wait until 2022. As with the judgments made at the foot of the planes, there is a fundamental problem. When the staging of the trial does not even require physical presence...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u553	There is always the possibility of using holograms! Mr. Mélenchon is not present at his meetings either!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u554	What a disrespect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u555	I don't think Jean-Luc Mélenchon makes judgments for asylum seekers, Mr. Herth. But perhaps you would prefer a smartphone app with a blue thumb pointing upwards and a red thumb pointing downwards: this migrant? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Frankly, what world do we live in? This reminds me of the Black Mirror series, which you may have seen, which asks us about the progress of technologies and how we use them in everyday life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u556	We're moving away from the text, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u557	They create monstrosities, which distance us from the ideal of justice of the Enlightenment and our republican motto. It would seem to us to be fairer, more judicious, more effective if justice were to be done in an appropriate framework and not solely on the basis of economic or budgetary considerations, because there is not enough money. I find this scandalous and hope that the amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u558	What does it have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u559	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u560	This amendment concerns readmission agreements, bilateral agreements signed between one or more States and a third State, which aim to facilitate the readmission of irregular migrants in the territory of the partner State. The European Union considers these tools to be important elements of the concerted management of migratory flows. This is again part of a completely dehumanizing flow management logic, which responds to a strategy to combat irregular immigration and return policy. As my colleague Clementine Autain has shown admirably in the rostrum, this is a strategy of containment, not of reception. This strategy of outsourcing migration controls poses a number of human and ethical challenges, which have been denounced by human rights associations – but it has been seen on several occasions, in the context of the review of texts on security and asylum, that they did not have a fair share in this House. These difficulties are even greater when readmission agreements are signed between countries that do not offer the same guarantees of respect for international standards for the protection of migrants' rights or even the right to asylum. The aim of this amendment is therefore to make effective the principle of reciprocity relating to readmission agreements, by ensuring a convergence from the top of the guarantees offered to foreigners and asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u561	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u562	The matter was not discussed by the Law Committee, which gave an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u563	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u564	This amendment tends to decriminalize irregular residence and to make it fall within the scope of article 131-13 of the Criminal Code, which is of a contraventional nature. We are simply calling for the continuation of the progressive judicial wave of the El Dridi judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, handed down in 2011, and the subsequent judgments of the Court of Cassation, which in particular forced Parliament to legislate on police custody for irregular residence. It is proposed to decriminalize the retention on French territory of a foreigner or a foreigner who is subject to a measure of deportation, an obligation to leave French territory or an administrative ban on the territory. However, the criminalization of the retention on French territory of a foreigner or a foreigner who is subject to an expulsion order or a judicial prohibition from the territory, in view of the overriding reasons of public policy which may justify such measures, would be maintained. As compensation for decriminalization, we propose a penalty in the form of a fifth class violation, a maximum violation provided for in article 131-13 of the Criminal Code. We do not hesitate to say that the decriminalization of the irregular stay would be a means of mitigating the violence of a prison sentence, while the most severe of the violations is largely sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u565	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u566	This issue is not within the scope of the proposed legislation and the Commission has issued an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u567	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u568	This amendment tends to create a new status: that of a climate refugee. According to UN estimates, by 2050, 250 million people will be forced into exile as a result of climate change, and a substantial part of these forced migrations will take place outside national borders. This fundamental phenomenon is not sufficiently taken into account in the reflection on the ecological crisis; it deserves the full attention of the legislator. The humanitarian and geopolitical issues are indeed considerable. These events will inevitably lead national representation to incorporate this new phenomenon into asylum legislation. International law does not yet really apprehend environmental refugees. Nevertheless, in 1985, the United Nations Environment Programme proposed a definition of this type of housing: "any person forced to leave his traditional home temporarily or permanently because of a net deterioration in his or her environment that upsets his or her living environment and seriously disequilibrates his or her quality of life". We propose that our legislation be a precursor in this area, by providing that the benefit of subsidiary protection is granted to any person who suffers in his or her country of origin a deterioration of his or her environment resulting in a serious disruption of his or her living environment. The legislator will necessarily have to adapt our right to the situations created by the ecological crisis. In our view, it would be more reasonable to initiate these changes now rather than in response to a future crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u569	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u570	This issue did not fall within the scope of the bill, and the Law Commission issued an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u571	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u572	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u573	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u574	It is a pity that Mr. Hulot is not here because he had provided an interesting answer when he was questioned on the subject during questions to the Government! I had been surprised that the Minister of the Interior remained silent, but I had thought it was because we would consider the matter later. Today would have been a good opportunity to start talking about it and get a start on the matter. Climate refugees will be the problem of tomorrow. It is not an anecdotal question, which is raised to please one another. The deputies of La France insoumée did not say to each other: here, if we were talking about climate refugees? No, as my colleague has just explained, this is a fundamental issue for the years to come. I would therefore find it interesting for the Minister of the Interior to at least give us his position on the matter. In the draft law on asylum policy, which we will be debating next spring, does he intend to introduce provisions on climate refugees? This issue will indeed be at stake tomorrow, but perhaps the Minister of State will tell us that this is not the case, preferring to pursue the strategy of containment and removal to the country of origin. Unless he recommends investing in pedal boats given the rise in water? In any case, I would like to get a somewhat reasoned answer from him.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u575	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u576	This amendment aims to remove the so-called "accelerated" procedure, which allows asylum applications to be processed in a simplified manner when the third country to which the alien is to be returned is considered a "safe country of origin". In addition to remedying the shortcomings of the regularly denounced priority procedure and the observed violation of the right to an effective remedy, this amendment would render obsolete the concept of "safe country of origin", which introduces discrimination between refugees. In addition to being politically unworthy, this list is a diplomatic nonsense. I would like to point out that the heated debates that have always taken place at European level since the European Council in Tampere in 1999, when this concept first appeared in asylum and immigration policy. No country, even the most democratic, can ensure the safety of all its citizens. This procedure is based on a fully assumed goal of managing human flows: saving time, discouraging asylum seekers and, consequently, reducing statistics. It is in this sense that the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, has repeatedly expressed concern that asylum applications from countries deemed to be safe automatically rejected, without their being able to defend themselves. It's really time to end it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u577	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u578	The committee did not wish to put an end to this accelerated procedure, and it gave an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u579	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u580	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u581	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u582	As the time is late and we do not have much time to spend together, beyond your unfavorable opinion, Minister of State, I would very much like to hear your feeling about the status accorded to climate refugees. We are still talking, according to estimates, about 250 million people, which is not anecdotal! That the rapporteur has no opinion, either; We're used to it in committee, we're not finding out tonight. But you, Minister of State, have rather used us, including this evening, to express fairly clear opinions, or at least to tell us your direction. Your colleague Nicolas Hulot has a fairly strong feeling about climate refugees. Will this be addressed in the bill that we will be considering next spring?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u583	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u584	Foreigners applying for asylum in our territory cannot work there; They must wait nine months to file an application for this purpose. How is it possible to live on 6,80 euros a day, or 10,20 euros if you are two? How to stay at 5,40 euros a day, since this is the amount allocated by the State to asylum seekers? Without the public generosity and the human and financial dedication of the associations, we would probably see asylum seekers starve or cold on the streets. We therefore hope that they will be given the opportunity to work during the period of review of their files. Unless I am mistaken, this provision would bring our right into line with the asylum package adopted by the European Union in 2013.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u585	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u586	As this amendment did not fall within the scope of the bill, the committee gave an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u587	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u588	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u589	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u590	That the amendment does not fall within the scope of the text is your interpretation, Mr rapporteur. For my part, I think the opposite is true, since the text, according to its very title, deals with the right to asylum. Our argumentary therefore seems to us to be rather coherent and constructed. You could, it is true, have devised a broader text, which is not limited to transposition on the basis of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Council of State. But I'm leaving that point out. I would like the Minister of State to take thirty seconds, one minute thirty or perhaps even two minutes to explain to us his feeling on the issue of climate refugees, which is likely to be the big issue in the years to come. I am sure that he has an opinion on this humanitarian issue in his heart – probably even at the bottom of his heart. Four amendments remain under discussion: this is still four chances of obtaining this opinion tonight. It would be interesting to anticipate a little about our debates next March. If you could reassure us, or even satisfy us, Minister of State, we would sleep better.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u591	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u592	I'll go in the same direction. If the Minister of State does not want to speak tonight, perhaps one of our colleagues in the running Republic Group could give us the answer that has been given in committee on the issue of climate refugees. If COP23 was chaired this year by Fiji, it is not by chance, but because the subject is real. Will we wait for others to do the law and impose it on us, or will we be on the initiative to propose this right? It would not be wrong for the French Parliament to take such an initiative. Although the subject will be discussed next year, at least we could put it on the table and start working on it. It is therefore a bit unfortunate to have no answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u593	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u594	The aim of this amendment is to restore the mandatory nature of a guarantee of the right to appeal, which has been removed for disputes relating to the expulsion of aliens. In principle, the formation of judgements of administrative courts – which judge in particular the legality of the prefect's decisions – consists of at least four judges, one of whom is not involved in the deliberations, therefore does not vote, but presents, independently, the solution that he proposes to adopt on a case. In concrete terms, this public rapporteur gives a second look at a dossier prepared by the other three magistrates. It thus ensures that no aspect of the file has been forgotten, that it has been well prepared and that there is no blind spot. This guarantee has become all the more fundamental since the Council of State is also reasoning not on the basis of the quality of judgements handed down by the courts but on the basis of their quantity. How many times have judges not heard, during their annual assessment interview, their head of jurisdiction explicitly ask them to photocopy or slaughter? This can be summarized by the formula, not denied so far, attributed to the Vice-President of the Council of State, Mr Jean-Marc Sauvé, addressing the administrative courts: "Just judge quickly; We will judge! In short, those who suffer from it are not only the magistrates, forced to make figures, but above all the applicants, whose files are no longer processed in the time necessary for the examination, but in a time forced by an absurd statistical cursor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u595	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u596	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u597	I really do not want many people to read the summary statement of this amendment... I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u598	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u599	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u600	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u601	If it goes on, I'm gonna run out of arguments...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u602	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u603	This amendment is welcome. His summary statement, in fact a bit stingy, has at least the merit of being clear and understandable. In any case, Minister of State, unless you dissolve – or turn to other horizons – we will spend some time together over the next four and a half years. It would therefore be preferable for us to establish good reports from the outset and to answer the questions that we believe are fundamental, namely that of climate refugees. If you don't have an answer yourself, perhaps you could turn to your many counselors sitting behind you. One of them may have a bright idea, if not many, on the issue. Is there an arbitration? What's your thinking on this topic, tomorrow's subject? If we fail to manage the migration issue, while the 250 million refugees who are likely to leave the roads are not there yet, I wonder about our ability to do so in the future. In this respect, it is better to anticipate and prepare than to undergo. I would therefore like to have your opinion as Minister of the Interior, since your colleague Nicolas Hulot has already given us his. I assume that you have discussed the matter with him, since he said he would like to see it included in the next text on the right of asylum.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u604	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u605	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u606	There is a kind of taboo on a clear immigration issue: the French economic system is taking advantage of many foreigners in an irregular situation. Employers hire undocumented workers who are not even paid to the SMIC and do not pay social contributions. In addition to being in a situation of absolute precariousness, these men and women are therefore not entitled to sickness insurance in the event of an accident, even though they work. Such internal social dumping, in France itself, is completely unacceptable. However, the Government allowed it to leave people illegally exploited to take up jobs, which put all those who worked regularly at risk, in accordance with the labour code. In order to put an end to what can be regarded as hypocrisy, which benefits only rogue bosses and is harmful to all workers, we call for the Government to really tackle the problem. The aim of the amendment is therefore to ask for a report to assess the benefits to society and social security of forcing rogue employers to return to regularity by regularizing the undocumented workers they employ. The report would also provide an opportunity to assess the cost of a real integration policy compared to the current policy, given that the fight against illegal immigration costs almost EUR 100 million per year. I think we can do better by protecting all workers more.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u607	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u608	This amendment, as follows, concerning a request for a report, the opinion of the Law Committee, no one will be surprised, is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u609	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u610	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u611	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u612	In the finance bill, some amendments relating to requests for reports were voted on, rapporteur. The La République en marche group has itself requested reports, for example on the GEMAPI law – water management and flood prevention. In my view, therefore, there is no objection in principle to requests for reports. On the other hand – or at the same time, if you prefer – I would like an answer on the issue of climate refugees. Minister of State, the other day, I asked your colleague Gérald Darmanin a number of times about something that bothered me; He did not want to answer me immediately but nevertheless did so after the examination of the text, courteously, for two minutes, or even only one minute thirty. I found it interesting, including politically, for him to bring me some information. Could you please reassure me that we will hear a few words from you this evening about climate refugees? That would be a welcome signal, and I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u613	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u614	This other request for a report, which I hope will not be rejected in principle, concerns the agreements between the European Union and Libya on co-management of migration flows and its direct and indirect links with slavery and sexual exploitation of migrants in Libya. This subject has often been discussed, whether in questions to the Government, in consideration of tonight's amendments or in a CNN report broadcast on 15 November, which has moved us all, in this Assembly as well as beyond. How come we had to wait for a televised report to learn that such a scandal was taking place in a country with which we made agreements for the management of refugees and migration? It still seems strange or even hypocritical to us. We call for the Government to communicate information on this subject to the national representatives in a transparent manner – I think it has – so that we do not fall back into this kind of truly harmful situation. If we could also get a response from the Minister of State on the issue of climate refugees, that would be admirable. If the rapporteur wanted to join him, I would not be against it. And if a colleague from the Republic on the March wanted to give his opinion on climate refugees, it would be a nice evening for all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u615	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u616	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u617	I am doing my job: on this amendment, the committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u618	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u619	[[Laugh. – Applause on several benches of the REM group]] I want to say to Mr Bernalicis that he made the Minister of the Interior suffer a lot tonight, but that, as he knows, the great pains are silent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u620	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u621	What an honor you do to me by recognizing the immense power to make a minister suffer! I didn't know it was on my own, but I learn every day – I'm still young.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u622	It's moving fast!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u623	I didn't want to hurt you but just get an answer about climate refugees. My question is not very complex. Perhaps a colleague from the Republic on the move could also ask the same question as the other time, but this time addressed to the Minister of the Interior, so that we can have some answers to that question. It would be a shame if this measure, to which Minister of State Nicolas Hulot expressed his support, was not included in the next text on asylum policy. It would still be a big deal. I imagine that there is still some consistency in the Government and that, even if Mr Hulot comes from Lille and not Lyon, there is a way for you both to agree on an issue that will probably affect more than 250 million people. It's not a small subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u624	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u625	Mrs Clémentine Autain has the floor for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u626	As I am not a member of the Committee on Laws, like no doubt a number of Members present here, I expected our debate this evening to shed light on the precise content of what we are going to vote for. Finally, I ask a simple question: what is the purpose of this bill, if not to tighten the conditions for the reception of refugees?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u627	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u628	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-12-07-O1089.u629	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Further discussion of the 2017 amending finance bill. The meeting is adjourned.
