ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u1	[[Applause]] I should like to inform the Assembly that Mr Bruno Le Maire, Mr Stéphane Travert, Ms Annick Girardin, Mr Christophe Castaner, Mr Mounir Mahjoubi, Ms Brune Poirson, Ms Geneviève Darrieussecq and Mr Benjamin Griveaux, appointed members of the Government by decree of 21 June 2017, were replaced respectively by Ms Séverine Gipson, Mr Grégory Galbadon, Mr Stéphane Claireaux, Ms Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel, Ms Delphine O, Mr Adrien Morenas, Mr Fabien Lainé and Ms Élise Fajgeles.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u2	The next item is the discussion, after the expedited procedure has begun, of the bill, adopted by the Senate, on trust in public life (No. 98, 106, 102) and of the organic bill, adopted by the Senate, on trust in public life (No. 99, 105, 103). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u3	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u4	Mr President, the chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on Laws, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, trust is not decreed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u5	She deserves it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u6	Trust is earned, it is maintained. It is born and developed mainly because of the fulfilment of commitments. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM group. – "Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] The two texts before you, ladies and gentlemen, tabled by my predecessor, Mr François Bayrou,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u7	You will greet him from us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u8	All I'm saying here is a reality! These two texts reflect a strong commitment to the French by the President of the Republic to empower political life and to renew national representation. Today, the Government proposes that you honour this commitment through a reform that I believe is expected by all our fellow citizens. This reform meets a requirement that is by no means circumstantial, even if it takes new forms that are more acute than before. The requirement of transparency, probity and exemplaryness of elected officials stems from a social, political and ethical necessity which finds its translation in a text adopted for a long time within the French Republic, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen of 1789, article 15 of which specifies that "The Society has the right to ask account to any Public Agent of its administration". This principle of responsibility, which is the foundation of our democracy, has structured our entire political history; However, in recent years, new demands have emerged, reflecting a change in the relationship to power, politics and representation. Society is asking each of us to be more transparent, rigorous and ethical, and sometimes even to renew our practices, which are being re-examined. Even yesterday, by tradition or custom, it was agreed to cover with a more or less thick veil small compromises with ethical requirements. Our fellow citizens themselves, moreover, were not always shocked by practices that seem intolerable to them today. We can regret, perhaps, this past era. It is also possible to accommodate, of course, certain developments. Above all, we can call for true evolutions and innovations in this ethical field. In this and other areas, we are bound by the will of the citizens. It must naturally be translated into the rule of law, into the principles of representative democracy and in accordance with the founding principle of our Republic, that of the separation of powers. The legislator has responded to these new requirements by adopting several pieces of legislation on transparency and the fight against corruption in 2013 and 2016. From this point of view, we must pay tribute to him, especially since Parliament has taken some initiatives on its part. As of 2011, your assembly, ladies and gentlemen, has had a code of ethics and an ethics officer, and these measures have announced others. Both assemblies have already taken stock of the ethical issue and made great progress. However, there is still work to restore the necessary trust that citizens bring to their representatives. This is the ambition of this reform, which in no way claims to be moralizing. In fact, you will never hear me use this term, because the provisions that are submitted to you are in no way stigmatizing. Morality is not the right, but a contingent concept that can change over time. But here we aim to draw up a body of accepted, shared rules based on a common republican ethic. In essence, the will of the Government is very simple. We want to set clearer rules, both for elected officials and for all political leaders. These rules will undoubtedly be the best guarantee for each of them. This will provide us with the necessary benchmarks and a legal and ethical framework for dealing with sometimes very complex situations. Our project is therefore neither punitive nor stigmatizing nor vindictive. It consists in ensuring that elected officials, who demonstrate their overwhelming commitment, honesty and rigour on a daily basis, are no longer nailed to the pilori because of the behaviour of a few. This is the act of trust that we propose to you. It is structured around four axes. The first axis makes it possible to impose more severe penalties on those who fail to comply with the requirements of probity by prohibiting them from taking up elective functions. The second helps to prevent conflicts of interest and to put an end to them. The third proposes to break with practices that are no longer accepted by citizens. Finally, the final focus of these two bills is to strengthen control over party accounts while providing them and candidates with easier access to funding than before. These are the four axes that I shall now present to you, ladies and gentlemen, before we give way to the debate. The first is therefore to impose more severe penalties on those who fail to comply with the requirements of probity and to prevent them from taking up elected office. The texts first create a penalty of ineligibility for breach of probity. This is one of their most important points: the creation of a complementary penalty of ineligibility for anyone who fails to meet the requirements of probity. The Government proposes that the criminal courts should be obliged to issue such a sentence, unless otherwise specifically justified. Thus, any person who has demonstrated that he or she does not fulfil the conditions of dignity essential to the exercise of a mandate would, as a matter of principle, be excluded from elected office. Everyone here knows that a debate has been opened on this issue. The Law Commission wanted to replace this mechanism with a mechanism which the Government had abandoned on grounds of constitutionality. By automatically prohibiting, without a court ruling, those who do not have a blank criminal record – the famous B2 – from running for election, the principle of the necessity of the penalties guaranteed by article 8 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789 and the principle of the individualization of the penalties resulting therefrom are infringed. After an in-depth discussion and reflection on this point, the La République en marche group took an initiative which I welcome. This will allow us to agree on a text that combines realism, efficiency and respect for constitutional principles. In a close but different register, the Law Commission has adopted an amendment allowing the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to check whether a person who is in a hurry to enter the Government has a blank criminal record.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u9	Good luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u10	The Government is in favour of this measure and will simply propose a rewrite of the scheme in order to ensure its full constitutionality. Again on this point of probity, the text makes it possible to prohibit parliamentarians who do not justify having met their tax obligations from remaining in office. A tax certificate will be issued to the Member of Parliament and the Ethics Officer of the Assembly, as your Law Committee has rightly requested. This statement will indicate whether or not the parliamentarian has complied with his or her tax obligations. The latter will then be obliged, like any citizen, to comply with these obligations. In the event of a refusal, the Bureau of the Assembly shall refer the matter to the Constitutional Council, which may issue the resignation and ineligibility of the parliamentarian. These ineligibility provisions, ladies and gentlemen, are particularly stringent. They are linked with new rules aimed at preventing and sanctioning conflicts of interest, while preserving the most valuable good for elected officials: their independence. This is the second axis of the texts proposed to you: to prevent conflicts of interest and to put an end to them. First of all, and these are important provisions, the transparency obligations imposed on the President of the Republic and the candidates for the presidency of the Republic are strengthened. Each citizen will be able to judge the evolution of the heritage of the Head of State between the beginning and the end of his term of office, thanks to a notice published by the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life – HATVP. The Senate added a provision requiring presidential candidates to declare their interests and activities, which was not the case until now. The Government is in favour of this. Furthermore, the texts propose a better definition of the concept of conflict of interest for parliamentarians. The Government, in fact, is concerned not to put parliamentarians who exercise other responsibilities – I am thinking in particular of the elective functions which may lead them to assume another public interest, for example of a local nature – in the recurrent impossibility of participating in the work of Parliament. Your Law Commission made another choice, considering that the confrontation of public interests could constitute a conflict of interest. The Government considered that the definition it originally proposed was likely to better safeguard the rights of parliamentarians, while providing a rigorous framework to prevent conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u11	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u12	We will therefore have to open a debate on this point, which is quite legitimate. But whatever definition you choose, it will be up to each assembly to clarify the internal rules for the prevention and treatment of conflict of interest situations. One of the important points of the texts submitted to you is the creation of a public register of deportations. Similarly, the role of the ethics officer, whom the rapporteur wishes to strengthen, will be essential in this regard. Moreover, the incompatibilities relating to advisory activities will be extended and strengthened. At present, there is only the impossibility for a parliamentarian to start an advisory activity during his or her term of office. This prohibition does not apply to regulated professions, such as lawyers. This provision appeared to be very inadequate in the Government, due to the potential conflicts of interest associated with the exercise of this activity. The device is therefore completed on several axes. First of all, a temporal axis, since a parliamentarian will not be able to start carrying out these activities during his term of office and will have to stop those beginning within the 12 months preceding the beginning of his term of office. A second focus is on the scope of the functions performed, since the derogation that applies today for the regulated professions is removed. Finally, the last axis relates to the nature of the functions performed. The mechanism proposed by the Government for the supervision of advisory activities ensures a reconciliation between the independence of elected officials, the prevention of the risk of conflict of interest and the freedom to undertake, which must be recognized to every parliamentarian as it is to every citizen. The provisions provided for should help to avoid the constitutional pitfalls highlighted by the Constitutional Council in its decision of 9 October 2013, which had then censored an over-general prohibition imposed by the text under its control. I would add, and it is very important, that it is not a question of prohibiting parliamentarians from engaging in other professional activities compatible with their mandate. If we did – but that is not our intention – we would face constitutional censorship. The third axis of the projects submitted to you aims to put an end to practices which were accepted yesterday, but which are no longer accepted today. These provisions relate to family employment, the representative allowance for mandate expenses – IRFM – and the parliamentary reserve. I will not go back to the conditions under which the issue of family employment emerged. The Government proposed to put an end to this practice, both for members of the Government and for local parliamentarians and executives. This practice no longer seems to be tolerable today: it is a social fact that must be taken into account. Any step backwards in this area would be very badly perceived by our fellow citizens. The Law Commission has readjusted the scope of the persons concerned by this ban, restricting a little the dimension of the family circle. The Government sees no obstacle to this, as the ethical arrangements of your assembly take over beyond the family circle envisaged in the event of conflicts of interest. At the same time, the Senate and your Law Committee have taken good initiatives to advance the general situation of parliamentary collaborators, whose work with you is both considerable and indispensable. This is an excellent thing and the Government will support these developments. I'm coming to the IRFM. In the interests of transparency regarding the expenses incurred by parliamentarians in the exercise of their mandate, the Government had provided for the termination of the allowance, which was replaced by reimbursement of the costs on a real basis and on the basis of evidence. There was a strong dialogue on this subject, first with the Senate and then with your law commission. The mechanism adopted by the Law Committee, specifying the one adopted by the Senate, seems to me to be rigorous and operational, as the President of the National Assembly wished. Clear lines will therefore be drawn to determine what is or does not fall within the scope of the mandate costs. Monitoring mechanisms will be organized. The whole process, and we will of course come back to its details, will be carried out with respect for the autonomy of the assemblies and with the intervention of the deontologist. The Government welcomes the work that has been carried out on this very sensitive issue. Finally, the draft organic law also proposes to put an end to the current practice of the parliamentary reserve. This subject, which is very much discussed, raises many questions, both among members of the House of Commons and among senators. To address this sensitive issue, we must go back to the few simple principles that led the Government to propose the deletion of this reservation. [[Applause on several benches in the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] This question seems to me to refer to the broader question of the role of Parliament and the report of parliamentarians in the territory in which they are elected. I recall here that if parliamentarians are elected in a constituency, they are not elected in their constituency, but in the entire nation!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u13	A Member of Parliament is anchored in his territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u14	Colleagues, how do you think you will be re-elected in five years' time?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u15	The people are the people! Not the people of a constituency!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u16	Mrs. Keeper of the Seals only has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u17	In addition, article 24 of the Constitution sets out precisely the tasks of the assemblies, which number three: to vote on the laws, to monitor the action of the Government and to evaluate public policies. The Constitution does not provide for parliamentarians to have a budgetary allocation that they would allocate to finance specific actions. Moreover, its Article 40 translates a fairly close idea by prohibiting parliamentary initiatives involving expenditure on public funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u18	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u19	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR and LC groups]] The practice of the reservation is the result of a convention between the Government and parliamentarians to circumvent the prohibition provided for in article 40. This is, in any case, what initially distinguishes it from the ministerial reserve, the amount of which is very modest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u20	But let's protect it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u21	And the parallelism of forms?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u22	We will come back to that in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u23	To keep it...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u24	I hear the arguments of those who wish to maintain the parliamentary reserve: we will also discuss them when we consider Article 9. But clearly, the Government believes that this practice must be broken, and in this it has been followed by your Law Commission. The final focus of the reforms proposed to you strengthens the controls on the accounts of political parties, while providing them and candidates with easier access to financing. These provisions make it possible to give effect to the demand for pluralism in political life. Political parties are now largely dependent on public funding. However, the rules that apply to them do not provide full guarantees against abuse or abuse. They are, moreover, quite unfavorable to the renewal of political life and pluralism. It is therefore proposed to strengthen the accounts of political parties and electoral campaigns, in accordance with the provisions of article 4 of the Constitution, according to which political parties form and operate freely. In this sense, four axes are proposed. First, the party's financial agent will collect all the resources received by the party and not just the donations. Political parties will also have to keep an account, according to a regulation established by the Accounting Standards Authority. Second, the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns will be better supervised in relation to loans from natural persons, in order to avoid disguised donations. In return, and this is the third point, access to funding by candidates and political parties will be improved through the intervention of a credit mediator. Finally, the Government would like to see the creation of a permanent structure, or financing mechanism, the "bank of democracy", in order to remedy the shortcomings of private bank financing. On this point, the Law Commission adopted the reinstatement amendment proposed by the Government. Mr President, the rapporteur, the draftsman of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I have presented to you in broad terms the general economy of this reform to which the Government is strongly committed. Your Committee on Laws has adopted a number of amendments that improve the readability of these two texts while maintaining their consistency. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] In this regard, I would like to acknowledge the considerable, difficult and remarkable work done by Mrs Yaël Braun-Pivet, your rapporteur. I would also like to welcome the work of your Committee on Finance, under the responsibility of its rapporteur-general, Mr Joël Giraud, who has dealt with some of the key points of our two texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u25	He's a reserve champion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u26	All the provisions that the Government submits for your consideration, as amended by you, intend to serve democracy by providing it with greater transparency, justice and ethics. As you know, these measures will be complemented by the constitutional reform outlined by the President of the Republic during his speech at the Versailles Congress on 3 July. This is a first founding act, inaugural, essential, of this desire to restore a bond of trust between the French and their elected representatives. We must therefore find ourselves, it seems to me, around strong, realistic, legible and coherent proposals that respond to the need for transparency and the prevention of conflicts of interest, while respecting parliamentary action and the constitutional principle of separation of powers. This is the ambitious path that the Government proposes to take by endorsing the word of Beaumarchais, "Everything that inspires trust, cements esteem, and increases good opinion". [[Applause on the benches of the REM, MODEM and LC groups]] I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, an excellent job.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u27	I call Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairperson and Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u28	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the rapporteur-general and draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, 77% of the French would judge corrupt parliamentarians, and 72% of them would pass a similar judgment on the executive power. These were, at the end of 2016, the conclusions of the annual survey conducted by Transparency International France on the perception of corruption in France. Opinion studies follow each other and, unfortunately, they are similar. What can we do collectively to change the perception of our fellow citizens of their political class?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u29	Search for the corrupters!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u30	To what extent can we, individually and collectively, restore confidence? Because through trust, democracy is at stake. During our lengthy debates in committee, some commissioners referred to virtue, that celebrated by the founding Fathers of the Republic, who had replaced the old nobility of birth with the nobility of republican commitment, that of act and self-denial.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u31	[[Smile]] We can be both, can't we, Rugy's gentleman?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u32	Does that make you laugh at virtue in front of you?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u33	That is also what these texts speak of. Our fellow citizens doubt the probity of the political leaders, while more than 600,000 elected representatives in our country demonstrate their unselfish dedication to the common interest, public affairs, the affairs of the city, the well-being of all and the values that unite us. It is up to us, collectively, to live up to the immense expectations of the citizens who have recently given us their votes. This trust obliges us and we owe it to them. For a large part of us, elected for the first time, these texts have a particular symbolic dimension. They reflect the proposals we put forward during the campaign, they are at the heart of our political commitment. However, there is a need for humility: these texts are part of a lengthy legislative process. Many laws, aimed at making our democracy more virtuous, have already been adopted in the past. Others are yet to come. I am thinking in particular of the constitutional review that we will soon have to deal with. The Government hoped that both bills would be submitted to Parliament from the beginning of the legislature, honouring an important commitment made by the President of the Republic during his election campaign. The flagship provisions of these two texts meet the expectations of our citizens and must quickly find place in our positive law. This rapidity is already a strong political response because no delay would seem to have been forgiven us. We have conducted a very large number of hearings. In the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and under the excellent chairmanship of Stéphane Mazars, we took the time necessary for the discussion, which lasted almost seventeen hours. We have been attentive to the contributions of civil society actors, in particular through a citizen consultation on a participatory platform. The texts submitted by the Government were politically and legally consistent and readable. The Senate has chosen to expand their scope. For our part, we considered it preferable to refine the original device. The legislation finally adopted by the Law Commission reflects this course of action. First of all, they aim to increase guarantees of probity in the exercise of elected office. They also tend to change the conditions for the exercise of the parliamentary mandate in order to make them more transparent and more in line with the principles of the functioning of a modern democracy. Finally, they include a part relating to the financing of political life. Bringing new guarantees of probity is the first issue in these texts. In order to better prevent conflicts of interest, it is planned to extend the scope of incompatibilities but also to improve their treatment conditions. The very concept of conflict of interest is now enshrined in the Ordinance of 17 November 1958 on the functioning of parliamentary assemblies, and not only in their respective regulations. The provisions of the Ordinance are also amended to provide for the establishment of a register of deportations within each of the two chambers. Monitoring of the regularity of the tax situation of national and European parliamentarians as well as members of the Government is also being strengthened. The legislation introduces new sanctions in the event of a breach of probity. I believe that there is a general consensus on this point. The commission has, however, replaced the supplementary penalty scheme presented by the Government with a requirement that certain statements of conviction should not be included in Bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record. If this provision has the merit of being clear, it may present a risk of unconstitutionality that we can discuss again in the course of the debate. The commission returned, at the initiative of the Government, to a provision introduced by the Senate aimed at circumscribing the offence of illegal taking of interest and which seemed to us to be contrary to the very spirit of these bills. Changing the conditions for the exercise of the parliamentary mandate in order to make them more transparent is the second issue in these texts. As such, the mechanism of the parliamentary reserve, which has so far been based on individual and discretionary grant award decisions, is being removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u34	There was a check.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u35	At the same time, we informed the Government of our willingness to set up a different system for financing investment projects by local communities and associations, so that they would not be penalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u36	The Government has closed the door.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u37	Similarly, we, like honourable senators, have agreed on the principle of abolishing the representative allowance for mandate expenses. The traceability, the control of the expenses incurred by parliamentarians in carrying out their mandate, and the certification of their accounts, must lead to the exclusion of any suspicion of improper use of these funds. The Bureau of each of the Assemblies is thus invited to redefine the arrangements for the payment of these costs and to decide on the list of eligible costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u38	When the office is pluralistic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u39	I am pleased that, on this point, we have not been far from getting unanimity in committee. Another important step has been the introduction of a system to supervise the employment of employees of ministers, parliamentarians and local elected officials, which is based on the outright prohibition of family employment for members of the close family, under penalty of criminal and financial punishment, and a transparency mechanism covering all other cases. At the same time, and as a result of the Senate, we have outlined the status of parliamentary collaborators and clarified their terms and conditions of dismissal by making them more protective. This is an important message of recognition that Parliament sends to those who work in the shadows of members of Parliament and senators. They have been unfairly pointed out in recent months when they were already suffering from a high degree of insecurity. Finally, the Government's project contains a component on the financing of political life to which the Commission has subscribed. It sets out new supervisory measures and establishes the principle of the creation of an ombudsman for the financing of candidates and political parties. At the same time, it creates the conditions for the establishment of a democratic bank, designed in particular to facilitate access to credit for candidates. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, allow me to thank all the Members who took part in our work, during the hearings and in committee. I thank the opposition in all its components. May I also be allowed to thank the majority and to have a special thought for Naïma Moutchou and Paula Forteza, to whom I repeat all my trust, gratitude and friendship. But if we are debating these texts today, it is also thanks to the remarkable work, both in its quality and in its quantity, of the directors and all the agents of the commission. They worked without counting their hours and I thank them for that. The Law Commission has done a good job. Bringing her back on her behalf is an honour, just like presiding over her. In this regard, I welcome those who presided over him before me, with particular thought for Mrs Catherine Tasca, who was the first woman to hold this office, and for Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann, who is very competent and whose presence I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u40	What about Jean-Jacques Urvoas? What about Dominique Raimbourg?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u41	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LC group]] I welcome the forthcoming debates in this House. I hope that they will reach a broad consensus on these two laws and that they will help us to weave together the sons of trust with our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u42	Mr Joël Giraud, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u43	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Finance has therefore taken up four articles of the draft organic and ordinary law on confidence in public life, dealing with matters related to its competence. These are, first of all, articles 1 ter and 12 of the ordinary bill. While the first relates to what it is agreed to call the "Bercy Lock" caricaturally, article 12 seeks to empower the Government to create a "Democracy Bank" by order. These are also articles 9 and 13 of the draft organic law concerning the parliamentary reservation. Let's start with article 1 ter of the ordinary bill, introduced by the Senate before being deleted by the Assembly's Law Committee last week. The purpose of this article was to remove Bercy's lock, i.e. the subordination of the initiation of criminal proceedings in respect of tax evasion to a prior complaint from the tax administration. It thus introduced an exception to the principle by allowing the judge to self-register from a related tax offence to other offences being prosecuted. This debate comes back regularly. Our assembly has consistently voted in favour of maintaining Bercy's monopoly, thus the status quo, notably in 2013 and twice in 2016. The Committee on Laws adopted the same position last week by deleting Article 1b, by a short majority it is true. However, we can understand the logic behind this article: to give the judge greater freedom of action and to better punish the most serious tax frauds for all categories of taxpayers. However, we must carefully assess the consequences of questioning the current system, in particular in terms of the collection of fines and tax increases and the equal treatment of taxpayers. That is why I have proposed to the Committee on Finance that the subject should be deepened, beyond the positions of principle, in order to be able to resolve this debate calmly and with knowledge of the facts. An information report given to two co-rapporteurs will inform us, before the debate on the amending finance law, of the measures that could be taken to correct this system.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u44	We've been hearing this for years!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u45	At this stage, the continuation of the deletion of Article 1b seems to me to be a good policy. I'm going to the storeroom. This subject is very controversial...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u46	You're a specialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u47	... and this is natural because it raises two crucial questions: on the one hand, that of our understanding of our mandate and our relationship with the territories; on the other hand, that of the adequacy of resources to the missions of local actors. I have proposed three principles to guide our thinking: more transparency, less clientelism and more solidarity. In the name of transparency, the committee suggests, in consultation with the Chair of the Law Committee, to improve the mechanism proposed by the Senate, in two directions: first, with the publication of a provisional list of proposed grants, allowing all parliamentarians and citizens to learn about it before the vote, during the budgetary debates, on the overall amount of the new allocation to support local investment; then downstream, with a better account of the use of appropriations. The Commission has also worked on targeting beneficiaries and projects eligible for these grants. The desire not to give rise to the suspicion of clientelism, whether founded or unfounded, has led us to endorse the clear solution provided for in the text of the Government and the Law Commission: the abolition of the practice, even renewed, of the parliamentary reservation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u48	What about the ministerial reserve?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u49	The third principle – greater solidarity – will guide our work in reviewing the finance bill. This is the relevant framework for reallocating the reserve appropriations, amounting to EUR 146 million in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u50	Promises, promises!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u51	Some may find it in vain or indecent to question the use of 146 million when communities are asked to contribute several billion dollars in public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u52	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u53	However, it is our responsibility to define the best possible allocation of these appropriations. The Law Committee has removed article 15 of the ordinary bill, which increased the role of parliamentarians in DETR's departmental commissions – the provision of equipment for rural territories – on the grounds that the latter are already represented there and that it is not their responsibility to replace local elected officials in the allocation of local grants. In any event, we need to translate our national vision of territorial balance into community staffing criteria. I propose the following lines of work. First, to create a local solidarity fund for municipalities and associations, targeting communities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, as is the case for the DETR; This allocation will have to be linked with the reflection on the balance between rural and urban municipalities in terms of overall operating allocations. [[Applause on several benches of the REM, MODEM and LR groups]] Next, allocate an amount equivalent to the appropriations for parliamentary and ministerial reserves. I insist on this point: it would not be honest to advocate transparency and then the abolition of the parliamentary reserve by leaving the ministerial reserve in total opacity. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u55	If we delete one, we remove the other!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u56	It's the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u57	A collective departmental body, which should be open to parliamentarians, will be responsible for selecting projects that can benefit from it. And part of this allocation will have to be reserved for support for associative life. Finally, with regard to the democratic bank, we wished to maintain the removal of the authorization requested by the Government, which the Law Commission has chosen to reinstate. The Finance Committee felt that the mechanism provided for in the draft law to improve political financing was already very comprehensive, and that the proposed new structure could duplicate the political financing ombudsman. [[Applause on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It also seemed to us better to wait for the findings of the mission that you entrusted, Minister, to the General Inspection of Finance and the General Inspection of Administration, in order to be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u58	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to reject the ordinary bill, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u59	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "If you want to destroy the avarice, start by destroying the luxury that is the source of it": these words of Cicero, spoken two thousand years ago, resonate particularly in our ears...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u60	Cicero was very rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u61	... because they are intimately echoing the contemporary reality of our country and, more broadly, of the world. We live in a deeply unequal society. Money alone is synonymous with social success. A person's value is now valued on the basis of his or her own income or wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u62	We're not all Macrons!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u63	Never have the gapes of fortune been so great. The rich are always richer, the poor, always poorer. The gap continues to grow: the wealth of the richest 1 per cent has surpassed that of the poorest 50 per cent. In 20 years, the incomes of the richest have grown 182 times faster than those of the poorest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u64	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u65	These hyper-rich people see their income and wealth fly away. Differences in wealth are growing exponentially. But what do they do with their wealth? Is it ecologically or socially useful? Let us take one example to judge: the "war of yachts". It started in 1997 when billionaire Leslie Wexner inaugurated his 96-metre-long yacht, 33 more than his main rival. Today, there is a real competition on water. To maintain its position, we must be prepared to spend 330 million euros and compete with imagination in the field of interior equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u66	This isn't about anyone here!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u67	[[Exclaims on the REM, MODEM and LR panels]] In this game, billionaire Paul Allen is relatively gifted: he owns a 126-metre-long yacht, equipped with a basketball field, a heliport, a cinema room and a submarine in the bilge.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u68	This is not about Members!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u69	It's corrupting money!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u70	Only Mr Lachaud has the floor. Go on, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u71	The money is no longer hidden, you have to show it. Thorstein Veblen, an economist of the 19th century, rightly explained that the possession of wealth is a means of differentiation. It is not intended to meet a material need – which is easily assumed – but to confer a provocative distinction, which means showing signs of a higher status.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u72	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u73	It's talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u74	This feeds an ostentatious consumption and widespread waste. Because what's left to buy after the yachts I just described? Another thing, anything, because satiety knows no limit in a sumptuous competition. Beyond social indecency, these behaviours pose a problem for the very survival of our ecosystem. Indeed, we are not in a neutral period of humanity: its very existence is threatened because we use more resources each year than our planet produces. The human ecosystem must be preserved. A bifurcation of our model of society is essential to ensure our survival. Yet this predatory and greedy ruling class, the oligarchy, is an obstacle on this path. No project, no ideal guides it. In the 19th century, the exploitation of the proletariat was justified by the feeling of embodying scientific progress or the humanistic ideals of the Enlightenment. After the war, freedom had to be defended against the totalitarian counter-model. But today, at the time of the end of history, capitalist ideology knows nothing but self-celebrate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u75	What about Stalin's time?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u76	Relying on the words of Mrs Thatcher, the oligarchy, which extends its power in all areas, claims that there is no alternative: to end injustice, it is enough to increase the wealth of the rich more and more. This so-called economic utility of the oligarchy serves only its own reproduction. The number of the poor and the inequalities are clear evidence of this. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Yet, the way of life of these hyper-rich people is set up as a model for society, even though it contributes to its destruction. President Macron, then minister of the so-called enemy of finance, François Hollande, summarized this injunction in a illuminating sentence: "You need young French people who want to become billionaires". This sentence is in line with President Sarkozy, the President of the Rolex,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u77	What about Chavez?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u78	[[Exclaims on the REM, MODEM and LR panels]] ...whose counselor claimed that if, at the age of 50, you didn't own a Rolex, you missed your life. Money, money is the horizon that the leaders of this country set for our youth!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u79	What about Lula?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u80	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This is where the corruption of this country comes from! These are the behaviours that must be fought! The greatest corrupter is in power, it's king money!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u81	The property is theft.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u82	When one attacks an evil, one has to tear off its roots, otherwise it pushes back. And yet, this struggle, Madam Keeper of the Seals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u83	It's the final fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u84	...there is absolutely no mention of this in this bill. Worse, the advances that senators had dared to bring against the Government's opinion – the fools! – have been systematically deleted at the request of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u85	On this point, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u86	This bill is absolutely not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u87	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u88	Perhaps because it is a law of moralization, although you do not accept that term, minister. Indeed, moralization consists in bringing actions into line with certain principles. But the definition of morality is collective, and blurred: moral is what is socially acceptable. But society accepts many things, provided that it is used to them and considers them normal. And in our society, it's normal to get rich too much. Worse still, morals would be a personal appreciation of what is socially acceptable. Morality ends up being my moral, which I think is moral to do. Thus, we understand better the failure of all those who wanted to moralize capitalism. The moralization law aims to make what is not acceptable at this time, either by limiting certain practices or by strengthening certain controls to bring practices into line with the expectations of as many people as possible. These are changes dictated by the expectations of a society and not by what should be done. It is more a matter of avoiding business – I do not want to go back – than of making public life conform to what it should be. However, as the rapporteur noted, virtue is an individual quality, not a collective principle. Etymologically, it means excellence or fact for one thing to be perfectly consistent with what it should be. It is up to the institutions to provide a framework within which practices are virtuous. Without this binding framework, everything is based on personal appreciation. So we need a real law of republican virtue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If you want to fight corruption effectively, corrupters must be prosecuted!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u91	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u92	How can we fight against the control of oligarchy over our society? First of all, by reducing wage differentials.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u93	You're enjoying the rostrum, but that's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u94	Already in 2000, one of the great thinkers of American management, Peter Drucker, warned: "Thirty years ago, the multiplicative factor between the average wage and the highest wage of a company was 20. Now we're about 200. It's extremely pernicious. Banker J.P. Morgan had set as a rule that top management should not have a salary that exceeds 20 times that of an average employee. That rule was very wise. There is now an inordinate attention to income and wealth. That's what the American management thinkers said in 2000.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u95	There's no connection to the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u96	But yes, there is a connection, but you refuse to see it! Today, we are no longer there. There were 16.8 million for Olivier Brandicourt, President and CEO of Sanofi, in 2015. In your opinion, how many years of SMIC does it represent? A thousand two hundred! Two hundred years of SMIC! If only that was an exception... But no, it is a common practice: the average remuneration of the employers of the 120 largest French companies is 3.5 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u97	They're not parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u98	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That of the bosses of CAC 40 is 5 million. How can the French, whose median income, some of them here have forgotten, be 1700 euros a month, trust – this is the title chosen for this bill – in a society that allows such income gaps? That's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u99	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u100	There must be a maximum wage gap of 1 to 20 in companies. Any big boss who wants to raise his salary will have to increase all the others. This is a virtuous measure for the company, for the economy, and for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u102	And yet, Madam Keeper of the Seals, none of this in your bill! If at least these hyper-riches paid their taxes in France! But no: tax havens welcome them with open arms; They run there to protect their fortunes because the taxation of estates, fortunes and other assets is reduced to the congruous portion. It's not even necessary to go to the end of the world. Tax havens are at our doorstep, within the European Union itself. Tax evasion, optimisation for the less reckless or the rainiest, are also part of the rules of good management. Corporate tax evasion costs at least $100 billion a year to poor countries, according to the OXFAM association. With this amount, the 124 million out-of-school children could benefit from education. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] Worse, these tax havens are a useful way of putting pressure on governments to lower taxes on the rich. You know, ladies and gentlemen, this antiphony, according to which if we tax them, the rich will leave. Well, let them go! They are useless, those who do not even want to contribute to the national effort. And by the way, if they leave, we'll be able to sue them. Because it is necessary to introduce a differentiated tax: every citizen will have to pay the tax the differential between what he would have paid in France and what he paid in his country of residence. That is another measure we are proposing. Our inspiration? North Korea, Republican gentlemen? Not even: the United States of America, which has been applying such legislation for years, without their rich having fled! In France, this legislation would have an immediate consequence: to put an end to the 90 billion a year of tax evasion. Do you know what that means? One and a half times the national education budget, at a time when the Minister of Public Finance is garging himself to cut 4.5 billion in public finances! And what about the decline in student housing allowances, the increase in the CSG for pensioners? Not all students live on 1000 euros a month as our president did! All for what? For the good of France and the French, the poorest and middle classes? That's nenni! To finance the reduction of the tax on big fortunes. It can be seen that the rich have been well understood and served by the Government. Instead of replicating solutions that do not work, it would be better to fight tax fraud. That is a useful and simple proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u104	And in order to promote this struggle, what would be better than to blow up Bercy's lock, this tradition worthy of the Ancien Régime, which creates a separate jurisdiction and prevents the judiciary from initiating criminal proceedings in case of tax evasion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u105	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u106	Yet, Madam Keeper of the Seals, there is none of this in your law. Worse: You asked your majority to delete the Senate amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u107	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u108	For such practices to unfold in society, the influence of the oligarchy must extend to the high administration. Slippers and conflicts of interest are therefore practices that must be addressed. Slippers: The term originally applied to polytechnicians who preferred to go to the private – the slipper – rather than to the public service – the boot. Today, however, many of them are at the boot of finance and oligarchy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u110	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u111	[["But no! He quit! on the benches of the REM group.– "And the Prime Minister! » on the benches of the LR group]] And that's even more true in large bodies: 75% of finance inspectors slip into their careers, like President Macron. Their wages are multiplied by ten or more. Before that, you had to choose between power and money. Today, we can have both in a very short time. That's a mix of genres that don't trust. Indeed, there are many conflicts of interest, as shown by the various examples given to us. [["So what? » on the benches of the REM group]] About ten of the Dutch president's advisers have thus left in private during his term of office. Julien Pouget, economic advisor, left to work for Total. Xavier Piechaczyk, Transport and Environment Advisor, joining the RTE Executive Board – Electricity Transmission Network. David Kessler, former Culture and Communication Advisor, went to work for Orange Studio. Benoît Loutrel, ARCEP number two, recruited by Google France. But it is the banking sector that holds the palm of slippers, hence conflict of interest. The examples are legion. Let us mention only the most explicit ones, such as David Azema, Managing Director of the State Equity Agency, recruited by one of the largest US banks, Merrill Lynch, or Pierre Mariani, CEO of Nicolas Sarkozy on the budget before joining BNP Paribas and taking over the management of Dexia Bank. One of the most emblematic and scandalous examples is that of former Treasury Director and Director General of Public Finance Bruno Bézard, recruited by a Franco-Chinese investment fund, Cathay Capital, when he was aware of the situation of all French companies in which the State had stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u112	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u113	The chair of the Ethics Commission himself explained that the law was complicated and that it was necessary to legislate to clarify matters. What can be said about the backwardness of these civil servants who return to the public service after having gone through the private sector, therefore having established very close contacts with the companies whose business they have to regulate – or not –? One can mention Nicolas Namias, passed by the Treasury, Banque populaire Caisse d'savings, and then became advisor to Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault. Its complacency at the time of the drafting of the bank separation law of 2013, which had an impact on only 0.5% of the activities of BNP Paribas and Natixis, raises questions, as it was recruited a year later to the strategic management of Natixis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u114	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u115	In the end, can we be sure that he defends the general interest, as any good official must do? The former secretary of the Finance Watch association uses a well-known expression on this subject: according to him, we still have a little leprechaun in the back of his brain, which tells you that it may not be very clever to go against the wishes of the banking sector, in case... That's what an official of the General Inspectorate of Finance and the great bodies of the State says! It has to stop! In order to prevent any potential conflict of interest situations and to ensure full engagement in the service of the State and the general interest of civil servants, private passage for counselling activities should not take place before a waiting period. This was the case before 2007.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u116	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u117	The Senate had proposed to restore this deadline, a wise step. You've decided otherwise. Senior officials should be prohibited from slipping before fulfilling their 10-year obligations in the service of the State. Under such a measure, Edouard Philippe could not have joined AREVA only seven years after he had left the ENA. In the end, there is nothing in this text to combat conflicts of interest and slippers.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u118	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u119	Finally, to help restore confidence in public action, the French must have confidence in the press! That's not the case. The Kantar Institute's annual survey for the daily La Croix, dating back to February 2017, reveals an increased deterioration in relations between French and news media: 52% trust the information they listen to on the radio, 41% trust the information they listen to on television. The concentration of the media in a few major industrial groups is a real step backwards for their independence from the powers of money and private interests: 80% of the media are in the hands of nine billionaires!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u120	Where is democracy?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u121	In total, almost 20 people hold almost all media outlets. And by the way, how many of them voted for President Macron? The mercantilization of the media is a transformation that has never been achieved in our country. From now on, the media system is organized with a view to increasing advertising profits. According to this short-sighted financial logic, media owners generalize to employees management methods that are totally unrelated to those that have always prevailed in this environment. Instead of horizontal peer-to-peer management, they set up managing directors and editorial directors to implement the objectives of restructuring and editorial guidance. The editorialists follow each other to repeat to us morning, noon and evening that there is no alternative to the dismantling of the labour code and public services or the lowering of the retirement age. Successive political powers have given up regulating this sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u122	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u123	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] However, one could propose the election of the president of France Télévisions and Radio France rather than his appointment, a limitation of the concentration of the media in the hands of a few or the establishment of real powers for the editorial staff to the detriment of the owners. Solutions exist. Yet, Madam Keeper of the Seals, there is nothing in this law to regulate the press sector and help restore confidence in public action. [["Ah! Finally!» on the benches of the REM group]] But then, what is the purpose of the text that you submit to us? That's a real question! If you have not seen the report with the text, ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – "Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] The aim of this text is to regulate the actions of elected representatives, in particular parliamentarians, and, on the margins only, those of the executive. Why remove the parliamentary reservation but not touch that of the Government or the President? Either the system is harmful and all reserves are removed; either it's good, and we keep them all.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u124	Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u125	[[Applause on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Why favour the executive at the expense of Parliament? The measures you are proposing to us seem to be part of the President's and Government's expressed desire to reduce the prerogatives of Parliament in order to increase their own power. I fear that this law will serve only to stigmatize elected officials. So, of course, there are among them gallant sheep, but no more than in other sectors of society. I can assure you that if we take the steps that I have just outlined and which you have unfortunately not seen in relation to the texts under discussion, we will have put an end to all the excesses that we have experienced.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u127	In any case, nothing you propose is such as to profoundly upset the current order or restore confidence in public action. This confidence has been lost more by unfulfilled promises than by business. How can we explain the massive abstention that has developed, if not through the unwavering application, for several years, of a policy guided by the most orthodox economic liberalism? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Citizens must be given back power and elected officials must be forced to keep their promises in order to break this vicious circle. Rebuilding the people by rebuilding the Republic, thanks to a constituent assembly, is the solution! But pending the convening of such an assembly, it is possible to act now. What better way to force elected officials to fulfil their commitments than to establish a genuine revocative referendum, to allow citizens to remove an elected official during his term of office, if he does not respect his programme? Many countries do. We must put in place such a measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u129	We must allow citizens to propose a law themselves – not the false-like parliamentary initiative referendum created by Sarkozy in 2008, which never served, since it was thought so that it could not serve. But of all this, Madam Keeper of Seals, there is no question in your law. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We therefore call for the rejection of this text, which is not up to the challenges of our time, in order to give our citizens confidence in public action. Come back to us with a real law of republican virtue. And if you are not able to do so, you will still be able to pass the bill that our group will bring forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u130	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u131	Mr President, I have an opinion against the motion that you are putting forward, which will not surprise you. I listened carefully to the points you have developed. I found that some of them were interesting and that they would deserve to be treated, but not here and not now.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u132	Where, and when?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u133	If you don't mind, I'll just develop three points. First of all, as I said – and I understood, during your speech, that you were somewhat embarrassed by my previous comment – this text is not a law of moralization. I stress once again this point: it is a law that lays down a number of ethical rules, but in no case is it based on a moral presupposition. So your arguments, from this point of view, do not seem relevant to me. Nor is it a law that governs the relationship between private actors in society. The text makes it clear that it is a matter of restoring confidence in public action. It therefore does not address the relationship between private persons. So, again, and whatever the interest of the elements you've developed, it seems to me that they can't go in the direction you want.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u134	Don't touch the grisbi!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u135	Thirdly, it seems to me that this text brings a number of new elements on topics that have not yet been addressed: the representative allowance for mandate expenses, family employment or parliamentary collaborators, for example. It is not intended to resume the still lukewarm work of the assemblies, such as the Acts of 2013 and 2016, which have already dealt with matters relating to senior officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u136	Or the labor law?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u137	This has nothing to do with it. In short, we do not have to put back on the job elements that have already been dealt with. An assessment will surely be made, at the time you agree, but not now. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and the MODEM group]] I would add that these laws do not deal with docking points in ports or yachts. For all these reasons, I therefore express an opinion against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u138	In the explanations of vote, Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for the La France insoumée group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u139	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and LR groups, as well as on several benches of the LC group]] What do morals or ethics do in all this? This bill is an act of ease, the result of an unlikely electoral agreement reached along the way, in the emotion of the story of the turpitudes of a candidate who was also a Member of Parliament. After which we are served this soup, in the idea that the confidence of the public, that is, the people, would depend on the behaviour of the parliamentarians. I don't hesitate to say it, it's a shame to pretend it or to imply it! It is a shame, which is part of a gross and vulgar anti-parliamentary populism. If trust is also altered in our society, it is because money rots everything within it. Bastien Lachaud has rightly shown that those who dominate society engage in ostentatious behaviour which they then suggest to parliamentarians to adopt. Should I remind you of the role played by three high-priced costumes in the initiative of these bills? Ostentatious behaviour, the idea that there is no limit to what one can buy, that it is only public good that results from the sum of the particular interests, all this, Madam Minister, is one and the same thing. Virtue is a principle that not only concerns the person who practices it, but refers to the idea of serving oneself, as in the public arena, the general interest. That's what we're hanging on to right now. What do those who reject virtue want? Let us know! Before I mention to you an author whom I know you love, I want to sum up our line: we must rid public life and that of the nation of the grip of money, which has gone mad in the country. If you want to prosecute the corrupt, track down the corrupters: they are not so hard to find, because they are few and do not even hide their activities. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] To conclude, and in line with the thought of Robespierre, founder of our freedoms, I will remind you that we are not gathered to govern crime but to fight it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u140	Mr Hubert Wulfranc, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor. I should like to remind you that, in explanations of vote, the speaking time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u141	Really, Robespierre has all its place this afternoon in our debate! Following Jean-Luc Mélenchon, I will recall that, faced with all the "armed traitors" at the gates of the nation, he said: "So far the art of governing has been only the art of stripping and enslaving the large number for the benefit of the small number, and the legislation means to reduce these attacks into a system." Ladies and gentlemen, you are the representatives of the system with this small-arm project, which shows well your art of smoking and your will to consolidate the republic of the aristocrats of money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u142	The aristocrats again!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u143	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] For all these reasons, and on behalf of Robespierre, we will vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u144	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u145	I will go straight to the point, so as not to exceed my speaking time. French political life has been marked in recent months by the revelation to the great day of unworthy, or at least outdated, practices of our democracy...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u146	The Ferrand case!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u147	... which have been running for far too long, including in this assembly. Special interests have sometimes supplanted the general interest and, even more serious, mistrust has spread to our institutions. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Last week, the Law Committee adopted, after intense and lengthy debates, two first texts aimed at regulating these practices. In particular, they provide for the termination of family employment and the abolition of the parliamentary reserve and the IRFM. No other majority in the past had dared to undertake this. Curiously, in this assembly, some do not see these texts with a good eye, even to the point of wanting to reject them on the grounds that all this would go too quickly, or would not be complete. Should we deduce from this opposition of principle that they are ultimately much more attached to yesterday's order than they would be willing to declare it? To these, and to the French, we recall that this is only a first set of measures, which will be supplemented in the coming months by other mechanisms such as constitutional reform and, among other examples, the non-cumulation of mandates over time. We also reply that no, it is not necessary to change the number of the Constitution in order to change behaviour and regain the trust legitimately expected by our fellow citizens. [[Board slams on a bench of the LR group]] The French have decided. Our approach is that of pragmatism and efficiency, not that of the announcement effect or of the raze table. In the end, the measures enshrined in these texts are not only symbolic: they are aimed very concretely at ensuring that overflows are limited, but also respect the policy space required for elected officials in the exercise of their mandate. It is therefore a balanced, effective and, above all, far too long overdue text for our citizens to reject its adoption. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Trust in our institutions and the effectiveness of public action depend on it. I therefore propose to vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u148	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thank you, Mrs. Chalas. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to avoid the clapping of the desk. I have shown some tolerance for a previous speaker who has exceeded his speaking time. It seemed to me normal to let Mrs Chalas finish her speech, which took two minutes and eleven seconds. Mr Philippe Gosselin, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u149	I would like to call on my colleagues to show a little humility. Indeed, these texts are neither the alpha nor the omega which they present to us: I would remind you that, since 1985, thirty-one texts have been voted on on this subject. There has been a beginning before, there will be a continuation after – and not necessarily constitutional reform, which will only concern certain provisions of our fundamental law. I wonder about these texts, like many of my colleagues, but I do not object to them as many grievances as the Members of La France insoubted. Indeed, the initiative submitted to us – which responds, it must be made clear, to communication objectives – is somewhat demagogy. At the same time, we are faced with an imperative of transparency and trust, which is certainly not decreed. That is why we agree with the principle of this bill while fully disputing its implementation. We will have the opportunity to come back to that on the motion to refer it back to committee. It is these arrangements that the committee has completely emptied of their substance. The proceedings of the Senate, on the other hand, were ignored. Today, we are faced with a text that stigmatizes elected officials, especially parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u150	Only parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u151	... and which makes no mention of slippers, conflicts of interest, porosity between the public and the private – in short, a text of announcements more than concrete provisions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. - "Oh! » on the benches of the FI group]] But since, once again, we are committed to the very principle of these texts, we will not vote with La France insoumée.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u152	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Bruno Duvergé, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u153	[[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] The ordinary bill on the regulation of public life, initiated by François Bayrou, then keepers of seals, meets the legitimate expectations of our fellow citizens for the establishment of new rules that guarantee strong and different political practices from those previously criticized. Here and now, it is a matter of implementing the crucial points of the presidential programme for which we have committed ourselves and to which we have prepared ourselves. The travaux préparatoires for this bill, as well as the enrichments of the Senate and the law commission of our house, were important enough not to justify such a rejection vote. We therefore see no reason to delay the discussion and vote on this text at the sitting. We owe it to our fellow citizens. The MODEM and related groups will therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u154	Mr Philippe Gomès spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u155	On the subject of corrupt money, the money that is deviating, there have been many other statements throughout the Fifth Republic, and in particular those of a candidate of a left-wing party that has become president, which I think is much more talented. With regard to this motion for a preliminary rejection, the Constructive Group considers that this text is a step in the right direction. I am referring to the provisions concerning the prevention of conflicts of interest, the prohibition of family workers or other provisions of an equivalent nature, in particular those relating to the representative allowance for mandate costs. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group and some benches of the REM group]] Admittedly, it is not the great leap forward that some expected, but a small step in an ascent that we must continue. As Philippe Gosselin said, many reforms have been undertaken over the last thirty years; I believe that each one has made it possible to take a path that has led parliamentarians and, in general, the elected ones, to greater transparency in the exercise of their public mandate. As such, we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u156	For the last explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Delphine Batho, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u157	I would say to our colleagues in La France that indeed money rots everything, and therefore also rots politics. However, the need to attack corrupters' actions does not excuse the turpitudes of corrupters.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u159	This is at stake in the debate on this motion of rejection: is there any reason to debate a text of moralization of political life and, more generally, of public action? We believe that yes, even if the glaring inequalities, injustices – one could add to those that have been mentioned the abandonment of the tax on financial transactions – are other subjects that deserve the same attention of the National Assembly. The New Left Group wants to enter into this debate on the moralization of public life. Is the text before us satisfactory, does it correspond to the great law that was announced? Unfortunately not. In fact, very important commitments are not respected: the prohibition of cumulation between a term of office as a Member of Parliament and a function of advice is not really imposed; the requirement for a blank record for election candidates has been rejected. Above all, a fundamental question is not addressed: that of corruption in the state apparatus...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u160	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u161	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group as well as on several benches of the NG and GDR groups]] ... and all that concerns the high public service, which is, as we know, sensitive to the weight of the lobby, especially when it comes to public health or ecology. All these questions are postponed at this stage of the discussion. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] But we want to get into the discussion. In a few moments, we will propose the adoption of a motion to refer the text back to committee and to guide it in the direction it should have taken. On the other hand, we are not in favour of the adoption of a motion of rejection which is tantamount to considering that there is no need for debate on this question of the moralization of public life, pursuant to Rule 91(5) of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u162	I put to the vote the motion to reject the ordinary bill in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u163	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to reject the organic bill, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u164	Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everything must change so that nothing changes. This famous maxim characterizes from our point of view the political era inaugurated by the victory of candidate Macron and the setting up of his two governments and then of his majority, but also, unfortunately, the debates and exchanges that we have had in the committee of laws on these two texts, in particular on the draft organic law on the so-called trust in public life, which we ask you to reject. Of course, we are not in Italy of Risorgimento whose revolutionary impulses completed the construction of national unity and a state. Our situation is quite opposite. Indeed, the present period is characterized by the dismantling of the State, the weakening of the public power and a profound democratic crisis, which affects the heart of what is precisely the foundation of the political community and civil society to which we all adhere, namely the consent – the consent of the individual and the consent of the citizen to the authority, once that of a king, today that of a State, a regime, a Republic. This is a moment of crisis, political, ecological, social and economic, the same moment that Antonio Gramsci characterized as the "where the old world order fades and the new one must prevail despite all the resistances and contradictions. This phase of transition is marked by many mistakes and many torments." We believe that this organic bill and the ordinary bill are such mistakes. In the moment we live, those from below do not want things to happen as before and those from above can no longer make things happen as before; As for those in the middle, they can switch on one side or the other. This is where characters of the type of Tancrède-Macron come in, to ensure that "everything changes so that nothing changes", to give the appearance of change and renewal of the facade while keeping in mind the continuity and maintenance of the status quo, so that those of the top, in other forms and other dressings, maintain their control, power and privileges. We present this motion of rejection because the reasons, objectives, methods and boundaries of these bills are precisely within the strategy of a power, a government and a majority who want nothing to change fundamentally behind the appearance of change.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u165	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u166	As has been said by our colleague from the Republicans Philippe Gosselin, there is a mismatch between the announcement effects – presented during the campaign and after his election by the President of the Republic, then at the beginning of this discussion by the keeper of the seals – and the choice of the expedited procedure and the nature of the provisions finally adopted in the bills. The President of the Republic wanted to make this project a strong symbol of his mandate, giving citizens the signal of a real renewal, of a real change in a way. However, our discussions are part of an accelerated procedure and, while the examination of the text in committee lasted seventeen hours, Members of the majority have never shown the slightest willingness to debate or move forward on the many amendments tabled, mostly by minority groups. The majority, at the orders of the executive, never wanted to go beyond almost blocked votes and rejected all the amendments aimed at enriching the text, including those of the Senate, which is not yet an ultra-leftist official and which, despite its conservative tendency, had seized this opportunity to enrich and expand the text, as the previous seal guard, François Bayrou, had called Parliament. This method shows, behind the announcement effects, the contradiction that exists in the presidential speech. It is not a question of restoring confidence, but of giving guarantees to reassure and ensure that citizens fall asleep again, after a little ridicule the facade without changing the background. It is a communication exercise as the President of the Republic and his government have multiplied them since the beginning of their mandate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u167	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u168	... which should simply be used to give a better look and a better image in the event of bad publicity, as we have seen during the last communication shifts. In substance, as Bastien Lachaud said, these two bills do not deal with trust in public life. The latter, despite the denials of Mrs La Garde des Seales, concerns far more people than only parliamentarians. Indeed, it includes all the actors and actors involved in organizing political debates and life in society: deputies and senators, but also local elected officials, economic power actors or those of the press. The desire to restore confidence in public life must also be based on these people and their interventions in public life. The executive has consistently chosen to reject the amendments tabled by the Senate or minority groups, which were intended to respond to the original intent of the text and its title, as redrafted to emphasize the notion of public life. As has been said, there has been a willingness not to ask the substantive questions, as well as an attitude, which has marked the debates in committee, the systematic protection of the executive, the rejection of all the amendments aimed at extending to the Government the precepts of control and transparency that were rightly intended, at least for a number of them, to apply to parliamentarians. And this without any substantive political explanation, with just a few unsubstantiated legal arguments and in contradiction with the declared intentions. In doing so, despite the declared intention not to stigmatize, the legislation that we are going to examine is doing so, as has been said by others other than us, parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u169	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u170	Most of their provisions deal with procedures that need to be regulated and made more transparent. In this respect, we have tabled amendments which, from our point of view, went in this direction, but they have not been accepted. Another contradiction of the majority! But by focusing the whole discussion on this particular aspect of political life, parliamentarians are being pointed out and wider responsibilities are being dispelled, in order to protect a minority from genuine transparency and the demand for virtue, which should nevertheless be imposed on all actors in public life. This is part of the faults of the majority and the Government that we must correct today, first by voting on this motion to reject, and eventually by adopting amendments that will be tabled during the debate. Business and scandals exist and, in response to our colleague from the New Left, Delphine Batho, we want to fight them and have tabled amendments to that effect. These cases and scandals affect not only parliamentarians but also other actors in public life, as has been said. Suspects of conflicts of interest affect many members of the Government, who have been protected by the majority in committee, and are the symptom of a deep evil, that of the democratic crisis in society. To use the chosen terms, even if we had proposed others, "reinvigorating confidence" requires tackling the root causes of democratic evil and not just its symptoms. However, this organic bill does not meet this need. What destroys the confidence of ever wider sections of the population, as the rise of abstention attests to the election after election, is the fact that public action and political speech have been part of a neoliberal logic for more than thirty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u171	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u172	These policies are conducted in the name of the market, free and undistorted competition and the 3% budgetary deficit that must not be exceeded. They are justified by the revival of growth and the creation of jobs – which are still expected. What destroys trust is, at the same time as this neoliberal language, the recognition by political leaders of their own impotence. Thus, in 1997, Lionel Jospin told Michelin workers in the fight against their dismissal that it was not necessary to expect everything from the state and that he did not believe "that we can now administer the economy". "It is not by law, the texts, that we regulate the economy" and "Everyone admits the market," he also proclaimed. Twenty years later, candidate Macron did not say anything else by talking about the unemployed who should not expect everything from the state, or by explaining to the Whirlpool workers that dismissals could not be prohibited and that the solution did not go through the law. If the solution to restoring confidence in political action does not go through the law, where does it go, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u174	That is why this bill, which does not attack, as our colleague has said, king money and deregulated finance, which does not seek to track down corrupters and corrupters, will not restore confidence in public life. Indeed, it accompanies the neoliberal project and does not fundamentally question the reasons for the democratic evil that our country is experiencing. On the contrary, we could start a genuine process of democratic reform. We proposed it through a series of amendments that were rejected without any real discussion. Trust, as Mrs. Keeper of the Seals said, is not decreed, but is built. This is done not only with regard to the citizens, but also with regard to the citizens, who will have confidence in their own ability to act and intervene in everyday life if they have social and economic rights that guarantee their future and that of their children, if society shares wealth rather than favours a small number of wealthy and annuitant people, and if they obtain democratic rights that protect them and ensure their security. This is not covered in these laws and in the proposals of the majority and the Government. To restore confidence in citizens requires to restore confidence in the tools of democracy, by making them actors and actors in laws, choices and decisions. This is, for example, the meaning of the right of dismissal of elected officials, a measure proposed by France that is unsubstantiated and rejected without explanation. It could, however, if a majority of you decided to adopt it, symbolically mark a first step towards a profound overhaul of our institutions. In his inaugural speech, President Macron had insisted on the responsibility entrusted to him by the French people. However, in the etymological sense, the term "responsibility" comes from the Latin answer, which means "responsibility for" and "guarantor", and requires accountability. Many, but not all, elected office holders feel that they do not want to meet such a requirement. Since this project is aimed almost exclusively at parliamentarians, we will have to impose these same rules and tools. Thus, the first step in any endeavour to restore confidence in public life must be the restoration of the political responsibility of our institutions. One might even consider, like MM. Duhamel and Mény in their dictionary of constitutional law, that political responsibility is what marks a real dividing line between dictatorship and democracy. This restoration must concern any elected person, whether he is a simple municipal councillor or President of the Republic. Political responsibility, which is in a way the democratic ransom of power, presupposes precisely that the people, who hold national sovereignty under article 3 of the Constitution, have the capacity to control and sanction those whom they have designated to exercise political power on their behalf. It is therefore necessary that the possibility of revoking a governess should not be at his sole discretion, that of the President. What matters is not the removal of an elected one, but the possibility for the people to do so. To restore confidence would therefore give back to the people that power, which is fundamental. Far from the cartoons given by some, such a revocation procedure would in fact be easy to implement and safe for institutional stability. As constitutionalist Philippe Ségur notes in Governors: what is the responsibility? "We know, in fact, what an election may have, and for this very reason, how many ways to manipulate the electorate are beyond fraud. On the contrary, a popular revocation procedure at the initiative of government officials could offer genuine guarantees of clarity as it would be voluntary, finalized and expressly motivated. Contrary to what is supposed to be believed, it could include a number of safeguards that would ensure moderate use of them (competition with threshold of signatures to initiate proceedings, delay before decision to proceed, referendum with qualified majority...)" Article 6 of the Constitution, which provides that the President of the Republic shall be elected for a period of five years by direct universal suffrage and shall refer its application to an organic law, establishes the right of the French people to revoke the President of the Republic. We are discussing an organic law, which we can make, more than a symbol, a real tool so that the people can regain power and have better confidence in their institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u175	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u176	Article 34 of the Constitution also provides that the Parliament shall lay down the rules concerning civil rights and fundamental guarantees granted to citizens for the exercise of public freedoms, the electoral regime of parliamentary assemblies, local assemblies and representative bodies of the French established outside France, as well as the conditions for the exercise of the electoral mandates and elective functions of the members of the deliberative assemblies of the territorial authorities. This section enshrines the right to remove MPs, Senators and local elected officials. It is our responsibility to ensure that, if this bill were to be passed despite the previous motion to reject it, it includes these kinds of tools, because they are the only ones that give the people the power to intervene in business and in the organization of political life. Ladies and gentlemen, by virtue of the powers given to us by the Constitution, I ask you: why did the majority in committee choose to reject this right which we proposed constructively? It could have given this text scope, it could have given a signal to our fellow citizens at the time of this accelerated procedure examination in the middle of the summer, showing that it is really a matter of setting up a framework to restore confidence in public life. We are still waiting for explanations; Perhaps we will have it on the part of the Commissioner or the rapporteur, or in any case, I hope, in the course of the discussion, because we will rest the question. More fundamentally – that has been said, but I would like to return to it – to restore confidence in institutions, in public life, in political life is to give the people the very power to decide to reform, to change their constitution, because it is this power that makes it possible to re-establish political sense, to re-establish political people. That is the meaning of the Constituent Assembly proposal that we debated throughout our campaign and that has met with a real echo. During these months, we organized a great march in Paris which brought together hundreds of thousands of people asking for a new constituent for a new republic. "A people always has the right to review, reform and change its Constitution. A generation cannot subject future generations to its laws. These are the terms of article 28 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen in the Constitution of 24 June 1793.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u177	The best!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u178	An institutional system that is breathless, a people that withdraws from the political field: the democratic crisis is there, as I said, and I think that everyone here will recognize it. This system must therefore be changed. Democracy is not just about slipping a ballot into the ballot box once every five years. It presupposes permanent citizen involvement in political life, in public life. The Fifth Republic organises precisely the exclusion of the people from the decision. To get out of the civic and democratic crisis, we must first and foremost call on all citizens to become personally involved in the collective rewriting of the pact that underpins our people and our Republic. In order to carry out this republican re-foundation, it is therefore necessary to convene a Constituent Assembly whose sole mandate would be the drafting of a new constitution. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] A constituent assembly is an assembly whose members are appointed to draft and adopt a new constitution. The ambition is to give itself a fundamental text that is part of a historical filiation. This method has precedents in the history of France. The first Republic – through the Convention – the second and fourth are the result of the work of such an assembly. In a way, this is also the case with the Third Framework Programme. Republic: The National Assembly passed the constitutional laws of 1875. More recently, and in other countries, we can mention the 2011 Icelandic Constituent Assembly or the Tunisian Constituent Assembly elected the same year after the Arab Springs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u179	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u180	In any case, the aim is the same: to call on every citizen, every citizen, to commit himself personally to the elaboration of the contract that binds the people and the nation. This is therefore an objective that we could have given ourselves in these debates under the accelerated procedure, an exceptional procedure, because the situation is in fact exceptionally serious for our democracy, we are all aware of it here. The assembly gathered here could have, could have called for the launch of a Constituent Assembly, sparked debates so that citizens could reinvigorate with the institutions, elaborate the way of life in society themselves, enact the fundamental rules, the methods of organising a VIe Republic: revocable institutions and elected representatives, citizens with rights both in the city and in the enterprise, a set of fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, such as the "green rule" or the right to abortion. To restore confidence in the people is to give them the word, to give them power. We are thus gathered here, as I said, for an examination under an exceptional procedure, in the middle of the summer. But once again there are historical precedents. We're one week away from August 4th. On 4 August, during the Revolution, marked the end of privileges,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u182	...the end of a minority's privileges over the majority. The end of privileges is what we can decree if we have the courage to launch this fundamental work which would be to completely review the functioning of public life, the functioning of the democratic life of our country, through a constituent assembly. The House, Parliament has the means, the powers, the responsibility, and that is what we must do if we really want to restore confidence. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Within France, we fundamentally believe that, whatever the problem, the solution is the people. We think you can believe it, too. We want to convince you. That is why we are presenting this motion to reject the organic bill in advance, as we have just done with the ordinary bill, because we believe that we have a responsibility to go beyond a few measures that are far below what is required by the current crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Whatever the problem, the solution is the people. That is why, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I call on you, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to reject this organic bill and to work together on the only project that really meets the demands of the period: to restore power to the people, to convene a constituent body for a social, democratic and ecological VIth Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u183	[[Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaces François de Rugy in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u184	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u185	Madam Member, I have obviously listened very carefully to your motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u186	Your request!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u187	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] In view of the reactions and the totality of the debates in the Committee on Laws and in the various parliamentary groups on the provisions proposed by the texts before you, i.e. the provisions relating to the IRFM, the incompatibilities or the bank of democracy, it seems to me, contrary to what you say, that we are not just here in a communication exercise. To hear the invitations to go further to reach out to all the actors in social life,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u188	But we won't go any further!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u189	... it seems to me that we both have an interest in continuing to debate in order to act effectively, beyond words, on the evils we want to remedy. In that context, the Government's concern will be to be anchored in reality in order to move what I think is extremely important to reform in our public life. To listen to what you have said about the univocal nature of these provisions, which would be aimed only at parliamentarians and elected representatives, Madam Member, I realize that the Government must no doubt continue to do pedagogic work. In particular, he must explain again that the provisions that will be submitted to you on the prohibition of family jobs, for example, also affect the ministers' offices, that the HATVP's control provisions on tax matters also affect the appointment of ministers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u190	What about the ministerial reserve?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u191	... that the control of the criminal record also concerns the appointment of ministers. It therefore seems to me that what you deplore does not exactly correspond to what is provided for in the texts. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Your wish, as I understand it, is that these texts will give all the energy of the night of August 4. I would not like to see provisions that are not exactly suited to our ambitions and to your own, turning into Dupes Day.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u192	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion. The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u193	Danièle Obono's motion for prior rejection does not mean that we are not interested in today's debate, as you will have understood.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u194	It feels like we're here.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u195	On the contrary! However, instead of a so-called "trust" law, you are actually presenting us with a law of distrust. For despite what you say, minister, the executive demands from the legislature rules that it will not apply to itself. It's outrageous. In our view, it is a stain on these bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u196	Right! The government of the narrators!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u197	This law is actually meant to distract the eyes of our fellow citizens. As my colleagues have said excellently, we could sum it up as follows: let the rich govern and suspect your elected officials! We do not accept this rule. In order to combat corruptors, new means must be put in place, which this text does not propose. In view of what has eroded trust between our fellow citizens and political power, it is only a loaded blank gun that misses its target: you make a lot of noise, but once again, you do not touch the essentials. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Of course, parliamentarians have acted wrongly and must be punished. Who's contesting it here? Certainly not us. However, trust will arise first of all from the possibility that the people will regain new rights, including the right to control the elected ones. And the paradox of your bill is that it relies on a certain vocabulary – trust, transparency, ethics – without any new rights being attributed to our fellow citizens. The great absentee of your law, ma'am, is the people. Hear our proposals: the right for citizens to remove their elected representatives and to control the action of political power. It is in this way, by giving new rights to our citizens, that you will restore confidence. They must be able to remove the women and men they have elected if they do not implement what they have been elected for. Your text will not solve the real problem; It will not be able to fill the gulf that exists today between our citizens and political power, which means that more than one out of every two voters has not gone to vote. The right to revoke: this is the answer. The 6th Republic by the Constituent Assembly: this is the answer! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] President Mélenchon quoted a great Republican. In my turn, I would like to conclude with a quote, to answer those who smiled earlier when my colleague Bastien Lachaud denounced the disastrous effect of money: "The love of money is the root of all evils. These are the words of Pope Francis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u198	The next speaker is Mr André Chassaigne, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u199	I will not quote Robespierre, but by listening to you, minister, I was thinking of this very popular expression: "The empty barrels are the ones that make the most noise. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u200	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u201	If this text does not go to the bottom of things, it is because there is something behind it: this is what this motion for prior rejection denounces. This bill is used to hide, hide,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u202	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u203	It's a sex cache!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u204	... it's used to save the real people responsible, the ones who make the most money. That's what's behind it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u206	To spare the real perpetrators of the disaster that our country is experiencing, and which causes a terrible anger everywhere, to hide this disaster, you use the old muleta thing: we shake the muleta to make believe that the only real problem would be that of the elected ones. [[Smile on several benches – Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Of course, we must combat abuses, but we must not limit ourselves to the representatives of the nation! All the powers, including the members of the Government, that remain spared today must be addressed. We need to tackle those who run our financial system, those who hold the purse cords. In a word, you have to touch the grisbi! But you don't want to touch the grisbi! [[Smiles and applause on many benches]] Your bill, by far, is something, but close to it, it's nothing. Even when you pretend to tackle the abuses that may be committed by elected officials or other holders of power, you do everything you can to avoid touching the grisbi. You remind me of what Master Folace – interpreted by Francis Blanche, and not by Claude Rich – said in Les Tontons gunners, about the vitriol, a "man's drink": "We had to stop manufacturing. There were customers who were getting blind, so it was a story. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u207	It's brutal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u208	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u209	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] You don't want to make a story, to protect the privileged.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u210	The next speaker is Mr Bruno Questel, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République) on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u211	Let me remind you that, in accordance with rule 91(5) of our Rules of Procedure, a motion of prior rejection is intended to "recognize that the proposed text is contrary to one or more constitutional provisions" or to "make a decision that there is no need to deliberate". Mrs Obono, you have today gratified us with words that tend to say what money is the sole cause of all the evils of our society. Instead of commenting on the constitutionality of the measures proposed by this organic bill, you have only expressed the opinion of France unsubstantiated. Clearly, you and your colleagues do not accept that the parliamentary majority should assume its responsibilities by reflecting the commitments made by the President of the Republic to the French and that it should debate matters other than those that are dear to you. You have not put forward any arguments on the text itself. You have only referred to the proposals that you would like to discuss, although they have been rejected by the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u212	This is the principle of opposition...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u213	Indeed, you are simply taking up the proposals of candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon in the presidential election.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u214	These are the proposals of unsuspecting France, which represents 7 million people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u215	You could have, since you denounce the money that corrupts everything, told us about the assets of the candidates in the same presidential election. And I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to consult this information on the dedicated sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u216	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u217	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] For all these reasons, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the move, I call on you to reject this motion for a preliminary rejection massively.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u218	What is this completely hollow intervention?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u219	The next speaker is Mr Robin Reda, for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u220	We have understood well that, for our colleagues in France who have been unsubstantiated, any law discussed under the authority of the Constitution of the Fifth Republic was futile. If we do not deny the Government's exercise of communication, if we do not deny the legislation of emotion, repeatedly denounced during our work in committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u222	... we are not, however, in the rejection or denial of this text, which must be discussed. Yes, this text has receded, compared to the Senate version. Yes, this text stigmatizes parliamentarians and local elected officials more than the senior public service...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u223	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u224	...but it is not by rejecting the discussion of this bill that we are going to create a climate conducive to the restoration of confidence in our fellow citizens. We do not want to reject the discussion. Above all, we do not want to get rid of our responsibilities, which are great. What we want is to create the conditions for a healthy debate on trust, without voyeurism towards the elected ones. [["Ah! » on the benches of the FI group]] Since it is fashionable in this House, and even if my colleagues in the group The Republicans will probably make me pay for it, I will also quote Robespierre passed by Jules Michelet's more romantic filter: "They go too fast, they will break the collar; Paris wasn't made in a day. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u225	On the contrary, they're out there!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u226	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We believe that we must take the time to debate, if we do not want this text to be added to the 30 or so laws that have already tried, in vain, to restore confidence. The Republicans will vote against this motion to reject, in order to give free ground to discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u227	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mrs Florence Lasserre-David, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u228	The draft organic law on the regulation of public life goes hand in hand with the draft ordinary law. It is equally essential for the fulfilment of the expectations of the French on the necessary renewal of our political practices and it is absolutely complementary to the ordinary bill. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several REM benches]] To conduct its discussion and vote now seems obvious to us, as the opposite would rightly be perceived as an unacceptable step backwards on our commitments. It is not a question of voting for the founding text of the renewal of political practices, but of voting for the first of the texts which together will constitute the renewal of the democratic foundations of our political practices, desired by our fellow citizens. Because we believe it is necessary and obvious to discuss and vote on this organic bill without further delay, we will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u229	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel spoke for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u230	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Of course, we will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand. I have heard a lot about Robespierre, but I will invite my colleagues from La France insoubted to read François Furet first in order to have a slightly more moderate reading of the French Revolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u231	And you read Albert Soboul!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u232	This text, ladies and gentlemen, speaks of probity, conflict of interest, financing of political parties. You have the right to refer to the subjects you are dear to – they may be discussed in other texts – and your ideas are quite respectable, but they are not on the agenda. You should also remember that a majority has been elected, and that this is not a group of fifteen people...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u233	Seventeen people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u234	...which will impose its ideas on the length of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u235	A little respect, sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u236	[[Applause on the benches of the LC group and on several benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] That is why we will not vote on your motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u237	The next speaker is Mr Christophe Bouillon, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u238	It was my understanding that a quote contest was open. I believe that it was last Monday, at the national conference of territories, that the President of the Republic liked to quote Emmanuel Levinas, saying that trust is the problem of the other. Trust is also, it seems to me, our problem. Everything that contributes to transparency is in the right direction. That is why, together with my colleagues, we presented, defended and voted in the previous legislature two essential laws in favour of transparency: the law of 11 October 2013 and the law of 6 December 2016. I am surprised, moreover, that some prominent members of the current government did not see fit to vote on these laws, which, however, were in the direction of greater transparency. The prior rejection of this text is not a good solution. There are two pitfalls to avoid: the first is to make believe that nothing can be done; The second is to make it look like we can do anything. You have chosen a middle lane, which responds in part to the emergency. Partly because our debates in committee have revealed a number of contradictions and imprecisions. The account is not there, there are holes in the racket, and the answers you have provided have not allowed to lift the veil on your true intentions, particularly on the issue of the ministerial reserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u239	It's the friends' store!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u240	In any event, we have instead made the choice within the New Left Group to move a motion for referral to committee, which will give you the opportunity, Madam Minister, as you yourself have said, to do more pedagogy. We need to go to the end of our discussions on trust and transparency, if we want to get out of the path we have been on for more than thirty years, as our colleague Philippe Gosselin pointed out: more than thirty laws have been passed on this subject. It should not be that tomorrow, because we have worked badly, because we have not gone to the end of the debate, we are obliged to come back to this issue again.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u241	We're 100 percent sure we've done wrong work!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u242	[[Applause on a few benches of the New Left Group]] For all these reasons, we will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand, but we will vote on the motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u243	I put to the vote the motion to reject the organic bill beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u244	I have received from Mr Olivier Faure and members of the New Left Group a motion for referral to committee on the ordinary bill tabled pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Olivier Dussopt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u245	Madam President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Laws, Mrs rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, the parliamentary agenda is symptomatic, as it is, more than ever, a body of resonating news. We are emerging from an electoral sequence that has mobilized our compatriots around three main themes: the security and protection of the French, the fight against unemployment and the moralization of our public life. This is how we have just extended the state of emergency, before examining the potential introduction of a part of it into our common law; that the Government has asked the Parliament to legislate by ordinance to reform the social dialogue; and that we are discussing, from today, measures to be taken to restore confidence in public life. First of all, I want to point out that a lot has been done about this in recent years and that this is to be credited to the previous majority. I am of course thinking of the organic and ordinary laws of 11 October 2013 relating to the transparency of public life and the law of 9 December 2016 relating to transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life. I am also thinking of the law of 6 December 2013 on combating tax fraud and major economic and financial crime and the law of 20 April 2016 on ethics and the rights and obligations of civil servants. Despite this, much progress remains to be made in restoring trust between our fellow citizens and their elected representatives. The two texts that our House is called upon to examine today must be effective and useful if we want them to truly mark a new stage in this endeavour to re-establish the necessary bond of trust between citizens and their representatives, which is the basis of our democratic pact. Without calling into question the advisability of these two texts or that of this discussion, and before coming to the arguments behind our request for referral back to committee, I want to make two preliminary remarks. On the one hand, I regret that the presentation of this text is the result of a new scandal that has struck the political class. This had already been the case with the law of 11 October 2013. This may underscore the inability of our democratic institutions and political personnel to reform themselves. Let us recognize this: our tendency to legislate only by reaction is one of the reasons that contributes to the distrust of the political class. On the other hand, if our legislation has the function of preventing as much as possible abuses and breaches of probity, as well as of punishing them strongly, no legislation, even the best, will ever be able to prevent all abuses. While it is possible to prohibit, supervise, make public certain actions or practices, or to promote certain behaviours, the ethical requirement is always a matter of individual and personal responsibility. I should like to turn to the reasons why our group has put forward a motion for referral back to committee. By this motion, I said, we do not dispute the interest of these two bills. We are convinced, on the contrary, that these texts are useful and expected, but that is precisely why their examination must not be squandered or their ambition amputated. This request for referral to committee is based on three observations. First, the timetable for reviewing the texts is not the right one. Without prior constitutional revision, certain provisions that are essential to enhancing the transparency of our public life will be legally fragile, if not unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u246	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u247	Worse, it has led you to give up some of them or to reconsider their ambition. Second, the reduced time frame for parliamentary review of these two bills prevents the legislators we are amending them in substance and has prevented us from conducting full assessments of the proposed arrangements. This has led the committee, on the basis of arguments that we have challenged, to reject provisions or to refrain from including new ones in both texts. Thirdly, the scope of the texts and the positions advocated by the Government lead us to question the vision that the executive branch has of Parliament. Two strong commitments made by the current President of the Republic during the presidential campaign are now subject to procrastination or renunciation as a result of the reversal of the timetable for the review of these texts prior to the adoption of a constitutional revision. I remind them: the first is the obligation to present a criminal record blank of certain mentions in order to be able to run for election; The second is the prohibition on parliamentarians from consulting in parallel with their mandate. The first commitment was finally abandoned by the Government in favour of broadening the scope of the mandatory supplementary penalty of ineligibility. This is section 1 of the ordinary bill. The second commitment – the ban on counselling – has been heavily truncated by the limitation to certain activities and for a certain period of time the incompatibility with the parliamentary mandate. These are articles 4 to 8 of the Organic Bill. In both cases, the argument used by the Government was the unconstitutionality of the commitments made by the President of the Republic. However, this argument raises two questions: Did the candidate who became President know that his promises were not constitutional? If so, why didn't he first propose a constitutional reform, which he could have announced before Congress before asking us to consider these two bills? One can even wonder if there is finally a deliberate will not to implement the entire presidential commitments...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u248	We don't know...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u249	However, trust in public life is not limited to the probity of elected officials; it is also based on their ability to keep their promises once they have assumed responsibility. Other provisions appear to face constitutional difficulties. If I refer to the work of the Law Commission last week, the risk of unconstitutionality has been explicitly invoked on several occasions in both the ordinary bill and the organic bill, and not just on section 1. This argument was used to reject amendments or to delete provisions adopted by the Senate. I am thinking of article 2 bis, which was intended to establish a register of the deportation of members of the Government, and article 7 ter B, which provided for a decree in the Council of State to define the conditions for the payment of the expenses of reception and representation of members of the Government. I have also noted – but I do not want to see malice – that the risk of unconstitutionality was very often used when it was a question of restricting the will of parliamentarians to apply to the Government and members of the executive the same constraints as those imposed on them by these texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u250	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u251	It's a variable geometry!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u252	Very variable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u253	This contributes, and I regret it, to a form of imbalance in the text proposed to us and to a form of stigmatization of our assemblies, as well as other colleagues who have been able to denounce it before me.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u254	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u255	Returning to article 1 of the draft ordinary law, the Law Committee of the National Assembly had chosen, despite the risk of unconstitutionality recalled by the rapporteur, to implement the commitment of the President of the Republic to declare ineligible any candidate whose Bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record contained a reference to conviction for certain offences limited to those listed. This was the subject of a bill tabled by the Socialist Group under the previous parliamentary term and unanimously adopted by our Assembly on 1 February. If I believe the amendments tabled for the public sitting, the Members of the majority, who are at the origin of the redrafting of Article 1e r in committee, would finally like to return to the original mechanism proposed by the Government. Thus, the risk of unconstitutionality, which had been rejected in committee to adopt another mechanism, now serves as a justification to reverse. These floats and shifts are proof that we are legislating in a hasty manner and that, in reality, you have no clear idea of the direction and ambition you want to give to the texts on the framework of access to mandates and responsibilities. I would add that the adoption of the general rewrite amendment proposed by our rapporteur has truncated the debate by dropping – logically – all the amendments that were intended to extend or define the offences concerned differently. The possible adoption of a new amendment of general rewriting in a public meeting would be another blow to the quality of our debates, since it would have the same consequences: to drop amendments which could usefully widen the scope of the offences concerned. Whatever the mechanism chosen – the one that our commission has adopted or the one that the Government defends – the New Left Group will propose to make racially and homophobic violence and insults or to apologies for crimes against humanity that make any candidate in an election ineligible. With regard to articles 4 to 8 of the Organic Bill, concerning the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with certain advisory activities, we know that our room for manoeuvre is clearly limited by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. In its decision of 9 October 2013 on the Organic Law on the Transparency of Public Life, the latter censored a paragraph stipulating that "an MP shall be prohibited from acting as counsel, except in the context of a liberal profession subject to legislative or regulatory status or whose title is protected and which he was exercising before the beginning of his term of office". It found that the legislator had "introduced prohibitions which, by their scope, clearly exceed what is necessary to protect the freedom of choice of the elector, the independence of the elected candidate or to prevent the risk of confusion or conflict of interest". We will present several amendments which, while strictly within the framework of the Constitution and this case law, aim to reinforce the requirements of incompatibility. Our ultimate objective is, in fact, quite clear: it is for us – it would be a measure of public salvation – to prohibit any Member from exercising a consultative function.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u257	For, let us make it clear, the new prohibitions provided for in Article 5 of the Organic Bill remain cosmetic. It is nevertheless, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that the best way to ensure compliance with presidential commitments and to improve the provisions of these bills is to adopt this motion for referral to committee. In this way, we could resume the work of amendment and, above all, examine these texts after the adoption of the constitutional revision that you have announced. The second advantage of voting on this motion to refer is, as I said right now, to give us more time to legislate. The timetable for the examination of both texts is defiant: the Senate adopted them in open session on Wednesday, July 12th; A week later, we examined them in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure with a view to a debate in the House from 24 July. It is impossible for us to work properly under these conditions. I note, moreover, that several of the amendments tabled in committee received an unfavourable opinion from the rapporteur on the grounds that the committee had not been able to assess them. More generally, it is totally counterproductive to vote hastily for texts aimed at restoring confidence in public life. The subject is important enough to give Parliament time to legislate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u258	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u259	And nothing would be worse than having to adopt, in the coming months, a new law of moralization, because any one would have been the subject of judicial information or an investigation for offences or acts that would not have been provided for in those texts. This would feed the suspicion of our fellow citizens that legislation is of every circumstance. I would like to say this again: my point – you have already understood it by hearing the interventions of my colleagues in the New Left Group – is not intended to challenge the appropriateness of these bills. On the contrary, we want to take advantage of the consideration of this motion to refer to the fact that several provisions proposed either by the Government or by parliamentarians, both members of Parliament and senators, are important advances that we support. However, we want to have time to go further and improve your text to make it even more effective. Without being exhaustive, I am thinking of section 2 of the ordinary bill, in its version passed by the Law Committee, which introduces the concept of conflict between several public interests, or section 2 of the organic bill, which extends the scope of the declaration of interest and activities of parliamentarians. I am also thinking of article 7 bis of the ordinary bill, which makes the supplementary allowances paid to certain parliamentarians in special functions taxable, or article 2 A of the organic bill, which punishes the collection of illegal public remuneration by parliamentarians. I am still thinking of articles 7 ter A and 7 ter of the ordinary bill, which strengthen the procedure for the appointment of members of the Government and extend the scope of the procedure for verifying their tax situation. Finally, I am thinking of clause 7 of the ordinary bill, which is a fundamental reform of the mechanism for the reimbursement of parliamentary mandate fees, and of the clauses of the two bills, which are designed to clean up the financing of public life and to create a mediator for the funding of candidates and parties. All this goes in the right direction, but other provisions deserve to be incorporated into the texts or improved. While the distrust of the political staff is strong, we cannot stop in the middle of the ford or, worse, retreat, as has already been the case since the beginning of the discussion of the text. We regret, therefore, that, in the Committee on Laws, we have restricted the High Authority's right of direct communication for the transparency of public life to relations only with banks and insurance companies. The broader perimeter retained by senators was the right one. The High Authority has proved its usefulness. We can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, We must give him the full means to act. In addition, several additional articles voted by the Senate, which were in the right direction, were deleted in the Committee on Laws, for no valid reason or for questionable reasons such as the lack of time to evaluate the mechanisms. To limit myself to the ordinary bill alone, I regret the deletion of section 1 ter, which limited the application of Bercy's lock or allowed it to be circumvented. For our part, we propose the total elimination of this democratic anomaly. I am also thinking of the deletion of Article 2 bis A, which strengthened the framework for conflicts of interest in the public service. In this regard, I regret that we have not been able to incorporate more provisions concerning the senior public service and that the scope of the text is limited to parliamentarians alone. I am still thinking of the deletion of article 2 bis, which I have already mentioned, which created a register of the deportation of members of the Government, article 2 ter A, which prohibited the Government from issuing instructions in connection with the issuance of the tax certificate, and article 2 ter B, which prevented a former official from carrying out consultancy activities in connection with his previous office for a period of three years. We also regret the deletion of article 2 ter C, which prohibited an official from performing a public service mission in connection with a previous activity, that of article 2 ter D, which better regulated the activities of interest representatives, that of article 2 ter E, which dealt with the reimbursement of allowances received by certain officials during their schooling as a result of slippers and, lastly, that of article 7 ter B, which provided that a decree should define the conditions for the payment of the expenses of reception and representation of members of the Government, on presentation of evidence. One of two things: either you consider that these provisions are timely and go in the right direction but that the time was short and, in this case, we must resume the examination in committee; either you consider these provisions inappropriate, and then you will have to say why the majority refuses to go towards more transparency and ethics. In addition to these deletions of articles, a large number of amendments were rejected, which were intended to strengthen the provisions of these two bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u260	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u261	For example, we want to make public the identity of any natural person making a donation or granting a personal loan of more than €2,500 to a candidate or party for an election campaign. Citizens are entitled to know who are the main contributors to the financing of political parties and candidates for an election. The Senate had passed an obligation to make public the identity of natural and legal persons who loaned to finance election campaigns. However, this obligation was removed for private persons alone, as if the identity of public persons was less difficult to assume than that of private persons. We also want to ensure that the parliamentary mandate is incompatible with the exercise of another paid professional function. Without being unconstitutional, the amendment we will introduce in this direction will help to avoid conflicts of interest and promote the full-time exercise of the mandate in the service of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u262	This will make elect completely cut off from the reality of things and life!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u263	As far as representatives of interests are concerned, our ambition is to go further than what is proposed in Article 6a introduced in the Committee on Laws by our rapporteur. This section prohibits any Member from acting as an interest representative on behalf of the companies, undertakings or establishments referred to in section L.O. 146 of the Electoral Code. Why not go further by generally prohibiting parliamentarians from starting or continuing to carry out advocacy activities? This would be a significant step forward in the fight against potential conflicts of interest. I come to a subject that is very close to my heart, which also requires time and therefore justifies a review of these texts in committee: the crime of illegal taking of interest. I mentioned it before you in the Committee on the Laws, Madam Keeper of the Seals, highlighting two points. On the one hand, it would be necessary to change its definition, because the imprecision of the drafting leads to the condemnation each year of some 20 local elected officials who have not enjoyed any personal advantage. On the other hand, there is a problem of coordination between the provisions of the ordinary draft law on the employment of family workers and article 432-12 of the Criminal Code. The case law of the Court of Cassation, which is more severe than that of the administrative judge, shows this: an elected official who includes a member of his or her family among the members of his or her cabinet or close collaborators may be sentenced for unlawful taking of interest. In this context, he is liable to a penalty of five years' imprisonment and a fine of 500,000 euros. On the other hand, under the current version of article 5 of the ordinary bill, which prohibits local elected officials from having family members in their office, an elected official will be sentenced to three years' imprisonment and a fine of 45,000 euros. Thus, a mayor could be sentenced to five years' imprisonment and a fine of 500,000 euros for illegal taking of interest for hiring his cousin in his office, but to only three years' imprisonment and a fine of 45000 euros under article 5 of the bill, if he hired his son or daughter. We are therefore faced, at a minimum, with a problem of coordination between the ordinary bill and this article of the Penal Code. We hope that the referral back to committee will allow us to respond to it. The subject of family employment also allows me to address the question of the status of political collaborators. These women and men who work daily with the elected representatives of our country are indispensable for the proper functioning of democracy. Their role is unknown, often ungrateful, and when we talk about them, it's mostly because of a media scandal. It is time to get this profession out of the shadows, to give it a status – I am thinking in particular of parliamentary collaborators. [[Smile]] Contrary to what we sometimes hear, it is a profession that has a long and rich past. I am thinking, for example, of Julien Sorel, Parliamentary Secretary to the Marquis de La Mole in Le Rouge et le Noir, who could act as a literary patron saint of parliamentary collaborators.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u264	It's not renewal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u265	[[Applause on several benches]] Several political figures in our country have, some day or another, been parliamentary collaborators: ministers, former Prime Ministers, parliamentarians – I am in the process – and even the new President of the National Assembly. The ordinary bill submitted by the Government aimed to prohibit family employment in Parliament, in line with the commitment made by the President of the Republic during the campaign. We all know the origin of this promise and the case – which now bears a first name – that justifies it, in any case allows us to put forward this argument. From our point of view, this case raises more the problem of the effectiveness of the work of parliamentary collaborators than that of family jobs. I know of family jobs – to use this term – that are not fictional jobs, and we know that not all fictional jobs are just family jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u266	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u267	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u268	However, this bill prohibits the use of family employment. We take note of this proposal, even though it leads me to make two points. First, it is probably impossible to find an ideal scope for defining family jobs. What about former spouses or cousins? I am also surprised that the rapporteur, by an amendment in committee, has excluded brothers and sisters from the scope of the close family. Secondly, the best way to monitor the effectiveness of the work of parliamentary collaborators will, again and again, be to recognize them a status with related rights and duties. It is quite symptomatic that the bill that is being introduced is deadlocking on the subject, although, in the Senate and then in the law committee, we wanted to correct this anomaly with sections 3 bis and 6 bis, which will allow our collaborators to find a statute and references, even if the work is just beginning and there is still a lot to do. On the other hand, it is surprising that employees who have been dismissed because of the end of a parliamentary term are now required to be dismissed on personal grounds. This not only leads to confusion between the reason for dismissal and the procedure for dismissal, but also reduces the rights of employees who have been dismissed. This question is not to be taken lightly, since the previous legislature ended with the dismissal of more than 1000 employees. In fact, this movement is not over, since a number of groups in our assembly have disappeared or have to reduce their numbers and do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u269	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u270	Voting on the motion for referral back to committee will therefore give us more time to work on the definition of family jobs and the status of employees, parliamentarians or cabinet employees, but also on all the articles and amendments I mentioned earlier. I shall conclude, Madam Commissioner, by broadening the scope of my remarks. We are starting today to consider bills that are expected by the French. As the many echoes of our committee work have shown, we are being looked at, and we know that. If I believe the various comments made by the President of the Republic during the campaign and since his inauguration, transparency and confidence in public action are matters that he attaches to heart. It therefore seems, at first glance, incomprehensible that the Government should impose on us a timetable for the consideration of such binding and disorderly texts. However, I note that this is not the first time since the beginning of the legislature that the executive has not respected Parliament's rights and role. Two recent examples come to mind: firstly, the unnecessary use of ordinances to reform the social dialogue, with an authorization for Parliament to vote when the dialogue between the Government and the social partners has not been completed; Secondly, the President of the Republic's public framing of the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, while the remarks which aroused the anger of the Chief Executive were kept secret from the work of the Defence Committee of the National Assembly. This shows that Parliament's right to be informed, and to be fully informed, is being ignored. The content of the draft laws on confidence in public life and the amendments and positions defended by the Government during their consideration in committee are consistent. First, we can regret that the title is misleading. We are talking about public life, but we have been denied the possibility of introducing provisions concerning civil servants, the senior civil service and, in many cases, the members of the Government. Rather, we should talk about political life, and perhaps only about parliamentary life. We regret, like others, that the main provisions of the texts focus exclusively on parliamentarians. At the same time, several initiatives by senators or members of Parliament to strengthen the obligations of ministers were rejected for questionable reasons. Thus, we are asked to vote for the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, which has been egalitarian and transparent since 2013, but at the same time we are invited to maintain the ministerial reserve, whose scope and operation are more opaque.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u271	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u272	The friends' store!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u273	In addition, there is virtually no provision in the texts for local elected officials and local authorities. In the end, would these texts not have the sole purpose of enabling Jupiter to clean up the parliamentary chambers, considered popinae, these taverns of bad repute in ancient Rome? It is legitimate to ask the question and to question the report that the executive wants to have with Parliament. [["Congratulation! » on several benches of the LR group]] I would like to ask another question, in the form of regret. What vision does the executive have of the role of MPs? We are all elected from the nation, but we all have a territory of election, on which we live – most of us, at least – and where we spend much of our time. Without this being contradictory to our mandate as legislator, we are privileged interlocutors for the inhabitants of our constituency and we often relay their questions at the national level. Clearly, this territorial anchor is increasingly disputed, not only with the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, which can be debated, but also with the refusal to give, for example, the possibility to all members of a constituency to participate in the commission for the allocation of equipment to rural territories. It is all the more regrettable that the constitutional reform announced by the President of the Republic will lead to two types of deputies: those elected proportionally, without territorial anchoring, and those elected by single-member suffrage in constituencies which, by definition, will be larger.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u274	MPs out of the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u275	[["Very fair! »on several benches of the LR group]] If the Government wants, in the long term, to completely remove the territorial anchor of the deputies, let it say it and assume it! In any case, the generalization of proportional representation and the revision of the rights and duties of parliamentarians cannot be achieved without a substantial upgrading of the means given to parliamentarians to carry out their constitutional tasks and without a real discussion of the role and status of parliamentarians. In conclusion, I would like to say that we obviously have a great responsibility in the French image of their national representation. Let us not be afraid to question certain practices of other times, whether they concern Parliament, the executive, or any other sphere of public life. Nor should we be afraid to set an example in the area of transparency and the fight against conflicts of interest. Let us be exemplary every day, in every act of ours. It could also go through, for example, not giving responsibility in this House to colleagues on the probity of which we do not have all the guarantees, or who have uttered absolutely unacceptable words. I am thinking in particular of a colleague who considers homosexuality to be an abomination and who, by virtue of the majority fact, is exercising responsibilities in this house. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] Pierre Mendès France said that democracy was first and foremost a state of mind. We could say that virtue in politics is also, and above all, a state of mind. Madam Minister, you called earlier for pedagogy and said that the Government might have missed it when it asked for the rejection of the motions for rejection. I call on you to allow us, too, the time for pedagogy and work, by referring this text back to the Committee on Laws in order to complete it. The commitments made to the French must be fully respected, and we must avoid the setbacks that sound like renunciations. The debate too fast, the reversed timetable which undermines the ambition of your text, and the lack of reflection on the role and status of parliamentarians in the new institutional framework are the reasons why the New Left Group calls on all Members to adopt this motion for referral to committee and to give Parliament time to legislate properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u276	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u277	Madam President, honourable Member, thank you very much for this very dense speech, which recalls all the amendments that you will be presenting in the course of the debates and on which I will therefore not go back in detail. I just want to make a few remarks. You are proposing a motion to refer the matter back to committee for further work on the text, but the committee has already done a great deal of work and the elements that have come to us have, from this point of view, been extremely valuable. So you will not be surprised that I am not in favour of your proposal for referral back to committee. Indeed, it seems to me that this text is a founding act – I believe I have already used this word.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u278	All the ministers said it before you!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u279	Another passing minister who says that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u280	It was intended and conceived as such. It seems important that, from the outset, we should be able to take an extremely important step, within time limits that do not extend beyond the strict necessary. I believe, indeed, that the decisions you take will be extremely revealing of what the National Assembly and, more generally, Parliament will want to be and do. It's not a text of circumstance. Of course, there have been circumstantial elements, but it is an early parliamentary text and, for this reason, it is extremely important that it be adopted in time that is both in line with the requirements of parliamentary scrutiny and relatively rapid. With regard to the ground of unconstitutionality, which you accuse the Government of invoking somewhat abusively, I would like to say that the Government's objective is to give concrete expression to the words of the President of the Republic and to what will be the will of parliamentarians. Our ongoing concern is to make effective the will of the representatives of the nation and the provisions which they wish to highlight, in terms of conflicts of interest, compensation representative of mandate costs, or conditions of ineligibility. That is our concern. We'll return to the blank criminal record. It is a perfectly laudable intention and I understand it as such. The provisions we have reached make it possible, on the constitutional level, to achieve the same result. That's why we're offering them to you. You will understand, honourable Member, that as the keeper of the seals, I am particularly committed to ensuring that the provisions that you adopt are effective, in conformity with the Constitution. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Finally, with regard to certain provisions, such as those relating to the MFRI or family employment, the work already carried out leads to effective and coherent solutions. The debate we are going to hold in the next three days will allow us to finalize the provisions you wish to adopt. For all these reasons, it seems to me that it is not appropriate to refer the matter back to committee. I would add that the constitutional review provisions that will be proposed next year will allow you to complete this bill. These are the reasons why I am against referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u281	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u282	In a few days, we have conducted more than 20 hearings in committee. I do not think that if we had had more time to study this bill, we would have conducted more hearings, within the scope of this bill. In addition, the arguments that you put forward in support of your motion have been the subject of very lengthy debate and have been put to the vote in committee. I do not think it would have been necessary to vote again in committee. Finally, with regard to all the provisions relating to the status of civil servants, I repeat what I said in committee: the last law on this subject, dating back to just 18 months, it seems to me necessary to evaluate, in the context of a fact-finding mission, the latest texts adopted by Parliament, before considering new arrangements. As I said, we will be able to discuss this at the next bureau meeting, which will take place the day after tomorrow, so that we can move forward on this issue as soon as we get back to school. It would be wise to do so rather than re-examine this text in committee next week, without any new elements that could change our votes and positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u283	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr François Ruffin, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke in favour of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u284	Good evening! Minister, since we are talking about trust and transparency, I will have to ask you a question very directly. Sanofi had the honour of receiving the Prime Minister of France, Édouard Philippe. It was last Thursday. Although this information is well on Sanofi's website, it is nowhere else, as Sanofi's employees have not been informed of it, nor have the trade unions, the media and the French. This visit was made in catimini. It seems that this invitation originated from the Circle of Industry, which is a corporate lobby that includes, besides Sanofi, including Areva, Arcelor, PSA, Total and Valeo. What did Serge Weinberg and Édouard Philippe say? The Sanofi website states that this visit highlights the Prime Minister's commitment and interest in innovation and research. It's very vague. What did they say about the research tax credit, of which Sanofi is the first beneficiary, even though 32% of research positions are currently being abolished? What did they say about the competitiveness employment tax credit, about tax optimisation, of which Sanofi is a leader or about vaccines – a matter on the agenda? Did Sanofi take advantage of this visit to advance his private interests? Why this lack of transparency on Prime Minister Édouard Philippe's visit? Here we want to talk about trust and transparency: that is the whole problem of this text. We are talking about allowances, ineligibility or the parliamentary reserve, at a time when we have a government that has never been more in the service of the MEDEF, and so visibly. It's big not like the nose in the middle of the face, but like a hippopotamus in a hallway. On the one hand, we have, for some, the labour law, the reduction of corporate and wealth taxes and, on the other, for the poor, the reduction of LPOs and the increase of the CSG. If you want to be transparent and ethical and if you want to restore confidence, the best way to do this is not to organise visits at the request of employers' organisations. Discussions must take place in public.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u285	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u286	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I will vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee. We have nothing against discussing the representative allowance for mandate expenses and other matters. But it is not even in the middle of the ford that we stop, it is at the very beginning of the crossing, when it is a matter of cutting the cord between the MEDEF and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u287	Mr Sebastien Jumel, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u288	Madam President, Madam Minister, the problem with this text is that it is so much that it is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u289	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u290	In order to justify the motion for referral back to committee, I would like to point out that we would like to see in committee the reasons which lead to the conclusion that, whatever the successive governments, a crisis of confidence reappears. It is that the word given, in particular the word of the State, is not held. Thus, in 1995, Jacques Chirac managed to bring France together around the generous idea of fighting the social divide and he took out the Juppé ordinances. In 2012, François Hollande announced that he wanted to wage a war on finance and released the CICE. In 2017, with a little bit of political magic, Emmanuel Macron campaigned on the blur, and, from the moment he was elected – confidence did not take long to unscrew, and even in a spectacular way in recent days – he hit us to attack the proximity that, from my point of view, is a guarantee of confidence between citizens and public action – I obviously want to talk about the fate reserved by the President of the Republic to the communes. It also blows us to make the poorest – because, as Coluche said, they are the most numerous – with the measure taken this weekend on the APL, about which President Macron refers the ball to President Hollande, which shows that at the end of the day the same goals are pursued. It is your words, minister, that make me react: you have stated that the members of the nation are not the emanation of their constituency, or even of their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u291	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u292	This is a very serious point.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u293	He's ashamed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u294	He's making us MPs out of the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u295	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] I think that, in the face of the forgotten of the Republic, in the face of the territories abandoned by the Republic, the role of the parliamentarians we are also, in this Chamber, where we feel that we are swimming in luxury, calm and voluptuousness, representing our territories, guaranteeing that France which is missing, France which suffers are well represented. And as long as we have the energy, we will bear the voice of these territories here, including through the text before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u297	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor for the La République Group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u298	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for several hours now we have been told that this text does not go far enough, does not bring anything, worse, than it would be a mere communication exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u299	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u300	The purpose of this bill is to create more transparency and control over political life in order to avoid the drifts that we know and that splinter all policies while they are the work of a minority. Yes, this text is important.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u301	No, it's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u302	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The French show us, through their abstention from the elections, the strength of their impatience to see the reforms carried out because what destroys confidence is also inaction, slowness and immobilism. I say to those who want to make it appear that we are legislating for the next legislature, that it is they who are making this forum a tool for communication, even propaganda.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u303	It's called the tribe of the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u304	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] ...because this reform will of course apply as soon as it is promulgated. To those who have said that we would not have gone to the end of our debates, I would point out that during the thirteen hours of hearing and the seventeen hours spent in the Committee on Laws, all the subjects were discussed, in particular those submitted by the opposition. This was the case with the majority at 16 years of age, the composition of representative bodies of employers' groups or the financing of the press. We were even able to discuss the establishment of a possible VIth Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u305	You rejected everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u306	[[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] If you had wanted to discuss other issues, I'm sure you wouldn't have taken it away. So, of course, constitutional reform is still needed. I hope that this week of discussion of the text in public session will allow us to refine it. However, we are pragmatic and wish to move forward. The French are legitimately waiting for a more transparent and well-structured public life. This is the objective – and achieved – of this text. They also expect their political representatives to be effective. For all these reasons, I will vote against this motion for dismissal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u307	Mrs Annie Genevard, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u308	Madam Chair, Madam Custody of Seals, the rapporteur, our colleague Olivier Dussopt has argued that this bill should be referred to committee: we agree with this request. Madam Keeper of the Seals, you defend yourself from making us legislate in emotion and in the circumstances. But you justified the text by the irrepressible will of our fellow citizens to put an end to unacceptable behaviour on the part of some. This urgency is, in fact, commanded by the will of the President of the Republic to have a law passed before the summer. What does precipitation and the errors that always result from it matter? [[Murmures on the benches of the REM group]] We must come back to the committee to take up the question of the parliamentary reservation, which you have decided to delete out of pure ideology and out of total ignorance of the subject on the part of some, whereas in our view this is a major subject, of which too many Members of the Republic are unaware of the usefulness. Have you, ladies and gentlemen, asked yourself whether the parliamentary reserve was useful? Yes, the parliamentary reserve is useful to the territories, it must be recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u309	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u310	We have to come back to committee to take the time for reflection. The restoration of the people's confidence in their elected representatives is a major subject, that is true. But this law stigmatizes only parliamentarians, and the only debate we are discussing will, I fear, increase this mistrust instead of fighting it. Do we protest against the loss of autonomy of a Parliament now under guardianship and the loss of resources to carry out its mandate, that we will see it as a venal attachment to unfair advantages! We defend the idea that one can continue to pursue a professional activity at the same time as the parliamentary mandate, that one will only see in it the lure of gain! We defend the maintenance of the parliamentary reserve, that we will see there the demonstration of an unbearable clientelism! This debate, as you can see, is trapous and the examples could be multiplied. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, Madam Keeper of the Seals, after thirty and a text having for twenty-two years the same object with the same impotence to restore trust, let us return to committee and reflect on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u311	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u312	On the motion for referral to committee on the ordinary bill, a request for a public vote is before me by the New Left Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sophie Mette, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u313	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we see no reason to justify the return of this bill to committee, nor do we see any reason for the motion to reject it beforehand. The Commission's work has been laborious, serious and conscientious.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u314	Laborious: the word is clumsy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u315	The French discontent with disputed and outdated political practices is great. There seems to be no justification for delaying the discussion and vote on this draft...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u316	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u317	... which we promised our fellow citizens to adopt to ensure that our practices are renewed. It is simply a matter of implementing an essential commitment of the presidential campaign, which has been reasonably prepared by the Government and the two Houses of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u318	And especially by Bayrou before he was liquidated!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u319	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] We therefore wish to proceed to the discussion and vote on this bill without further delay. We will therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u320	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u321	Minister, you explained to us that you were living this text as a founding text. You are certainly right, even if the term "founder" seems somewhat excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u322	This isn't an epic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u323	To be here for several years, I know that we have already evolved a lot on the topics covered in this text, and fortunately! But if it is a founding text, then it must be referred back to committee, because the work we did there last week is not satisfactory. Often an amendment by the Government or the rapporteur dropped dozens and dozens of others. A few votes have even been recast in conditions that I will call folkloric. A text of this quality and importance on matters of concern to us and of interest to the French deserves that we take the time to discuss it quietly.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u324	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u325	You also mentioned the hearings. It is true, there were hearings, but they took place before we knew the final text of the Senate. Is that a way of working? I don't think so. The subject really deserves us to spend time on it again. It is a matter not of substance but of form. This text deserves to be studied in depth by the House because it is good to review family jobs, but not to mention the status of employees, it is not good. While we should really talk about this, we have not had the time to do so. Similarly, as Annie Genevard pointed out, the issue of the parliamentary reserve deserves better than being evacuated without any other form of trial. The parliamentary reserve allows municipalities to finance many small projects and many associations to live.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u326	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u327	[[Applause on the benches of the LC, LR, NG, GDR and FI groups]] Nor can you explain to us that it has nothing to do with the ministerial reserve or the presidential reserve, even though it is exactly the same thing. If a parliamentarian cannot distribute money, why could a minister? We simply ask that these three reservations be placed on an equal footing. [[Applause on the benches of the LC and LR groups, as well as on several benches of the NG, GDR and FI groups]] For all these reasons and without trying to overburden the debate we will have this week, we are obviously in favour of this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u328	Mrs Cécile Untermaier, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u329	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of rejecting a text by this motion for reference, but simply, in the interests of our demands as parliamentarians, of reworking it together because it suffers from a great number of shortcomings. The Council of State itself has repeatedly denounced the inadequacy of the impact assessment. However, curiously, this denunciation, of importance since it concerns a precondition for our work, has not aroused any particular emotion. The Government has continued its course and, in the Law Commission, we have not asked ourselves whether this impact assessment does not justify its dismissal. However, it would have been quite possible to ask for it in order to require a study that would allow us to base our reflections. We will also table an amendment to make the impact assessment a primary consideration of the so-called founding texts. Our reservations relate to a bill that, essentially limiting itself to the elected representatives of the nation, stigmatizes them while the perimeter should have been extended to the entire public sphere.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u330	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u331	The haste does not sit on the legislative work,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u332	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u333	... especially in the field of ethics, which requires a substantive approach. The ethical values respected by parliamentarians must be shared by members of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u334	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u335	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u336	We regret that we have not been able to benefit from a comprehensive reflection, which would have been useful to all. This is not a trench war. Nor is there any question of whether one is pragmatic, slow, efficient or effective. In this House, we must be concerned about the adoption of a quality text that responds to our ethical concerns, which are also those of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u337	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u338	[[Applause on the benches of the NG, LR, LC, FI and GDR groups]] That is why we are asking you to refer this bill back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u339	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee on the ordinary bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u340	Come on, one more little effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u341	The majority are in command!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u342	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion for referral to committee on the organic bill, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u343	Madam President, Mrs La Garde des Seales, Mrs La rapporteure, ladies and gentlemen, for years the French have been overwhelmingly rejecting politicians and the press. This mistrust is manifested by anger, which we all feel on the ground, in our communes. The general exasperation also translates into an ever greater abstention, which undermines our democracy. The observation is overwhelming and binding on all of us. Who can deny the extent of such malaise? Of course, the repeated scandals that have affected politicians have accelerated this trend. How could it be otherwise when a minister of the current budget denies under oath the existence, though very real, of a bank account opened in Switzerland? Or when the bridges between the financial and political circles become so porous that our fellow citizens feel that everyone is using and defending their particular interest to the detriment of the general interest? Yes, on these issues, it is important to act clearly, severely. We must send a strong message to the French, without giving the impression of reacting after every scandal. That is why this organic bill should not stop in the middle of the ford, nor should it give the impression that politicians and senior government officials will continue to be free from certain rules of ethics and transparency. I'll come back. Above all, the gap between our fellow citizens and those they elect is widening over the years because of successive denials, unfulfilled promises, and even lies to be elected. At each election, we hear the greatest promises about employment, purchasing power and a better life. Unfortunately, election after election, majorities change and succeed without the vast majority of French people seeing their lives improve. Worse, the policies implemented serve first of all an elite, and the gap between our citizens and their elected representatives is widening at the same rate as inequalities are increasing. So, what's the point of voting? What good is it to be interested in politics, since in the end it is always the same people who pay and always the same ones who benefit? Rebuilding confidence in politics may be asking us about our role and our mission. We have the imperative to improve the lives of the French, to restore their purchasing power, to enable them to work, to live in dignity, to care for themselves, to learn, to grow normally and to enjoy a peaceful retirement. Moreover, the Minister of Action and Public Accounts should be careful when announcing, whenever he speaks out – what he is passionate about – that the measures adopted by the Government will allow workers to earn 21 euros more per month. The announcements that we all heard this weekend on the reduction of housing subsidies by 5 euros per month and on the end of the regulated tariffs for gas and electricity...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u344	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u345	...will quickly show that this is not reality. Again, disappointment will be great. In our ridings, we also hear the French say: "But anyway, you can't do anything up there! It is Europe that decides everything! Isn't that the most serious?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u346	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u347	The discussion of this organic bill is also an opportunity to ask ourselves about our role, about the mission of the members of the nation and about that of all elected representatives. As Members, do we really have the power to prevent the closure of a company and to save the jobs concerned? Do we really have the power to prevent the decline of our public services in our communes, especially in rural communes? Can we prevent a class closure in a city? Do we have the power to decide our fiscal policy sovereignly, without being obliged to follow the recommendations of the European Commission? The fundamental question becomes this: except on societal issues, who today makes the major decisions for our country: the political world and the elected representatives of the nation we are, or the markets motivated by the mere notion of profit?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u348	Yes! That's the real question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u349	Gradually, we have abandoned to the economic world the bulk of our levers. As we see it, the challenge is to show the French that we can regain control of the economy and make our choices sovereignly again, independently. It is imperative to put the economy at the service of our country, at the service of human development.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u350	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u351	This means making budgetary choices together in the interests of the greatest number of people, be they the French or other European peoples, or for our planet, for the preservation of our natural resources. In an increasingly financialized economy, in a world in the midst of a digital revolution where giants are increasingly going to control our lives and decide tomorrow what we should read, learn or eat, politics must not go back. On the contrary, it must be, more than ever, the only way to put progress at the service of humanity, at the service of the greatest number, so that we can live together and be happy together. We must give ourselves the means to do so. The bosses of these digital giants are among the eight largest fortunes in the world, which hold as much wealth as the poorest half of the planet, i.e. as much as the 3 billion poorest inhabitants. It is these multinationals that benefit from tax optimisation, with the agreement of our banks, unscrupulous and without being worried for a moment. That is why I wish to question the Speaker of the National Assembly. I find it particularly scandalous that Amendments Nos 308 and 309, tabled by us, were considered inadmissible and aimed at punishing those who encourage or incite the practice of tax evasion. We were opposed to the fact that these amendments would have no connection, even indirect, with any provision of the bill for trust in public life.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u352	It's democratic renewal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u353	Restoring the integrity and honesty of finance in the banking community: would all of this have no connection, even indirect, with the need to restore confidence in public life?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u354	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u355	Madam President, according to the Rules of Procedure of this House, it is up to you to assess whether these amendments are related to the texts we are considering. I therefore ask you to allow us to defend them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u356	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u357	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u358	Yes, we must regain control of the economy, otherwise the gap between the French and politics is widening. It is imperative to restore power to politics, in the noble sense of the term. We all have the means to do so, not to mention our wealth, which makes our country one of the world's great economic powers. Yet we must have the will not to let finance control our economy and take one more ounce of power after election. All elected officials have been on the bench for months, even years, as scandals come to light. All the elected are pointed at because of the dishonesty of a handful of them. The amalgams and the generalization of "all rotten" have only magnified the feeling of rejection on the part of our fellow citizens. This general movement also denigrates the parties and their role. Is it not possible, by pointing at the elected representatives, the parties and the parliamentarians, to weaken democracy as well? While elected officials and parties are on the grill and even doubting their usefulness, finance expands its web and takes more and more power. According to the famous Chinese proverb, when the wise man shows the moon, the fool looks at the finger. While democracy is weakened, let us not feel that we are attacking elected officials when the problem is elsewhere! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR and LC groups, as well as on some benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Allow me to greet here the 521661 municipal councillors of France, including 307463 in villages with less than 1000 inhabitants,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u359	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u360	... because they are not at all in the image of those who have covered the chronicle in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u361	These are volunteers!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u362	With this organic bill, don't put on the bench all those elected officials who don't count.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u363	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u364	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, as well as on several benches of the REM, MODEM, LR, LC and FI groups]] Let us be careful not to cast reproach on those who struggle to make our territories live, to preserve proximity, ruralness and services to the inhabitants. They sacrifice their evenings, weekends and often their family life. Many are volunteers or very modestly compensated. Without them, France would not be what it is and our Republic would be even more damaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u365	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u366	So yes, let us make sure that we do not unjustly expose local elected officials who suffer from this growing mistrust, which they express through numerous resignations since the last municipal elections. In the North, my department, 312 elected municipal officials, all political positions and trends, returned their scarf between March 2014 and March 2015. The same is true in other departments. These examples remind us of how fragile local democracy, to which we are all attached, is. It's up to us to preserve it by avoiding amalgams! We also talked about this during the debates in committee: all the elected representatives of the Republic need a real status that would allow more of our fellow citizens to engage without fear of losing their jobs. In fact, our Assembly lacks Members from factories and the world of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u367	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u368	It's a big project, every time promised but never realized. We hope that it will finally be opened during this parliamentary term. Yes, we must restore meaning and authority to politics, give power back to every Frenchman and make our fellow citizens decision-makers of the nation's economic choices. We must stop saying "we can't, it's not Eurocompatible", or "it's not possible, we're too indebted", or "it's impossible to implement because we're held by the markets". [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] Finally, I ask you this question: when will our country and our Parliament dare to implement a great law of separation of finance and the state,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u369	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u370	... in the same way as in 1905, MP Aristide Briand proposed the great law of separation of the Church and the State?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u371	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u372	This is a strong and courageous act, which would give meaning to our commitment and confidence in public action, as would the organization of a global tax COP that would support the fight for greater tax justice on a global scale. In the meantime, we could adopt in session, with this piece of legislation, measures allowing us to move in this direction, for example, to put an end to Bercy's famous lock...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u373	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u374	... or to severely regulate the practice of slippers and to put an end to the conflicts of interest that engulf French political life and administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u375	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u376	This is the path we must follow if we are to restore our credibility and, above all, restore hope for political action.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u377	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u378	Danielle Mitterrand recalled in her Memoirs an exchange she had with François Mitterrand shortly after the 1981 victory: "Why, now that you have the power, don't you do what you promised? He replied that he did not have the power to confront the World Bank, capitalism, neoliberalism. That he had won a government, but not power. I thus learned that being the government, being president, does not serve much in these subject societies, subject to capitalism. I lived the experience directly for fourteen years. Even if he tried to avoid the most negative side of capitalism, dreams began to break very quickly. » No one will therefore dispute the merits of a law that would give full authority to politics, to the Republic. Without waiting, today we will have to go to the end and not give the feeling that we are protecting the interests of the elites, because it would be worse than not doing anything. These reservations, the text you are proposing, could have gone in the right direction. To prohibit family employment, to question parliamentary and ministerial reservations, as well as the means of operation granted to elected officials, to improve the traceability of the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns, to give a status to parliamentary collaborators and to enable them, in particular, to pass the internal competitions of the public service:...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u379	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u380	...all these tracks deserve to be explored and enriched. We will make proposals to that effect in our discussions. We must indeed go further. In fact, the Senate had enriched the text in many areas, starting with family employment. Perhaps we should point out here that the problem is more that of fictitious jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u381	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u382	[["Congratulation! » on several benches of the LR group]] How, moreover, can we define this "direct link", introduced in the law, which will now prohibit a parliamentarian from recruiting a "neighbour"? What matters is, however, to provide real work when remuneration is provided for by law. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LR groups]] As for the parliamentary reserve, it is the 146 million euros that the 348 senators and 577 deputies can allocate in their constituencies or departments: it is a straw next to the 9.6 billion that the communities have lost in recent years and the 13 billion that they will lose tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u383	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u384	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LR group]] So re-establish these endowments, and we will no longer talk about the parliamentary reserve which, in this period of advanced austerity, could still make it possible to finance projects of communes or associations, in full transparency and without clientelism, as some of the amendments which we will support make. By adopting many amendments, the Senate has shown us that it is possible to go further in the Government's desire for transparency and clarification. Our group has supported this positive and proactive approach, shared by almost all groups. Yet, without any explanation, the Government has swept these advances away. While in committee most of the groups agreed to support the Senate's amendments, the government forced us to move... back, especially on a subject that is a real sea serpent of our political life: Bercy's famous lock. What we are talking about here is simply financial crime and, behind it, the fight against tax fraud. In terms of transparency, this is a very important subject and a crucial battle for our country, because the shortfall in our budget varies, each year, between 60 and 90 billion euros – each time, the equivalent of our public deficit, which is 71 billion euros. Bercy's lock is the tool that allows the Minister of Economy and Finance to be the only one to be able to accept – but also, most often, prevent – a case of tax evasion from being brought to justice. Thus, the famous budget minister who had an undeclared account in Switzerland...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u385	Who was that?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u386	...was the only one who could pass on his case to justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u387	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u388	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u389	It took the revelations of the press and Mediapart for the truth to break out. There is a better understanding of the perversity of this system, which protects the richest taxpayers, including politicians. How can we still defend this practice on such serious cases?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u390	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u391	How can our fellow citizens have confidence in a majority who defend such prerogatives, as if they wanted to protect themselves, while, for the vast majority, taxpayers do not have the opportunity to negotiate or discuss when the tax authorities catch up with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u392	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u393	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LR groups]] There can be no two righteousnesses depending on whether you are powerful or miserable: there must be only one, and the same for all! In this battle, the creation of a national financial prosecutor's office with certain prerogatives has been one of the most significant advances in law in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u394	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u395	However, article L._228 of the book of tax procedures, which makes the commission of tax offences – CIF –, of which we have already mentioned, the only authority in matters of tax evasion. This Bercy commission, placed directly under the authority of the Minister of Economy, can only decide to transfer the case to criminal justice: this is Bercy's power, Bercy's lock. This exceptional regime, condemned by all professionals in the field of law and figures, starting with the Court of Auditors, must come to an end. Maintaining it would have a disastrous effect in terms of what the bill claims to restore: confidence in public action, and thus in fairness. This famous Bercy lock, the parliamentarians have already blown it up several times in recent years – twice under François Hollande and, recently, in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u396	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u397	But every time, at the last minute, under François Hollande's presidency, the Government restored him here to the National Assembly. What's going on? Under what influence? Who wants to keep his hand to protect his own? Ladies and gentlemen, will you, too, accept Bercy's power so easily?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u398	Ah! Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u399	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LR groups]] Now is the time to show that things are changing. On the benches of the various groups of this assembly, indeed, and we have seen it in committee, a quasi-consensus expresses itself to blow up this privilege from another time. From Republicans to Communists, we almost all agree. This lock is just waiting for you to jump: blow it up and we'll be at your side to take back this Bastille.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u400	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u401	We are convinced, unlike Bercy, that the judiciary has at least as great a capacity to bring in money as arbitrations rendered in secret of offices – if that is the explanation of the current situation. It is a matter of efficiency as well as transparency. The requirement is the same in the fight against slippers and their procession of conflicts of interest. A thousand state officials are affected annually by slippers, i.e. by the transition from the public to the private sector. There is nothing wrong with the existence of bridges between the private and the public,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u402	Depends!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u403	...both of them can, on the contrary, even enrich themselves with each other's experiences. The problem arises when there is a conflict of interest – when the particular interest dominates and prevails over the general interest. In theory, a senior official serves the State for ten years, four of which immediately after graduation, under the penalty of having to repay the "slipper", that is, part of the cost of his studies paid by the State. In practice, however, the deadlines for slippers are becoming shorter, especially for certain State bodies, such as financial inspectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u404	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u405	It is necessary to strengthen legislation and ensure that those who have benefited from our large public schools then serve the State, as provided for by law. Otherwise, sanctions must be greater than expected. The problem comes especially when the desire to go to the private sector is on the missions of our senior officials, especially in finance. To put it plainly, when you run the Treasury or the Autorité des marchés financiers – AMF – or when, as in a recent example, you preside over the European Commission and then intend to go into the private sector, as Mr Barroso has done, you will always be more flexible and more conciliatory with the banks, while you have a mission of general interest, control and regulation. With this porosity between senior officials, politicians and the financial community, how can we be sure that the interests of the State are well defended? Is it the general interest that prevails, or the particular interest of those who seek to leave in private? The case of Bruno Bézard, former director of the Treasury party, who heads a Franco-Chinese fund, one of whose subsidiaries is based in the Cayman Islands, is thus instructive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u406	An absolute scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u407	Or that of François Pérol, deputy secretary general of the Élysée from 2007 to 2009, party president of the BPCE bank, resulting from the merger between the Banque populaire and the Caisse d'savings, a merger which he personally led. The case is currently pending.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u408	What about Mr. Azema's case?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u409	Or the one, less well known, of this consul of France met in 2012 by my colleague Senator Éric Bocquet in Jersey as part of his mission to investigate tax evasion, and who was also representative of the BNP on the spot, at the heart of a well-known tax haven. How can such practices still exist today? In principle, these slippers are supervised by the Public Service Ethics Commission,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u410	Fumistry!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u411	... but this commission is responsible for evaluating thousands of cases a year – that of the official who wants to create a bakery like the one who goes to run a bank. What is really his power and his means? This committee makes only 2% negative opinions a year: this is where we are today. It's up to us to change the deal. For our part, our conviction is that the mix of genders at the highest level of the state is not only harmful, but incompatible with democracy. This mix of genres, we are not alone in denouncing it in our assembly, and it is a good thing that, whatever our sensitivities, we want to improve, clarify and restore some order in this area. At the same time, let's protect whistleblowers, work with NGOs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u412	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u413	... very competent in this field, such as the CCFD or Oxfam. To restore confidence in political life, in public life, is to dare to tackle these practices, it is to restore power to our citizens and to make them actors in the choices of our country, in complete independence. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] That is why we must also put on the agenda the necessary debate on the future of our Republic, its rules and its functioning, for more democracy, more power for the French and more power for politics, towards a VIth Republic. [[Same movements]] The separation of powers between the state and finance is an imperative, as is the removal of the 49-3 and the ordinances, which our fellow citizens reject mostly – we must hear it. In contrast to these practices, we must restore meaning to democracy and the essential role of local elected officials, who should be much more listened to, and pay attention to the monarchical drift in which we slowly commit ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u414	Not so easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u415	[[Smile on several benches]] I'm nice! With our communes and our 35600 mayors, we have an invaluable asset and wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u416	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u417	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LR groups]] Let us remind them of the importance, let us protect them, for they are the true sentinels of our Republic and of our democracy, who know best the reality and diversity of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u418	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u419	Minister, we are engaged in this debate with great conviction and many proposals to ensure that this text truly meets the expectations placed in it. Nevertheless, we deplore the conditions for its examination. It has been presented in haste and is examined in accordance with the accelerated procedure. The organisation of our debates in very short time frames undermines their quality and serenity. [["That's right! » on several benches of the LR group]] In committee, the examination of the text did not inform our work. We believe that parliamentary work has been sloppy and scorned. All important advances in the Senate have been systematically rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u420	Sweeped!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u421	We therefore call for this text to be referred back to the committee to work for its further improvement and we count on mutual respect and listening, so that this reform is also, like our Assembly and our country, rich in its diversity. Since there have been many quotes this afternoon, I would like to end with a quote from Pope Francis – I like to quote it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u422	Ah! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u423	On May 16, 2013, Pope Francis denounced – that is, the importance of the subject – the exponential increase in the income of a minority, while that of the majority weakened, as a result of "a new invisible, sometimes virtual tyranny, which imposes unilaterally, and without possible recourse, its laws and rules", without forgetting "tentacular corruption and selfish tax evasion". It's not from Karl Marx, it's from Pope Francis! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, NG groups, as well as on many benches of the LC and LR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to restore honesty, justice in our economy and in our public life, we solemnly ask you to adopt this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u424	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u425	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u426	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LR groups]] Mr. Member, I agree with you...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u427	Bravo! The meeting is adjourned!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u428	Well done, ma'am. You're brave!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u429	The revolution is on!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u430	Let me complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u431	I agree but...!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u432	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I agree with you that if this text is to rebuild Europe, if this text is to fight against the excesses of financial capitalism, if this text is to think of the Sixth Republic, then it may be necessary to refer the debate back to committee. But I do not think that is exactly the purpose of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u433	We're disappointed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u434	It would be absolutely necessary, no doubt for questions of intelligibility of the text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u435	We understand your complex thinking!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u436	...to refocus our discussions on the very purpose of the text, namely the restoration of confidence in public life, and the provisions contained therein. You have mentioned, Mr President, a number of points which will be debated. My initial ironic comment was not just caustic: it was also intended to recognise, among the points you mentioned – the Bercy lock or parliamentary collaborators, for example –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u437	Or the ministerial reserve?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u438	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] ... proposals that will merit consideration and consideration. The time for debate will be sufficient: I therefore express an opinion against your motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u439	Oh, no! It had begun well!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u440	It's too bad this exit at the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u441	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u442	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] I will stand in solidarity with Mrs.Secretariat of Seals: that will not surprise you. What a suspense! Considering that we waited for the twenty-sixth minute of our colleague's speech to understand why he wished to refer the text back to committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u443	We quickly understood!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u444	You understood before me: I thank you, you're smarter!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u445	It was clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u446	More seriously, the various points that you mentioned in your motion for referral, my colleague, are very interesting and I invite you to enrich the discussions that we will have in committee on Wednesday to make suggestions on the various work that you would like to see dealt with in this Parliament. As Mrs La Garde des Seales rightly said, this text cannot be the receptacle of everything: I agree with her on this point. As I explained at our first bureau meeting, I would like the Law Committee to be a forum for the exchange of views of all the groups in this House. You can usefully direct or direct the work of the committee, but only in this context, and not in the discussion of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u447	It's not enough to hear: you also have to listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u448	We come to the explanations of vote. Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u449	Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party will support this motion for referral back to committee for the many reasons put forward by our colleague from the GDR Group, and above all because, despite the answers given, no substantive political arguments support the refusal of the Government and the rapporteur to go further in the debate. We are told that a number of the amendments defended, both by our colleagues in the GDR and LR groups and by ourselves, are legitimate, but that the National Assembly, meeting to examine a text which is supposed to be a strong text under the accelerated procedure, cannot address them. Even though the text is entitled "Trust in public life" – this is how it will be presented to citizens – the Government and the majority insist on reducing its scope to stigmatization of parliamentary work, refusing to attack corrupters and to deal with all elements of public life that, as part of democratic functioning, should be framed, more transparent. This text, which is extremely small, falls short of the ambitions shown. Despite the denials, this is a purely media and circumstantial communication by the Government. It contains blatant contradictions, which we have already highlighted in committee, because of the fierce defence of the privileges and prerogatives of the executive. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We must refer this text back to committee in order to allow for genuine parliamentary work. We are not here to make optional suggestions, but to write the law. That is our responsibility: let us all take it together and refer it back to committee so that a genuine parliamentary debate can take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u450	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u451	Madam President, Mrs La Garde des Seales, Mrs La Rapporteure, ladies and gentlemen: restoring confidence, you say! I don't know what you did this weekend; In Le Havre, for the first time in three months, it was not very beautiful, so I made my declaration of heritage. One house, one car, two bank accounts: it was very fast! I'm not sure it's going that fast for a Carlos Ghosn or a Bernard Arnault! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Trust, which is at the heart of our debates, must be based on who we are, what we defend and also our history, to each other. For my part, I have no complex to discuss the subject of family jobs – none! Do you know why? Because I come from a communist family; My son is the son of a communist and, in our family, the professional bans in private companies in the Havre agglomeration existed – because we were communists!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u452	Exactly! There were blacklists!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u453	In the name of what would we establish professional prohibitions? Because an ex-Prime Minister has failed, why should we be subjected to collective punishment?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u454	That's right! And we're not communists!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u455	Because you have to give the people food? Shaken by what happened during the election campaign, it is normal for the campaign to end up being held accountable. But most of the people who sit here are certainly all like me: they have nothing to blame! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LR groups]] Most of the elected representatives questioned in the speech of the President of the Republic, the elected representatives of France, the municipal councillors, do not represent a cost to the Republic: it is the chance of the French Republic to have at its disposal all these elected representatives, all those hussards of the Republic at the service of the people! This is our chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u456	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u457	Today, we are being presented with a law to moralize public life by suggesting that elected officials would be the problem, that they should be reduced, their allowances revised, their mandate fees revised, etc. No! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LR groups]] We ask for this referral to committee for all the arguments presented admirably by Comrade Roussel but also, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to do the work for which we are paid. Let's make the law! We have to do the law! We have both proposed amendments in committee, rejected by the Government: it is not the Government that makes the law, it is the National Assembly! Let's make the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u458	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u459	The next speaker is Mrs Paula Forteza, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u460	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if the debate over the next few days is going to be rich, controversial and cleavage, we have some 900 amendments to deal with together: it will be a real parliamentary debate. Let us stand up for a few moments: let us not forget that the basis for consensus on the provisions proposed by this bill is even broader. In seeking to restore confidence, we do not seek in vain to strengthen our legitimacy, but to restore our capacity for collective action in the service of citizens. This has become urgent. This text comes at a key moment, at the beginning of a crucial stage of this democratic renewal which the French and French call for. If we look forward to the substantive debates that will inform us over the next few days – and we are prepared to devote all the necessary time to them, as we have already done in committee – we are not in favour of a referral to committee which, at this stage, would serve only to delay the discussions that we must have, all together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u461	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u462	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Other opportunities will come very quickly to broaden the legal and constitutional scope of our action for confidence in public life. Today we are only laying the first stage of a long-term path. The La République group will therefore vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u463	The next speaker is Mr Olivier Marleix, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u464	For our part, we will vote on this motion to refer it back to committee. You have made the choice, Madam Minister, to scramble the parliamentary debate completely. I would remind you that we have had about one day to table amendments for the consideration in committee of the text adopted by the Senate, and one and a half days to table amendments for this sitting: this is not a big deal about the democratic work of the National Assembly! The result is a very incomplete text: as Mr Roussel has said, he is only trying to weaken the elected representatives, while carefully preserving the interests of some. Some examples: you remove the parliamentary reserve, but you take care to defend and preserve the ministerial reserve,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u465	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u466	... so, Madam Minister, that they both appear on the same budget line of the Ministry of the Interior – Action 01 of Programme 122 – and that the authorising officer is the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u467	Do what I say, not what I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u468	The result will be very unfair, as majority parliamentarians continue to benefit from the ministerial reserve, while other parliamentarians will no longer be entitled to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u469	Yes! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u470	Double, double, double, double, double, double, double, double, double,
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u471	It's the republic of friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u472	You are demanding transparency for the operating costs of Members of Parliament and Senators – that is! But you and your majority are fiercely opposed to the same for the ministers: the ministers will be exempt from any obligation of transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u473	It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u474	You claim to prevent conflict of interest among parliamentarians – as if that were the most important risk! On the other hand, for senior officials who slip into the private sector, you have rejected all Senate amendments. For the first time, a text on moralization takes care not to touch senior officials – finance inspectors or State advisers, for example; I'm not targeting anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u475	Boyfriends!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u476	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] Finally, you put an end to family jobs: be, very well! But, surprisingly, you evade the status of the First Lady, who was a promise of the President of the Republic, if I am not mistaken. This status raises a problem of law: in our country, a private person spends public money on his or her actions. That would be worth a text! You have therefore, Madam Minister, chosen a text of appearance, only to satisfy a media requirement: we regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u477	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u478	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] Many of us are converging and calling for another debate, another text: that is why we support this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u479	On the motion for referral back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Bruno Joncour, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u480	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot justify a return to committee of the organic bill more than its outright rejection. As we have already pointed out, the organic bill is the corollary of the ordinary bill. In addition, the work done in the committee has been sufficiently serious, dense and constructive. We are all ready to discuss this text: then why postpone consideration of it until later? If we give in, if we differ, our fellow citizens will once again be disappointed by our work and by the lack of respect for our commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u481	What an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u482	[[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Is that not precisely what we want to avoid? [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] So let us prepare ourselves to meet the demands of a different political practice by starting the discussion on this text from now on: we have committed ourselves to it. We will therefore vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u483	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor for the group Les Constructives : républicaines, IDU et affiliés.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u484	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, as we were on the first motion to refer it to committee, we are in favour of it, as a matter of principle: we believe that this text has been studied in an imprecise and hasty manner in committee. We mustn't confuse speed with precipitation. Even if the objectives are laudable and we support them – we did not vote on the motions for rejection – we believe that the work has not been done as it should have been in committee. I also believe that the impact assessment was very light and I think that if we had gone to the end of this work, many amendments could have been adopted. We also regret that you have rejected virtually all of the Senate's proposals, which were constructive and which greatly enriched the text, on the pretext that its scope should be confined to elected officials. We missed conflicts of interest and incompatibilities for the senior public service. We regret it. Very sincerely, Madam Minister, on the parliamentary reserve, if the impact study had been more serious, you would have realized its usefulness, many examples of which bear witness. Finally, I would like to remind you that a decision of the 2013 Constitutional Council confirmed that this can indeed be a matter for parliamentarians as well. [[Applause on the benches of the LC and LR groups]] For all these reasons, we will support this referral motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u485	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u486	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u487	Madam Chair, Minister, we will support the motion that has just been tabled. This is not a motion for avoidance, Mr Fabien Roussel has explained the importance of this referral to committee. [["Oh yes!" on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, you have shunned her arguments, certainly with talent, but you have shunned them. You mentioned Europe, the overcoming of capitalism, etc. Mr Roussel pointed out a number of difficulties in this text. He spoke of the incompatibilities: would you, minister, remind you of candidate Macron's statements on incompatibilities? [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR, FI and LR groups]] This is what candidate Macron said: "When you are in charge of legislating, you cannot have a counselling activity or depend financially on a private interest. The bypasses are now too simple and lead to drifts. Also the incompatibility must be the general rule except for a few exceptions. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u488	Do what I say, not what I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u489	This text, Madam Minister, does not solve the problem of incompatibilities. To prohibit legislators any other activity is fully in line with what the French expect, and that is what we will be asking for when we examine the text, but we would have liked to have been able to work with you and the Government in committee to improve the provisions that we would have adopted together. On the parliamentary reserve, I am pleased to see Joël Giraud's return, both because he is a specialist in reserves, but also because he has made proposals that could allow us to outline avenues for reflection. [[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] For all these reasons – the parliamentary reservation, the incompatibilities, the place of the officials, which was mentioned by our colleague Marleix, the conditions for examining the text – we have every interest in giving each other time to review this text in committee. That is what the New Left Group will say in its vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u490	I put to the vote the motion to refer the organic bill to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u491	[[Several Members on various benches leave the Chamber]] The first speaker in the joint general debate is Mr Ugo Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u492	I'm waiting for those who want to leave. They're obviously not interested in what I'm going to say! There's still ten minutes before we go to dinner! Where are we at this hour? You have rejected the motions for prior rejection, while they have been put forward by brilliant speakers calling for a package of texts and constitutional reform that is at the end of the Government's apparent ambition. You have refused the motions to refer them back to committee, although they have been argued very well by the New Left Group and the GDR Group, pointing to difficulties in the processing of these texts. I hope that you will refuse to make these texts just a com'.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u493	It's gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u494	Things are done backwards, laws, ordinary and organic, before constitutional reform. And our amendments are opposed to an objection to constitutionality, although it would obviously have been necessary to proceed in the opposite direction. We are told that the examination in committee lasted seventeen hours. I know: I was there and it wasn't obvious. To tell you the ambiance, wanting to defend an amendment, I was wrong and I defended the following amendment! But it was two and a half in the morning! I do not know whether these are good conditions for working effectively to amend such an ambitious text. Initially, there was a question of "moralization" – that was, let's say, the term for the media – and then the original bill enshrined the expression "trust in public life." The Senate preferred the term regulation, before the Assembly resumed that of trust. The term moralization has thus disappeared and you have told us, Madam Minister, that it is not a matter of moralizing. I think the communicators have gone through this: the word has a somewhat negative connotation. It's moralizing, getting into people's heads, while trust is a great program! In the strict sense of the term, trust refers to the idea that you can trust someone or something. The verb "confess", of the Latin confide, of cum, "with" and fidere "rely", means in fact that one gives something precious to someone, relying on him and thus abandoning himself to his benevolence and good faith. A government that would like to take unpopular measures today must be "clean of itself" in order to avoid being mistrusted by the people as a result of over-visible corruption and to be able to continue its misdemeanours without being worried. It doesn't matter if there are corrupters since they are private persons: this is not the purpose of the text. We are told: "Trust," which would be a form of submission to a benevolent authority, where we would need virtue, that is to say to frame the concrete acts of individuals and collectives who are the custodians of authority. As you said, Madam Minister, trust is not decreed. And for reason: trust is rather a consequence of virtue than a prerequisite. If you want confidence, then you have to reintroduce republican virtue, that is to say to regulate behavior so that the first question is what is good for all, even to the detriment of one's own interests. If the representatives of the people and their Government strive to be virtuous and empower the people, then the whole people will be able to discern what the general interest is, which is basically our reason for action. We're talking about "public life" and not "political life," you'll have noticed. It's a great ambition. We must be careful not to disappoint because the shock will be all the more strong as the expectation is great in the opinion, it has been pointed out several times. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You mock us when we point our finger at the king money, as if it were the act of some farfelus energists waving in their hemicycle corner. But isn't it you who propose a democratic bank or a credit mediator? If money isn't king, what's the problem? Why this proposal? Its existence proves that there is a difficulty. It is clear that the money is likely to prevent someone from being a candidate. That's the real problem. Your intuition is good and we must continue this effort. You objected to the rejection motions that were based on the desire to have a real legislative bloc on the subject. You also refused to refer the texts back to committee. I therefore consider the public examination to be a catch-up session. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] Catch-up session first regarding the current status of the text. Why did you delete the provisions introduced by the Senate, which were, if not all, at least generally excellent? About Bercy's lock, you have heard the previous interventions: you are all expected at the turn, not only here but outside. [["Nothing! » on the benches of the LR group]] The same applies to slippers: we need to address concrete problems. We're not here to tarry. Concrete cases have been cited on several occasions, such as that of Bruno Bézard, former Director of the Treasury: how will the text prevent such cases from happening again?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u495	Let's get out of here, pals!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u496	The World tells us that the two men – Mr. Bézard and the Chinese capitalist – met in 2011 in Beijing, around a plate of ravioli, while Mr. Bézard was an advisor on economic affairs in China. The good deal! That's wonderful! [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] The parliamentary reservation versus the ministerial reservation: all things being equal, it would be logical to apply the same rule to both. The use of this money will have to be discussed. Will it serve to reduce the public deficit when it is used most of the time to finance useful projects? Why did you abolish the provisions strengthening the prerogatives of the High Authority for the transparency of public life, when the President of that institution himself called for more resources? Why did you remove the obligation to publish the identity of private lenders? With regard to the cumulation of activities, do we want to provide a better framework for this? I don't think so. Catch-up session also to improve the text. When we talk about "public" life and not "political" life, it is that the aim is wide, otherwise it is false advertising.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u497	That's kind of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u498	But let's not sue for intent. Do we have to attack the corrupters? We have some proposals in our besace. In this way, we propose to prohibit the exercise of mandates on behalf of the State by persons who have run or represented public limited companies using tax havens: we can all agree that this is a good amendment. We also propose – you may not agree – to create a virtuous circle by limiting the range of wages from one to twenty. This does not mean that the highest wage will be capped, but that the highest wage will only be increased if the lowest wage is also increased. We will propose that you limit the cumulation of mandates on boards of directors, including CAC 40 companies – you know, all those people who sit on several boards of directors and who are blockage. This is an oligarchic phenomenon that we could easily limit by law. I am not going back to the universal tax, that was explained earlier. We must also ensure pluralism and combat the concentration of media ownership – we know the role they play in public life. We propose the revocative referendum, since we must give power to the people: this is a power we could give them, by suspending above our heads a sword of Damocles – albeit friendly and benevolent – that would prevent them from transvesting their political commitments and voting the opposite of what was defended before being elected. This is a whole series of measures which would improve this text and which we will propose to you, together with a few others, in this catch-up session. I would like to draw your attention to both the abstention in the general elections and the decline in the popularity rating of the President and the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u499	She's starting, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u500	... in the polls. I know that many of you in your ranks are sensitive to our arguments, I know, I found it in committee, so trust you, because trust begins first with self-confidence!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u501	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u502	I know you can vote with us!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u503	[[Smile]] Listen to your heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u504	So let's not give the corrupters any chance, first, and then the corrupters! To forget the former is to wage an endless battle against the latter! When we say that you are doing a com'hit first, deny us! Prove to us that we would be right to trust you! All we ask is this!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u505	He's right! We need proof!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u506	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I have a message for our assembly from Louis-Antoine de Saint-Just: "Let us dare! This word contains the whole policy of this hour. »
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u507	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-07-24-E1017.u508	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the Bill and the Organic Bill for Trust in Public Life. The meeting is adjourned.
