ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the second part of the finance bill for 2018 (No.235, 273).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u2	We are dealing with the examination of the appropriations relating to the cohesion of the territories (No 273, Annexes 8 and 9 ; No 264 rectified, Volumes IV and V; No 266 corrected, Volume IX). The Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the special rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Sustainable Development, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, as you know, is a cross-cutting ministry, which intersects several traditional ministries: housing, land-use planning and city policy. There is a real logic to this grouping, which corresponds to our government's stated priority of fighting territorial divides. These range from the priority areas of city policy to a number of rural areas, in which the sense of abandonment is increasingly prevalent. The budget for the Cohesion of the Territories mission amounts to EUR 16.5 billion in the draft finance law, to which should be added the different tax expenditure of the State for the benefit of the housing actors, i.e. almost EUR 18 billion in total, including EUR 1.6 billion for emergency accommodation, EUR 15.3 billion for housing, EUR 470 million for spatial planning and EUR 448 million for city policy. What has guided our housing policy and projects is the fact that, although the State spends nearly 2 points of GDP on housing policy each year, i.e. an investment of almost 41 billion euros, 4 million of our citizens remain poorly housed. That is why we wanted to reflect on the effectiveness of our policy on personalized housing assistance – APL – and building support. In 2017, 6.5 million families receive APLs, for a total cost of 18.5 billion euros, of which more than 15 billion are the subject of a state budget balance grant to the National Housing Fund – FNAL. This draft finance law therefore provides for a reform of housing aid, which will lead to the reduction of the state's expenditure by €1.7 billion in 2018. This led to a debate, in particular on article 52 of the finance bill, to which social donors were involved. I would like to point out that, from the outset, we have maintained a constant dialogue with social donors with Julien Denormandie, and that we will continue to do so until the end. As proof of this desire to bring the dialogue to a successful conclusion, we have today tabled an amendment allowing for the gradual implementation, over three years, of the reform relating to the social park. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs of your House for their assistance in the dialogue we have conducted with the social donors. The dialogue, as I said, has never been interrupted and must allow the necessary time for the reorganization of this sector, which is indispensable – a fact that is widely recognised today. The consultation will continue with the national representation in the coming weeks. In order to support the social donors in carrying out this effort, the Government has proposed a package of support measures: more than €6 billion of subsidized loans are offered to them, and the rate of Book A will be maintained over time in order to stabilize the burden on them. I would also like to point out that the Government is proposing a change in the financing of aid to stone. An amendment tabled before your assembly aims to create a new contribution to the Social Housing Guarantee Fund – CGLLS – based on HLM sales, the product of which will abound the National Stone Aid Fund – FNAP. This should ensure balanced financing of this fund over the long term, and strengthen the leverage effect of sales, as I would point out that a sale of HLM housing can make it possible to self-finance two to three new constructions. Importantly, the "Cohesion of the Territories" mission reinforces the State's support for the action of the National Habitat Agency – ANAH – for the improvement of the private park, notably through the "Having Better" programme, which will provide €1.2 billion on the quinquennium to finance the renovation of more than 75,000 thermal coves per year in the private park. The tax arrangements that mature at the end of 2017 will be extended for four years, while being oriented towards the sectors that need it most – tense areas for the Pinel and the zero-rate loan – PTZ – in the new, less tense areas for the PTZ in the old. As the President of the Republic announced three weeks ago, we propose that the PTZ be maintained for two years in zone B2 and C in the nine. With regard to housing and access to housing for homeless or poorly housed people, the "Housing first" strategy, which we presented, together with the President of the Republic in Toulouse, is undertaking a real structural reform of the housing offer in order to allow a sustainable reduction in the number of homeless people in France. The implementation of this strategy requires initially investments, with the gradual rise of suitable housing – rental intermediation, family pensions – and the maintenance of a stock of quality accommodation places. We have therefore proposed an increase of 13 per cent in this budget. As far as spatial planning policy is concerned, we propose a budget for accessibility of services in rural areas and in the neighbourhoods of the city's policy: combating medical desertification, digital coverage of the territory and development of contractual policies. These are the main features of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u4	You don't believe it yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u5	I believe in it all the more because I know these territories, Mr. Member of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] We will of course implement these measures in consultation with the national representation, with which dialogue is always open.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u8	Mr François Jolivet, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u9	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, draftsmen for opinions, to take up social housing is to grasp more than a century of our country's history. The exercise is therefore by definition difficult, complex and not without consequences. Roger Quillot said that it was up to the state to offer people fine housing and that this was his contribution to the work of freeing individuals from the chains of their condition. Social housing is, in fact, a means, among others, of emancipation and the exercise of freedom. The only recipients of public policies in this area are modest tenants and modest applicants for housing; I'm thinking about them right now. The reform that will be launched is done for them and only for them. Social housing belongs to the nation. The bodies known as "HLM" are by delegation the depositaries, since they are accredited by the State to exercise their powers. The legitimacy of the State to act in this area is therefore not questionable. I share the Government's expressed commitment to improving the efficiency of expenditure on housing policy. Indeed, every year, our country spends almost €20 billion in direct aid and renounces €20 billion in tax revenue. It is also necessary to count on the financial commitment of the local and regional authorities, and sometimes the European Union, to the manufacturers' bodies. While housing production is on the rise – something to be welcomed – it does not currently meet the demand for housing in the so-called tense territories. Conversely, where housing markets are declining, there are significant requalification needs, but the means of local operators are insufficient to meet the challenges. As for the level of rents in France, it is one of the highest in Europe, whereas we are the country that spends the most on housing. The draft finance bill announced a structural reform aimed at profoundly transforming the social housing sector in order to make it even more useful to the territories and their inhabitants. The latest major reforms in this area are old, dating back to 1946 and 1978. This sector has now reached a stage of maturity sufficient to justify its transformation. It must first draw the consequences, in its own organization, of the territorial inequalities which it rightly denounces. It must also find the means within it to act for the general interest. The objective is twofold: to complement housing supply and to strengthen the attractiveness of medium-sized cities. Reform must also put an end to the continuing widening territorial divide. The housing law announced must reinvent the expectations of a land-use policy. Indeed, this is a matter of concern: while some territories are unable to build housing, or the public facilities that must accompany them, others, on the contrary, are demolishing their homes and closing their public facilities. It's a gabegie of public money. The model of social housing to be invented must be able to "self-port" and rediscover the virtues of aid to stone. The future housing bill will take ownership of the consequences of this reform by enabling social housing organizations to make better use of their assets. The finance bill that the Government is presenting to us includes a reduction in housing spending of €1.7 billion – I refer you to my very detailed report on this subject. I would like to highlight three key points: firstly, the 12.2 per cent increase in the budget for emergency accommodation, which should allow for a decent reception for migrant populations – for the first time, the State takes ownership of the constraints of such a reception policy; the withdrawal of the State from the financing of the National Stone Aid Fund, offset by the use of a grant fund; Finally, the reduction of solidarity rent, which helps to reduce housing aid by EUR 1.5 billion. The electroshock generated by article 52, and in particular the reform of personalized housing subsidies, is the signal of an invitation from the Government to negotiate for the HLM family. It seems necessary and wise for your Special Rapporteur to imagine a longer time for the establishment of this mechanism. The rise of the reform over three years could be a working and negotiating hypothesis. I hope that Parliament will vote for the Government's amendment, which goes in this direction. This deadline will enable the Government's accompanying measures to produce their full effect. In the vote on the first part of the finance bill, I tabled appeal amendments, to which you have been sensitive, on the need to share the financial effort between transactions through operating accounts and balance sheet accounts. I personally support the increase of VAT from 5.5% to 10% for investment operations and plan purchases, known as sales in the future state of completion – VEFA – of the HLM organizations. I know that you are open to this work hypothesis and that the Social Housing Union – USH – is also open to this. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Minister, Secretary of State, I would also like to draw your attention to the need to reopen the debate on the accession LPA, which is a very important instrument of social promotion for those who wish to become owners. Social accession, intermediate housing and the Pinel scheme are, in my view, essential tools for financing urban restructuring operations. I know that negotiations with the USH are continuing and I have no doubt that it will succeed. You have my trust. Thank you, Minister, Secretary of State, for your listening skills and the advice given to an elected Member of Parliament. Nor will I forget the Prime Minister's listening and the support of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u10	Mr Mohamed Laqhila, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u11	Madam President, Mr Special Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the appropriations we are considering today have a common objective: to reduce the territorial divide. Commitment authorities decrease when payment appropriations increase slightly. This is due to transfers of certain schemes, such as rural contracts, the planned extinction of other tools such as the State-Métropoles Pact and a change in the funding schedule of the New National Urban Renewal Programme – NPNRU. On the latter point, the decrease in appropriations is the result of the late signing of the agreements. We hope that the billion euros, confirmed several times by the state, will give a boost to the implementation of the projects. In order to formalise this presidential commitment, the committee adopted an amendment which I had tabled to increase the overall budget of the NPNRU to EUR 10 billion. We hope that this amendment will also be adopted in open session. Last July, the Government cancelled some unconsumed credits on all three programmes. You have certainly heard it in your ridings, as many project promoters have found themselves in difficulty. That is why I tabled a second amendment. It aims to open up some of the appropriations cancelled in 2017, in order to enable the state to honour its commitments to the most fragile territories. The committee did not accept it, but I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will adopt it in public. Beyond the figures, this mission is not politically readable. With so many devices, more or less effective, more or less derogatory, driven and financed by too many actors, it is difficult for us to give a coherent and long-term view of land use planning. Appropriations should be sanctuated in each ministry to ensure that the city's policy does not replace the action of the competent administrations and that they do not become responsible. Like most of the people interviewed, I regret the absence of a national project, piloted at interministerial level and involving all the administrations. However, it would be a strong symbol sent by the State to our fellow citizens, which would recreate the willful spirit of the Borloo plan. The urgency, Mr Minister and colleagues, is here! Despite the success of some urban renewal operations, the indicators are red, and the memory of the riots of 2005 haunts the actors on the ground. In rural areas and in some medium-sized cities, the sense of abandonment is real, and the digital divide increases the lack of jobs, transport, public services and health services. There is no question for me, Minister and colleagues, of blackening the picture.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u12	We're reassured!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u13	My wish is quite different: I would like us all to give hope to our fellow citizens together. How? By avoiding, minister, watering where the grass is already very green. It is time, Minister, to put an end to the sprinkle! Priority geography needs to be tightened, and an action plan with enhanced resources must be launched immediately for the fifty most difficult neighbourhoods. As far as rural areas are concerned, the communities interviewed expressed the wish to be more accompanied in engineering. The President of the Republic announced the establishment of a territorial cohesion agency. In my view, a service with national jurisdiction would be largely sufficient to meet this need. So, rather than superimposing structures, and for reasons of economy, the Office of the Commissioner-General for Territorial Equality – the CGET – could see its resources strengthened and its powers extended to carry out the territorial cohesion missions. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, in conclusion, I would like to return to the very low level of public funding, despite growing structural needs. In my report, I propose to further simplify the administrative mill-sheet to provide EUR 15-25 billion in investment capacity. In the Finance Committee, the Government has confirmed to us that it will not commit a territorial big bang. Minister, without new means, how will the state ensure the maintenance of aging equipment and the financing of the new developments that our country so much needs?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u14	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u15	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Special Rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, you have all heard the figure of EUR 40 billion, which corresponds to the annual cost of housing policy in France. This €40 billion is spent annually to reduce the share of housing expenditure in the household budget. In the private park, however, the net household effort rate has continued to rise since the early 2000s, because prices, both for sale and for rent, are growing faster than their income. The same increase in the rate of effort affects the tenants of the social park. As the Court of Auditors has demonstrated in a report of February 2017, social housing no longer allows the solvabilisation of the poorest households. The way rents are calculated means that they are not adapted to household resources. In addition, social housing suffers from a number of deficiencies and fails to meet demand, which leads to far too long waiting periods. Rotation in the social park is low. Moreover, the poorest households face difficulties in accessing housing for them; Only half of the households living below the poverty line are housed in the social park. In response, the Government presented a strategy to rethink the policy of housing subsidies in the social park and to reduce rents in a sustainable manner. As has been observed in recent years, the constant increase in public spending is not a solution, especially since it can contribute to aggravating the rise in prices and rents. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Section 52 of the Finance Bill goes beyond mere budgetary measures. It has a long-term vision for the social housing model in France, and it pursues a dual objective of social justice and economic efficiency. It proposes a parallel reduction of rents and APLs for the most modest households in the social park. It is a real measure of social justice proposed by Article 52,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u16	You must dare say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u17	We can't let that say!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u18	... which aims to bring about a dynamic of lower rents in the social park. And we ask the social donors to participate. This text does not punish social donors who best fulfil their social mission, as has often been heard, as it accompanies the reduction of solidarity rent by an important equalization scheme so that the most fragile organizations do not experience a direct impact. I am also proposing an amendment aimed at clarifying the objectives of this equalization, so that it will primarily benefit HLM organizations with a high proportion of modest tenants. In addition, the Government is committed to ensuring that the investment capacities of social donors are not eroded so that they can continue to build. Compensation measures are planned, the details of which are being negotiated with the HLM movement. As such, I am very much in favour of the development of the sale of social housing, which will be allowed in particular by the creation of a new dedicated investment structure. You have also heard it many times, the sale of a dwelling makes it possible to build at least two. It is therefore not intended to undermine the heritage of donors, but rather to strengthen it and promote social diversity in certain neighbourhoods. The Government has also proposed to social donors a series of measures aimed at improving their financing conditions with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, including a new envelope of €2 billion of enhanced high-balance-sheet loans. Together with the maintenance of the aid to the stone, these new resources will enable the social donors to reach the production target of an additional 40,000 very social housing units per year, set by the Government in its housing strategy. In my report and in an expanded commission, I drew the Government's attention to the possible time lags between the immediate reduction of rents and the longer-term effects of compensation. In this regard, I have proposed a gradual application of the lower rents and LPAs, in order to avoid any slowdown in the construction of social housing, and I am pleased that the Government has tabled an amendment to this effect. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] In conclusion, I believe that with this article 52, the Government is embarking on a courageous policy. This text is a first step in a policy that must lead to a genuine reform of the LPA system and a reorganisation of the social housing sector. It will be complemented by a housing bill, which will give concrete expression to the promise of a supply shock, long awaited by the housing actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u19	Mrs Annaig Le Meur, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u20	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Special Rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, the city's policy is celebrating its 40th anniversary, but the problems of neighbourhoods have not disappeared. Unemployment and poverty rates are two and a half times higher than the national average. This situation undermines the cohesion of the Republic and reflects inequality in the opportunities offered to each of its members. That is why I welcome the fact that the appropriations for programme 147 "City Policy" are maintained at a high level in 2018 and that the Government has committed itself to sanctuarizing them during the quinquennium. The aim of this desire to preserve public policies is to reduce social and territorial inequalities. In addition to the specific appropriations of the city's policy, €4.2 billion comes from the appropriations of the common law policies of the various ministries. Developments in the policy of other ministries can therefore have a significant impact on city policy. As such, concerns had arisen about the consequences of the gradual decline in aided contracts in the neighbourhoods of the city's policy – QPV. The Government responded by announcing that the 200000 assisted contracts planned for 2018 would be given priority in the QPVs. I welcome this commitment. In my report, I wanted to address three points in particular: urban renewal and the question of degraded old centres; employment and entrepreneurship in neighbourhoods; Finally, health and social prevention. With regard to urban renewal, all stakeholders interviewed welcomed the Government's commitment to doubling the resources of the NPNRU, implemented by the National Agency for Urban Renewal, ANRU. This increase in resources is necessary if this new programme is to transform these neighbourhoods in depth, by acting on both housing, transport, public facilities and economic activity. In order to provide readability and security for local actors, the Committee on Economic Affairs has adopted an amendment to include this increase in the law. Moreover, the new priority geography of the city's policy has highlighted the emergence of new concentrations of poverty in a new type of neighbourhood, that of degraded old centres. Ninety-eight of these neighbourhoods are in decline, as the housing stock is no longer suited to the expectations of the middle classes, and only very modest people remain in an increasingly degraded habitat. Although some of them have been retained under the NPNRU, the financial resources allocated to them are now largely inadequate. However, if nothing is done, today's degraded old quarters will be the QPV of tomorrow. I am therefore pleased that the Government has announced the launch of a new specific programme for the rehabilitation and upgrading of housing in city centres in medium-sized cities. For this programme to succeed, however, it must not be limited to the issue of housing, but must also address economic and social problems. As such, I am in favour of the National Public Establishment for the Development and Restructuring of Commercial and Craft Spaces – EPARECA – which has proved its worth in terms of the commercial revitalization of the ANRU neighbourhoods, seeing its tasks extended to these issues. With regard to the fight against unemployment, the various figures show that the inhabitants of the QPV face particular obstacles in their access to employment, which are not necessarily linked to their level of qualification but are part of their environment, such as lack of relational networks or difficulty in moving. I therefore believe that it is more than ever necessary that specific measures of positive discrimination based on territorial origin be put in place and that the President of the Republic's promise on free jobs be kept as quickly as possible. All the actors I have heard are certain that the mechanism proposed by the President of the Republic will be much more effective than the one experienced in 2013. The Committee on Economic Affairs therefore proposes an amendment so that an experiment on free jobs can be launched in 2018 in certain territories. I am also convinced that entrepreneurship can be another lever for creating jobs in QPVs. In this area, the work undertaken by Agence France Entrepreneur – AFE – is in the right direction. However, an increased effort is needed to support the development of businesses already set up, so that their life span exceeds two or three years. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to another form of activity in PQs, that of the health professions. The lack of health professionals, especially specialist doctors, is a matter of concern in these neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u21	It's true everywhere in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u22	There are three times fewer psychiatrists, gynaecologists and paediatricians than in other neighbourhoods of the same agglomerations, while chronic diseases are more frequent. However, city policy funding for health and access to health care accounts for only a very small proportion of program 147 funding. I believe that a new impetus must therefore be given to health policy in the PQs, by increasing the provision of care and by multiplying preventive measures, particularly in the area of mental health and parenting training. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] As such, I am pleased that the Minister and the Secretary of State announced in an expanded committee that a new interdepartmental agreement with the Ministry of Health would be concluded before the end of the year. I hope that the largest number of actors will be involved in its development so that it can meet the challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u23	Mrs Sandra Marsaud, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u24	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen special rapporteurs and draftspersons for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, the Cohesion of the Territories mission is fundamental to ensure balanced and harmonious development, while the feeling of a widening of the territorial divide still prevails. Spatial planning, this search for balance, fairness in terms of accessibility, access to services to the public and economic development is not an exact science but a noble cause, a noble cause that we all have to grasp, as the diversity of French geography offers opportunities to develop projects, especially in rural areas, in agriculture – the news proves it – and renewable energies. The 112 and 162 programmes may be small budget envelopes, but great ambitions are associated with them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u25	I applaud you! It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u26	... in particular, to put the power of impulse and coordination of public policies at the heart of our rural areas, in order to bring solutions to everyday difficulties and a longer-term vision. Programme 112, through the means of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Equality of Territories, implements a policy of planning, development and equality of territories which is characterized by a strong inter-ministerial dimension. The 162 programme consists of five evolving regional or interregional actions. These actions are characterised by a major territorial issue and the need for rapid action and coordination between a plurality of actors. These programmes should enable the development of digital technology, facilitate access to care, strengthen the attractiveness of the territories and, finally, concentrate State interventions on complex issues relating to public health, the environment and planning. To this end, the State intends to become a strategist again, while also being a partner of local and regional authorities. The right to differentiation in this 2018 budget is an innovation of importance for the territories, which are not all similar: today, an experiment, once completed, can only be abandoned or generalized. We should be able to pursue a differentiated policy in the future, which takes account of the specificities: there is indeed not rurality, but ruralities.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u27	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u28	In my speech, I would like to highlight the main sources of satisfaction and suggest some avenues for improvement. First of all, I particularly welcome the strong political will to combat digital divides. Full broadband coverage of the territory must be effective as of 2020, in accordance with the announcements of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u29	Very high speed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u30	First there is the 2020 horizon, then the very high-speed target. The construction of infrastructure and the deployment of services and uses are the two pillars of the response to this digital equality issue. In order to achieve this, the Government has, inter alia, reaffirmed its support for public initiative networks, the FIRs, which the major investment plan could contribute to financing. For mobile telephony, great progress is also needed, due to the persistence of white and grey areas. The Government therefore stressed the need for massive investments in new equipment throughout the country in order to achieve the standard of quality expected by 2020. With regard to fixed telephony, the shortcomings due to a lack of maintenance of the network are intolerable in 2017. The Government has demanded concrete and rapid solutions from operators, which I appreciate, especially in rural areas, of course. Moreover, why not put in place an effective warning system leading to an obligation to work? I also underline the progress made in the fight against medical deserts. Multidisciplinary health homes – MSP – are one of the answers to this situation, but sometimes they are only relatively successful. Medical deserts remain a worrying reality. Nevertheless, these homes contribute to better access to care in under-density areas. The goal of the government plan is to double the number of PSMs during the quinquennium. Other promising measures include the establishment of an evaluation committee to monitor each territorial action with a battery of performance indicators. I would also like to highlight the creation, in 2018, of a national agency for the cohesion of the territories, dedicated to the rural world. The aim will be to facilitate access to new means of engineering, administrative simplification and funding for communities outside the metropolitan area or outside the metropolitan area that cannot carry out their projects. I stress that the new agency will have to adapt to the singularities of each territory. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I welcome the policy of dynamic impetus carried out through this budget for rural areas. Let us not too often oppose the urban world and the rural world; Instead, encourage genuine complementarity between territories that must necessarily work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u31	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u32	Madam President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Special Rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, the cohesion of the territories is more than just a budget line: it is a policy on the very basis of our living together. In a context of controlling public spending, you are proposing, Minister, Secretary of State, a housing budget downwards in order to refocus our action and make it more effective. Personal housing assistance programmes and some housing construction and renovation grants will thus be down 12% in 2018. In the face of a sharp rise in real estate prices, which are growing faster than household income, we are convinced that rising public spending is not a solution. The dialogue that the Government has undertaken for several weeks with housing stakeholders in France is necessary, and your willingness to reform this sector is supported by the MODEM group. Personalized housing grants this year celebrated their fortieth anniversary. The objective that Raymond Barre had given them was noble: it was to facilitate everyone's access to housing and thereby promote social cohesion. Forty years later, our goal remains the same, but the world has changed. And rather than benefiting the tenants, the APLs have led to an increase in rents to the owners.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u33	Not everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u34	Private!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u35	This is how we spend EUR 18 billion, including EUR 600 million in management costs, on a policy that has effects that are contrary to what we have set for it. Article 52, which we are going to discuss, has two objectives: to reduce the cost of personal housing assistance and to reduce rents for the most modest tenants. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement shares this will and will support the Government's amendment to accompany the effort requested of the social donors. However, we will be vigilant about the removal of the APL accession mechanism. We consider that this scheme is likely to favour the residential path in social housing, that it allows modest households to gain access to property, and that a sudden halt to this measure on 1 January 2018 would wipe out many of the projects that many of these households are organizing. That is why we have tabled amendments that go back to the sudden exit of this system. Our housing policy, however, is not limited to Article 52. It is part of an ambitious strategy to build more, better and cheaper, to meet the needs of everyone, especially the most fragile, and to improve the living environment of the French. This strategy will be reflected in a future housing bill, which we hope will promote mobility in housing by facilitating construction, freeing up land, and relaxing many existing standards that are too burdensome and cost-effective. Our group is also pleased that the 177 programme, dedicated to housing and the route to housing for vulnerable people, is increasing its appropriations by 12% in 2018, reaching EUR 1.9 billion. Similarly, we welcome the fact that the committee endorsed the proposal of our colleague Mohamed Laqhila to increase the funding of the new national urban renewal programme from 6 to 10 billion euros, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic. In the same spirit of social justice, we welcome the Government's decision to extend the Pinel scheme for four years, as we are convinced that the revival of the construction of new housing, which has been under way since 2014, still requires tax support in order to be sustainable. We will table amendments to ensure that in B2 areas, which are areas with a simple imbalance between supply and demand for housing, housing continues to be eligible for this scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u37	The aim of this extension is to prevent a sudden halt in the supply of attractive rental housing in these areas from increasing the rental pressure in the tense areas, in contrast to the objective sought. In line with this logic, the extension of the zero-rate loan for four years will also help to maintain a policy of support for the accession of modest households. In order to continue to attract buyers to medium-sized towns and town centres, we will also propose to keep the B2 areas within the scope of the zero-rate loan for the acquisition of new housing. We know that you are sensitive to these matters, Minister, and we hope for some inflections in this regard. In this context, the results of a citizen consultation on the Government's housing strategy were given to you last week. All the proposals of our fellow citizens are precious; Some of them need to be discussed and analysed, in particular those relating to dematerialisation, which are in line with a greater simplification of our arrangements. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome this consultative approach, which I hope will be institutionalized in the future. Finally, I would like to call for the ambitious reforms that we are undertaking today to be rigorously evaluated when the time comes. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and REM groups]] In this spirit of responsibility, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u38	[[At 22:10, Mr. Sacha Houlié replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u39	The next speaker is Mr Guy Bricout, for the group Les Constructives: Republicans, IDU, Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u40	[[Smile]] All right! Vif applause on the benches of the group Les Constructifs!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u41	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Special Rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen for opinions, because it brings together housing policy, city policy and territorial cohesion, this mission is in many respects very sensitive and carries with it crucial political choices; Mr. Minister, you pointed out that. First of all, we welcome the sincerity of the budget for emergency accommodation. Secondly, with regard to the cohesion of the territories, we must meet a very important challenge: that of not forgetting any territory and not opposing metropolises and rural areas or less dense in the decisions of the next few years.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u43	We heard the mayors' concern about city politics. It is true that budgetary appropriations have been low for many years. In addition, city politics is a whole; I saw him as mayor. This area needs to be specifically addressed and redefined, as it brings together issues of security, employment and urban planning. As on many other issues, the state must set a clear course. It must mobilise all the actors involved. We welcome your willingness to increase the envelope of the new national urban renewal programme to EUR 10 billion. However, as has been pointed out in the enlarged committee, I fear that the involvement of the USH will be more complicated than anticipated in the current context. I come to our main concern, and several speakers have mentioned it before me: Article 52 on the reduction of LPA in the social housing sector. I think there's a method problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u44	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u45	You are telling us that consultation is permanent with the social donors, but at the same time they are calling for a moratorium, and we have voted in committee on an article that you yourself say can evolve. I would like to recall that the social donors believe that the counterparties proposed by the Government today are not operating because they do not sufficiently compensate for the losses that this article will generate. Minister, Secretary of State, we are warning you: we do not deny that there are dormant cash flows in some HLM offices; We do not deny that a few groupings are necessary, and the agencies are prepared to do so. We simply want a policy differentiated according to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u47	I told you a few weeks ago in the Chamber: the rates of tenants benefiting from the LPA vary greatly according to the departments, which will place the HLM offices in a situation of inequality in the face of future investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u48	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u49	In my department, for example, the North, some social donors have 65 per cent of LPA beneficiaries. This rate is much lower than in the Île-de-France region. We will be defending a number of amendments this evening to take account of these differences. We look forward to the Government's amendment, which should spread the rent reduction over time. This amendment should not simply push back the problem. The State must take the necessary time to make clear what it expects from social donors, how they can contribute to a better housing policy. Why don't we put together housing foundations, as I have already suggested, to set a course for the next few years? Why not increase VAT on the construction of social housing instead of reducing the amount of the LPA? As the subject is sensitive, you have put in place a consultation. However, if your housing policy had first consisted of a reform of the conditions for allocating LPA beyond just taking into account the current year's income, it would have become clearer. The housing bill that will be introduced in 2018 will give rise to major discussions and it is important that you specify your choices. In particular, we will defend the territorialization of the PTZ. According to his announcements, the President of the Republic has understood that his refocusing on the tense areas alone is not a good measure, nor is the hasty termination of the energy transition tax credit – ISCED.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u51	Finally, to the extent that we defend access to property, the removal of the accession LPA provided for in Article 52 of the text does not seem to us to be a good signal. If the accession LPA and the PTZ are removed in zones B2 and C – I am talking about it with knowledge – they are all households that will no longer be able to access the property through this. [[Applause on the benches of the LC group]] Previous governments have often pursued the goal of a France of owners; It's time to get the means to do it. As you will have understood, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the members of the Constructive Group will be very attentive to the examination of Article 52, which is for us the black spot of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u52	Mr François Pupponi, for the New Left Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u53	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Special Rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, over the past ten years, Bercy's officials have been calling for the "hunting of the dodu" to be declared open. Many ministers gave it up before you, minister, considering that the problem is a little more complex than it looks and that we have to think twice about it. For your part, you agreed in June to declare this hunt open, but you realize over time that it is difficult to kill the dodu, because it is a formidable animal. We've found out as much as killing the dodu is killing an entire ecosystem. Of course, savings are realized by spending less to help the French pay their rent, but there is a risk of killing a system that all works. Allow me to pay tribute to our colleague Sylvia Pinel, Minister of Housing in the previous legislature. In terms of construction, 2017 will be an exceptional year. The offer shock you're dreaming of, we've done it! With more than 400,000 housing units built in 2017, including 130,000 social housing units, the machine is back! Of course, the world of social housing must be reformed. Of course, savings must be made on the LPA; We ourselves had proposed and initiated its reform. However, we must not break the current boom in supply. As many of us have said, minister, despite your willingness, the method is not good. You now agree to carry out this reform in three years, as proposed by an amendment by the Government that we will consider shortly. This may be due to a simple reason: the measures planned for 2018 could not work on 1 January. We discussed this with our colleague special rapporteur, François Jolivet: you could not reduce rents and APLs at the same time on 1 January. It would have taken the lessors three, four or even six months to reduce the rent, which put the tenants at risk of having their APL reduced as early as 1 January but not having their rent reduced until six months later. I assume that such a situation was politically unacceptable. So you have shifted the entry into force of the reform, which is a good decision. You will thus allow time for reflection, dialogue and discussion before actually embarking on this great reform. As part of its alternative budget, the New Left Group has proposed solutions that we are ready to discuss with you. If we need both revenue, savings and better living conditions for the French, we are ready to participate in this debate, which is of national interest. Housing must continue to be built in France, rents must be reduced and public finances must also be better. We all agree on the objective. For our part, we propose a methodology and a dialogue. I will refer to a second subject. If you want to make French owners, as you say, then you should not simultaneously remove the accession APL and reduce the scope of the PTZ.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u55	Moreover, if French people leave social housing to become owners, the result will be savings in LPA, since the average amount of LPA accession amounts to 150 euros and that of LPA to 230 euros. As a result, someone who leaves social housing causes the state to save money.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u56	Of course! It's got to turn!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u57	It is therefore necessary to promote social ownership, free up social housing and ensure a turnover. On this point, we all agree and a number of amendments seek to reverse the abolition of the accession LPA, which is a very good thing. I'm going to the politics of the city. It is based on four pillars, all of which must be set up identically. You maintain the credits of the city's policy, minister, which is a very good thing. As far as urban renewal is concerned, you are announcing the allocation of an additional EUR 5 billion to the ANRU, which is also a very good thing, but for the time being, let me point out that the account is not there! The State announces an appropriation of EUR 1 billion, but our colleague special rapporteur, Mohamed Laqhila, has admitted in the enlarged committee that it will only amount to EUR 200 million for the next five years. It will therefore be missing 800 million euros that will have to be brought between 2022 and 2024, the deadline of the NPNRU launched in 2014. As for the remaining EUR 4 billion, Action Logement has not yet signed and you can imagine, Minister, that the ongoing debates do not encourage social donors to pay EUR 2 billion. As a result, the €5 billion announced is still not there. I hope that the debate will shed some light on this point. In addition, the city's policy is also based on the desire to empower the local authorities that administer the territories and neighbourhoods concerned. In this case, Minister, Secretary of State, I do not understand why you chose to end horizontal equalization. As long as the major reform of the State's endowments is not completed, it, together with vertical equalization, gives municipalities the means to implement effective public policies in these neighbourhoods. However, it ceases, since the national fund for equalisation of intercommunal and communal resources – FPIC – and the solidarity fund of the communes of the Île-de-France region – FSRIF – will not evolve in 2018 while they have progressed for many years. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, GDR and several benches of the LR and LC groups]] As for vertical equalisation, it also gradually ceased, halving from the previous trend. Of course, the allocations are not falling, which we welcome. This is an important point. However, equalization is essential for these territories if you want local authorities to accompany urban renewal, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u58	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u59	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u60	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about the cohesion of the territories while reducing the appropriations allocated to this mission by more than EUR 3 billion in two years, Minister, you are continuing on the path of your colleague Muriel Pénicaud, who was trying to create jobs by promoting redundancies. The cohesion of the territories, according to this draft budget, requires the dislocation of the State. The Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, the Environment, Mobility and Planning – CEREMA – is one of the victims of your budgetary reasoning. It will lose EUR 5 million per year over the next five years. By 2022, a quarter of its workforce will disappear. This panel of experts is, however, a critical point of support for the state and our communities. Without public expertise, how will they deal with major projects such as the Olympic Games and the Greater Paris? Who will maintain and manage the road network in Île-de-France? Let us be concrete, Minister. CEREMA recently intervened at the request of a mayor with whom a private operator insisted that it renovate a bridge in the city, claiming that it would collapse. Of course, there were hundreds of thousands of euros at the key. The public institution you dismantled has shown that there is no risk of collapse. CEREMA, on this and many other occasions, prevented the looting of public funds by providers of questionable advice inspired by greed. So who's gonna take care of it? The answer is clear: over and over again the private! Yet, no, the private sector is no faster, cheaper and better than the public, as evidenced by the many scandals surrounding public-private partnerships. How much public money is lost when you destroy public institutions, minister? By destroying the state and its institutions, you are showing some ignorance of the state of the country. Such decisions may seem anecdotal, but their repetition in so many chapters of the state budget is a certain consistency – not that of cohesion of the territories but rather that of their abandonment! With regard to the reduction of the APLs, everyone has already seen the indefensible nature of your proposal, the most modest in the first place, which will not forget that, while abolishing 400 million euros of APL, you are paying 400 million euros to the 1000 taxpayers paying the most ISF. A whole symbol!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u61	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u62	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u63	At the same time, you strangle social donors by asking them to cut rents as much. I invite you to go and meet the members of the group Vive l'APL! which are currently demonstrating for their rights before the Assembly, in the cold.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u64	I'll go see them!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] They will explain to you that five euros is not nothing! As they follow our debates, I am sending them a warm thought from this rostrum on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party! Some people struggle to pay their rents and you offer them the precarious lease, sadistic invention if it is. Some are looking for a job, while there are so few, and you're calling them multi-recidivists of unemployment. Not finding a job and suffering to keep your home is not a crime, Minister! If you want to save the state and offer it new revenues, go look for them on the tax fraud side!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u67	I will finally mention the cuts suffered by the politics of the city. You remove EUR 46.5 million from the population of the most disadvantaged neighbourhoods, where the needs are greatest. You remove 45,000 assisted contracts including 25,000 sports educator. For a moment, I turn to the justification that you are putting forward, because it has the same structure as the one justifying the decline of the current and future LPA. The scheme would be ineffective, so it should be deleted. Where is the justification for such ideas? Nowhere, for no one defends such aberrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u68	Yes, we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u69	Then ask yourself questions! The homes of young people and culture are in danger throughout the country. The Rhône-Alpes federation has already been put into liquidation and the Ile-de-France federation is threatened. It is popular education that you kill and refer to the private sphere alone. In terms of territorial cohesion, we have more bold ideas to present to you, Minister. Stop cutting the wings everywhere, thinking that the services of the state and local authorities, magically, will work better. If such a paradox had any meaning, the country would be better off at the end of the terms of office of Presidents Sarkozy and Holland. Above all, citizen participation must be placed at the heart of equality between territories and of the projects carried out there. The cohesion of the territories, Minister, presupposes territorial equality. It cannot be imagined in the current configuration of our institutional system, which favours the rich to the detriment of the poor and the centres of the metropolises to the detriment of the rest of the country. We continue to believe that it is necessary, for the unity of its people and the coherence of the territories that make up it, to convene a Constituent.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u70	That's Mr. Mélenchon's voice!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We need to give it a new horizon where your draft budget presents a variation of the usual mantra: to do everything to pay the debt, at the risk of losing our political community there. When you say "cohesion of the territories", you are intensifying the logic of the competitiveness of the territories to the detriment of our most modest fellow citizens. When we defend the Republic, know, minister, that we say "equality"!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u72	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u73	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Special Rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the draftsmen for opinions, ladies and gentlemen, in January 2006, Abbé Pierre came to the chamber of our Assembly to support the SRU law – solidarity and urban renewal – called into question by the majority at the time. On this occasion, he declared: "If I am there,... it is that the honour of France is being questioned." The honor, he said, "is when the fort applies... to help the weak," and he asked the majority then how she had managed to do the opposite. If he were still alive, he would be here, I am certain, more determined than ever, wind up, like all the actors in housing – the HLM movement, solidarity associations, local elected officials, construction professionals. The main question this evening is: despite these unanimous protests, are you going to persevere, minister, alone against all, to bring the burden of budgetary restrictions only to the tenants living in HLM? If the budget for LPA increases, it is primarily because poverty in our country is growing; It is then because the rents in the private rental fleet are subject to speculative drifts, unlike those in HLM Park, which applies regulated rents. Let's put it straight: Article 52 is a deadly poison that engages the vital prognosis of HLM organisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u74	That's too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u75	This article is unfair and ineffective for four reasons. First, the more households eligible for the LPA are housed in an HLM organization, the more penalized it will be. It is therefore a measure penalizing the most virtuous organizations. Secondly, after having suffered a reduction of 5 euros in 2017 and a freeze on the APL's scales in 2018, tenants living in HLM will be condemned to the deterioration of their living environment. More than 80 per cent of the financial capacity to rehabilitate and maintain wealth will be tapped. Third, this article constitutes a deadly danger to HLM organisms. As of 2018, the accounts of 120 public offices and 80 social enterprises for housing will be in the red. This is the case, for example, of the Plaine Commune Habitat office, which I chaired until June this year, when six municipal HLM organizations were merged. We took ten years to straighten it out and those ten-year efforts would be wiped out in one? This will still be the case of the Public Office of Le Havre...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u76	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u77	...– city of the Prime Minister, but also Jules Siegfried, founder of the HLM – whose director announces that he will be "K.O. As early as the first year.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u78	The Prime Minister kills his office!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u79	The fourth and final reason is that the HLM do not earn capital, do not pay dividends, but reinvest all their margins in improvement work, thermal renovation and new production. From the first year onwards, EUR 12 billion will disappear from the order books of artisans and SMEs in the building industry. Your housing strategy is incomprehensible. I do not yet know whether this is an uncontrolled technocratic slippage or a well thought out, coherent policy aimed at weakening the HLM sector and strengthening the private sector. I'm not going to sue you for intent, but I'm warning you. The HLM are more than 120 years old, they have been able to evolve, to reform; They still have to do it. But history has shown us that the sector can be destroyed in a few years, as when Margaret Thatcher made the choice, in the mid-1980s, to dismantle this sector, to the great dam of the British today. There are in the ministries, in Bercy in particular, and in the financial institutions, apprentice sorcerers who have as business model the operation Icade, a huge scandal about ten years ago: first, we group together; then the capital is opened; Then we give in the heritage, with exorbitant gains. Ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, Minister, Secretary of State, you can break this impasse and restore confidence. I proposed a moratorium on article 52 a few days ago. This proposal is now being taken up by all housing stakeholders, including the USH. Since you have announced a major housing law for the month of February 2018, you can now decide on this moratorium. This will make it possible to engage in real dialogue, in a serene and constructive atmosphere, and to draft a bill commensurate with the challenges of the housing crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and NG groups]] Fifteen million men, women and children suffer from mal-housing in France. It is unbearable and unworthy of the sixth world economic power. Housing must be declared a major national cause. If you do, the HLM will be your first rope.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u80	Mrs Christelle Dubos, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u81	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the amount allocated to the Cohesion of the Territories mission is EUR 16.5 billion. I hear each other describe him as deplorable; I would like to remind them that the increase in public spending is not – and must not be – the alpha and the omega of any public policy in this country! For an increase in public expenditure mechanically leads to an increase in household levies, including the most modest ones, and thus potentially to a loss of purchasing power for our citizens. That is what we do not want. That is why we approve of the reform proposed in this draft budget, which will allow for an economy of EUR 1.7 billion next year. This reform is fully justified by our search for more efficient public expenditure on housing. Indeed, the APLs, created more than forty years ago, are no longer achieving their objective of improving the most modest housing conditions. This draft budget, however, makes it possible to better support vulnerable people in access to housing and integration, thanks to an increase in the appropriations under programme 177, to EUR 1.95 billion, an increase of 12%. We should thus achieve the ambitious objectives set by the President of the Republic: 40000 very social housing units on a rental loan aided by integration – PLAI – additional, as well as 40000 places in rental intermediation and 10000 more places in family pensions. Moreover, this draft budget incorporates for the first time the constraints inherent in the accommodation of migrant populations, as part of the management of an exceptional migration crisis. As a social worker, I think we can rejoice. It also reinforces our commitment to energy renewal, with a state contribution of around €110 million to ANAH, which will be able to engage in a real fight against thermal colanders and reduce household budgets, while reducing our carbon footprint. Finally, we can only welcome the doubling of the funding of the ANRU, as much as it was expected by the communities, or the extension of the PTZ and Pinel schemes. Of course, our group understands the reservations expressed by social donors on Article 52, which aims to reduce the rents of modest households in the social park. We have met with these bodies as part of our parliamentary work and remain very attentive to the dialogue initiated by the Government with the HLM movement. The amendment tabled by the Government also takes into account the reservations expressed by the donors, with a view to reaching a solution that is acceptable to all. However, I would like to remind you that today we are taking a decision on the finance bill, not on housing reform, which will be the subject of a bill, which will be discussed at the beginning of next year. The budget of the "Cohesion of Territories" mission is realistic and pragmatic. It allocates the necessary resources to what we consider to be the priorities of housing policy and city policy as well as our commitments to the planet. In this way, he outlines the beginning of a five-year trajectory that deeply reshapes – and we need it – our strategy for a living environment and access to services for all across the country. And that, while participating in our efforts to save money, which contribute to France's credibility with its European partners. For all these reasons, our group will vote on the budget for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u82	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I would like to thank you, Minister, Secretary of State, for the quality of your interventions. We share the same ambitions and the same unwavering will for our country and for its territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u84	Mr Thibault Bazin, for the Republican Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u85	Let's get out of the angelic country!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u86	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we can ask ourselves how this government works. While we are promised, by early 2018, a housing law, this finance bill is already heavily affecting this sector, in an uncoordinated manner. "On the move" on the head! Reform, why not? But not like you do! You impose inadequate provisions, such as the sharp drop in APLs. Your government visibly does not like real estate owners: you stop home ownership by removing the LPA, on the pretext that this mechanism is inefficient, which is far from justified. The accession LPA makes it solvent for modest households that would otherwise be excluded from home ownership. Without APL accession, almost 30,000 transactions per year will no longer be carried out, which will affect 100,000 households by 2022. These are all rented dwellings that will not be released. However, modest accessors often come from the social park. It is a double penalty for young households that will no longer be able to benefit from PTZ or so weakly, when they want to buy in the new in zones B2 or C. In my municipality of Rosières-aux-Salines in zone B2, 100% of the homes that filed a building permit last year received a PTZ, which accounted for 38% of their funding. Without PTZ, no affordable housing! Your reform of the PTZ is deeply antisocial, because the hope of the most modest families to access the property in the nine disappears almost on 95% of the French territory – 98% of Lorraine. This reform is deeply unjust because the PTZ is, in fact, reserved only for the residents of the big cities, even though the majority of workers and employees do not live there. A whole part of the French population, especially the middle classes, is excluded! But the other bad part of your policy is that you're kneeling down the main rental operators. You're forcing them to absorb this drop in APLs, even over three years. If some social donors are able to do so, so much the better for them, but you do not take into account the diversity of actors. Those in the relaxed area will be particularly affected by rents at least 20% lower than rents in the tense areas, by a rate of tenants benefiting from LPAs of up to 70%, when it is 30% in the very tense area. If I take the example of the Lunéville OPH in Baccarat, the proposed measures will result in a reduction in rents of 1 million euros out of a total of 9.2 million, i.e. a decrease of 11%; While self-financing currently accounts for 6.5% of products, it will collapse and become negative at -3.7%. The consequences will be immediate for the main contractor of the borough: suspension of all unstarted projects – construction, rehabilitation and rental maintenance; construction freeze for an amount already exceeding 17 million euros in 2018-2019; In the medium term, the construction of 213 housing units and the rehabilitation of 1036 housing units were called into question. If you do not go back to these measures, 120 building organizations like this one will pass in the red after a few years. Your announcements today don't fix anything. The counterparts you imagine for the lenders are inoperative. Your investment solutions, such as the freezing of the rate in Book A, fixed-rate loans from the Caisse des dépôts et consignations or the extension of the duration of loans will only have an effect in the medium term, while problems arise in the short term. Many, moreover, did not wait for you to renegotiate their debt. Your answer is out of date. The first step is to have own funds. Without equity, we don't borrow, we don't invest. The tenants will be the turkeys of the stuffing. Your housing policy will have dramatic impacts in the province and will worsen the territorial divide. The New World is going to raze! The production of housing by social donors will be divided by two. You are endangering local and regional authorities, guaranteeing their loans. Not to mention the PLH – local habitat plans – which will be obsolete as of January 2, 2018. New production will be very complicated, especially with the refocusing of the PTZ and the Pinel device. How can we justify the exclusion of the majority of the communes of Nancy metropolis, which form a built continuum – I am thinking in particular of Laneuveville-devant-Nancy and its 8000 inhabitants – while in-depth studies justified their eligibility? These measures will automatically have a negative impact on the construction and craft sectors, and thus on employment. In Lorraine, 8,000 jobs are threatened! The budget of the "Cohesion of Territories" mission bears its name badly! It poses a serious threat to tenants, homeowners and the local economy. He's going to hit our territories in particular, already well-wounded. You say you want us to build more, but you're going to provoke the opposite. Your policy will undermine our national heritage; It does not respect France of builders. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You have to review your copy because your budget is unsustainable, antisocial, unfair and unfair. For the survival of our territories, review your budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u87	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is two minutes. We begin with a question from the New Left Group. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u88	Minister, my question is a continuation of my intervention in the enlarged committee last week; It concerns the situation of the rural areas that are dropping out and the conditions under which they are accompanied by the State. While these rural or peri-urban territories, which are often hit hard by the consequences of de-industrialisation, would first need a close and constructive dialogue with the state, you set them aside by making the choice to contract only with 319 large communities. Our rural areas still need investment schemes to relocate the activity. They must be accompanied in order to create a leverage effect. So what is the finding? Rural revitalization areas and land use planning premiums are not enough, or more. What about consolidating calls for projects for town-centres? There is not one but ruralness and the aim of this support to the towns and centres is above all to allow each territory to adapt this tool of revitalization, adapting it as closely as possible to its needs. To accompany our territories is to respect their inhabitants. What about the consolidation of rural contracts? Their signature called for an enormous effort of coherence in the territories. They were not put in place by chance: they were a result of the drop in endowments, which no longer left enough room for communities to invest. The aim was to relaunch the public order. This priority remains! To accompany our territories is to respect the elected representatives by allowing them time to soak up the devices and put them in place. Finally, these two points bring me back to the essential question, which underlies others and on which this budget remains very silent: what efforts are you prepared to make with regard to equalization, specifically for these rural territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u89	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u90	I'm kind of surprised at your question. We have prepared and presented a budget that is favourable to rural areas. The fact that the state contracts with 319 communities – 319 "big accounts" – means that the vast majority of the 36,000 municipalities are not affected by this contract, which is an advantage for them. This is the first time, in many years, that there has been no decline in community endowments. Thus, the financing of rural contracts, which you mentioned, will be continued. That is action, we have said it very clearly, and it is included in the finance bill. As far as equalisation is concerned, FPIC's appropriations are maintained at EUR 1 billion. You know why, honourable Member: while, in the last five years, the ICCF has increased every year, we have stabilized it because some local authorities have said, sometimes rightly, that they are no longer able to finance this horizontal equalization. This stabilization will allow us to take stock and see if we need to change the system in 2019. All the measures we have taken for local authorities are positive measures, which are in line with your concern, Mr. Really, in this budget, I see no financial provision that can serve rural territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u91	We come to a question from the La République group on the move. Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u92	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the energy renovation of housing throughout the country, a real challenge for our society, must address two major issues. The first is to ensure the energy transition. Buildings account for 20% of our greenhouse gas emissions and account for more than half of our final energy consumption. The second issue is thermal precariousness. France has 3.8 million modest households, which suffer from their old housing, especially its poor insulation against the cold. To address these challenges, the Government's major investment plan 2018-2022 plans to halve the number of thermal colanders, which involves the renovation of 1.3 million housing units, with the goal of ending thermal insecurity within ten years. In recent reports, the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development and the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – have stressed the need to speed up the pace of energy work in order to meet the objectives set. They also advocate the readjustment of various existing measures and aids, such as the zero-rate loan, the energy transition tax credit and the National Housing Agency's "Better Living" program. It will also receive an additional €1.2 billion over the next five years, and as of 2018, €110 million, notably for the "Better Living" programme for the poorest households. Minister, how will you achieve the objectives set? How will you ensure the return on investment of these measures and their efficiency in terms of energy balance? How do you intend to mobilise the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and involve it in this realization?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u93	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u94	Mr. Member, the question you are asking is very broad because it relates to the whole policy of the Government, in terms of energy renewal. The President of the Republic had in fact pledged that half of the so-called thermal colanders would be renovated during the quinquennium, especially for people with financial difficulties, i.e. 1.5 million dwellings. The Government is therefore committed to renovating 750,000 housing units within five years. How are we going to do this? As you pointed out, the ANAH is an essential operator. It will see its budget increase by EUR 110 million next year, a budget which is also linked to what is known as carbon credits, amounting to about EUR 600 million. As for the other key player, the Caisse des dépôts, to say the truth, we have had great difficulty in the past in finding the right means to finance energy renewal, particularly through zero-rate loans. Contrary to accepted ideas, it is not so easy to make a profit from an energy efficiency operation, especially over short periods of time. Thus changing windows often appears profitable, because of the resulting reduction in loads, yet this is not so obvious. We must therefore be innovative. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This is one of the components of the major investment plan announced by the Prime Minister: the Caisse des dépôts will bring €3 billion to social donors to renovate their buildings. The Caisse des dépôts will thus have to set up with the Government and other operators – I am thinking, for example, of the Post Bank, which is very active on the subject – appropriate financing, including global financing for the renovation of entire buildings.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u95	We are continuing with a question from the Republican Group. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u96	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the politics of the city, as everyone knows, is a central lever for action in the neighbourhoods of our country, which concentrates the most acute economic and social fragility. However, the state budget for city policy is in sharp decline for 2018: less 84 million euros of commitment authorisations compared to 2017. This decline in funding is likely first to affect urban renewal and the improvement of the living environment, i.e. the funding of the NPNRU. While in 2017, the State contribution was EUR 100 million, it fell to EUR 15 million in 2018. Here we are dealing with a major problem of vision and philosophy. The information report by Senators Anne Guillemot and Valérie Létard on the evaluation of the planning law for the city and urban cohesion of 2014, known as the Lamy law, concludes that while the reform of the city's policy is well under way, it suffers from a lack of means: means to identify pockets of poverty enclaved in areas of social mix; means to strengthen the role of social donors in order to strengthen the mediation mechanisms necessary for the maintenance of public tranquillity; means, above all, to make the ANRU the strategic player in the implementation of a real residential route. I stress this point: without the development of a real supply of intermediate housing in our priority neighbourhoods, in order to accompany the social development of the inhabitants, the city's policy will continue to miss its objectives. In particular, the social mix must be restored, prior to integration. As the National Observatory for City Policy points out in its last report, the tenants of the social park stay longer in their homes when they live in a tense area, because of the difficulty of finding another housing. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My question is therefore: where is the coherence of the government when, on the one hand, it announces its willingness to double the appropriations of the ANRU and to sanctify the appropriations of the politics of the city and, on the other hand, it weakens the first budget of the legislature?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u97	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u98	Mr President, your presentation does not correspond to reality. This budget proposal is a very clear expression of the Government's commitment to strengthening city policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u99	If that were the case, you could have invested!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u100	Today, in France, 1500 neighbourhoods are part of the city's policy. We are spending EUR 448 million on this sector and have decided that these appropriations will be sanctuarised throughout the quinquennium. We have confirmed the State's commitment to allocate an additional EUR 1 billion to the ANRU. Such announcements reflect a genuine political will in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u101	You didn't hear Grigny's call.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u102	I have co-signed a letter with the Minister of Labour so that the aided contracts can be directed to the priority areas of the city. We have made the necessary commitments and we are pursuing the right policy, because we are aware of the difficulties facing these neighbourhoods. But these difficulties did not arise four months ago: they are the result of decades in which, unfortunately, certain territories in this country have been forgotten too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u103	Just like today!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u104	We conclude with a final question from the La République group on the move. Mr. Alexandre Freschi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u105	Section 52 of the 2018 Finance Bill initiates the Government's housing strategy. This strategy, I would point out, must in the long term make it possible to build more, better and cheaper, to meet the needs of everyone, to protect the most fragile, and to improve the living conditions of our citizens, in particular through the energy transition policy. Aware of the challenges of housing policy and the measures to be taken to reduce the cost of construction, while promoting the development of digital services in housing, I wonder about the social utility conventions – CUS – that social donors must submit by 31 December 2017, as well as the validation of the strategic heritage plans that they have been asked to draw up. What will be the consequences of the announced decline of the APLs on these two documents? Knowing that social donors are obliged to deposit these CUS only after validation by their board of directors, and while the decrease of the APLs since 2018 has been announced late, what will be the actual deadlines to be met for the deposit of these agreements? To what extent could the Ministry compensate for any additional costs incurred by social donors in updating these documents?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u106	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u107	Mr President, this is an essential and very technical point. Indeed, by the end of the year, these famous CUSs will have to be reviewed according to certain criteria, essential for setting a framework, and which have been indicated to the social donors. The whole reform that we are undertaking requires de facto to give a little more time for the preparation of these documents, in order to take full account of this reform. So, you're right, MP, you'll have to postpone the CUS deposit.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u108	Wasn't it already decided?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u109	We will quickly communicate the new calendar.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u110	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u111	I call the appropriations of the "Cohesion of Territories" mission, listed in state B. On these appropriations, I have several amendments before me. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 647.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u112	The aim of this amendment is to abound the appropriations for the spatial planning premium – PAT – to raise them to EUR 15 million. We believe that this direct investment aid, designed to promote the establishment and development of enterprises with job-creating projects and sustainable activities in priority areas, is a real need in our territories. This amendment therefore increases the commitment authorisations allocated in 2018 by EUR 5 million, with a view to supporting more specifically the priority strategic dossiers selected for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u113	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u114	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u115	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u116	Minister, are you planning to change the eligibility criteria for this premium because the required levels of investment and job creation are relatively high? Will the areas eligible for regional aid be redefined?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u117	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u118	I confirm that there will be no redefinition. In the recent past, I have used these aids extensively in my duties to accompany the revitalization of certain territories, whether industrial or not. The TAP must be seen as part of a whole, which includes other tools, such as aid for reindustrialization – ARI – or loans from the Economic and Social Development Fund – FDES. There is therefore a whole range of tools for revitalizing a territory, which do not all have the same employment rules and are not all usable in the same geographical areas. But all of them are complementary and depending on the project to be supported, the TAP or the ARI will be used. With this amendment, the Government wishes to increase the appropriations allocated to the TAP, not to change its rules of use. I would point out that some recent strategic issues, such as Whirlpool, have received significant funding under the TAP.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u119	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u120	My first question concerns the source of this EUR 15 million, since it must obviously be a redeployment of appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u121	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u122	My second question, in line with that of our colleague Jean-Louis Bricout, relates to the eligibility criteria for this aid and its zoning. We will not be able to avoid thinking about these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u123	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u124	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u125	On the first point, we are in the framework of the ceiling letter: this is indeed a redeployment. The breakdown, covering EUR 5 million, seems feasible. On the second point, let us not forget that regionalisation depends not only on national legislation but, for the most part, on the European level. This is therefore not an aspect that can be easily changed. I repeat, from my experience – from past years of helping companies or territories in difficulty to revitalize their project – it is not the criteria that are at stake, but the means available.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u126	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u127	However, it is complicated to start examining the amendments, when Amendment No 564, by which the Government amends Rule 52, was tabled a few hours ago and we heard about it from the AFP in the afternoon. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I think you are sincerely looking for a solution, but I am not sure that it can be found outside the framework of a comprehensive project. We are going to consider amendments to Rule 52 as it stands, which raises a real problem of methodology. I know that many amendments have been tabled by parliamentarians; I have the privilege of presenting the first one; But I don't know where we're going or, most importantly, if we can get to the end. We need to be able to discuss established elements rather than a possible version that will be amended; Otherwise, before we can even present our amendments, you will tell us that you are about to change the situation. In order to be able to debate the matter, we would still have to know it now. The aim of this amendment is to reduce the state's contribution to the financing of personalized housing assistance to 2017 levels. The constraints of the LOLF are such that, to do so, we had to reduce the appropriations of another programme all the more: we chose the 177 programme, which we do not really want to reduce the funding; But we leave it to the Government to find a way to re-establish the financing of the LPA – before establishing a comprehensive policy, because, in the area of housing, everything is held.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u128	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u129	You say that yourself, my dear colleague, you empty one program to feed another: exercise is difficult. In this case, you are depriving emergency housing funding from a resource that you are allocating to the National Housing Assistance Fund. Your amendment has already been discussed and rejected by the Finance Committee following the enlarged committee. I understand that this is an appeal amendment to encourage the Government to review its copy of article 52. I therefore invite you to withdraw it, failing which I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u131	[[MM. Little and Pupponi ask for the floor. – Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and NG groups]] As the Special Rapporteur said, recapture 1.9 billion in programme 177, "Accommodation, journey to housing and integration of vulnerable people",...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u132	We must not always give the floor on the same side, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u133	I can't hear you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u134	I simply explained that I could not support your amendment, since taking 1.9 billion from programme 177 to answer the question on Article 52 does not seem to me to be the right solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u135	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u136	Let us acknowledge that the presentation of the amendment is honest: Mr Bazin himself says that he obviously does not want money to be withdrawn from programme 177; It is the game of Article 40 that compels us to such acrobatics to launch the debate. We will not vote for the amendment under discussion, for the reasons that our colleague himself has put forward: there is no question of undermining such an essential position; So we will abstain. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On the other hand, I agree with Mr. Bazin that we should have knowledge of article 52, as amended by the Government, in order to be able to discuss it; Otherwise, the situation will become lunar. Everyone knows that the issue of the LPA will be central to this evening's debate, but we still do not have the amending amendment! For example, after a suspension of the sitting, we could decide to start with this governmental amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u137	I will give the floor to Mr François Pupponi, and then to Mr Stéphane Peu, as an exception to the Rules of Procedure, which provide for two statements per amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u138	The subject is important! We can still talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u139	The subject is sensitive and deserves us to take the time of discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u140	I think we can do this by examining the subsequent amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u141	But the Government cannot tell us that it is in favour of dialogue, that dialogue is open, if, in the Chamber, we are prevented from discussing it. Article 40 obliges us to pass tricks, which consist of removing here what we want to put there. Ministers, in the first part of the draft finance bill, the rapporteur-general has passed an amendment reducing the overall operating allocation by €90 million by ensuring that a subsequent amendment would return them and that the amount of the urban solidarity grant would therefore not be affected... We're still waiting. With this kind of pass tricks, the money can disappear. With regard to the government amendment, where will the appropriations be taken and how are we going to proceed? It is difficult to talk in a virtual way about an aspect that the Government has not yet explained to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u142	I would point out, Mr Pupponi, that we have 115 amendments on the appropriations for this mission and that you will defend the following: do not therefore tell me that you are going to be deprived of your speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u143	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u144	The following amendment has nothing to do with this one!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u145	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u146	We will support the amendment. Article 40 still obliges us to a somewhat complex gymnastics, but it does not seem to me impossible, incongruous, or unfair, on the contrary, to restore the previous level of the APL: in the light of our discussions on the first part of the PLF, we should have no difficulty in recovering the revenues necessary to satisfy this requirement of justice. When we found 10 billion euros for the most fortunate in our country so brightly and quickly, we must be able to maintain the level of social benefits for the most modest.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u148	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor for a point of order – on the basis of which rule, my dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u149	Article 58(2) of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u150	You mean sub-paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u151	[[Protests on the benches of the REM group]] [[Same movements]] No. I just checked. I have a little more seniority than you in this house! Can the old world still express itself, or not?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u152	They're jealous!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The two-point-by-amendment principle applies to the review of the sections of the Finance Bill. It is also the subject of many discussions. But when, on such a fundamental issue as social housing, the minister has responded to an amendment from our group and you have legitimately given the floor to two speakers, you must let the authors of the amendment ask the Government for more information about the response it has given. You have no right to deny them the floor in this case. That's all I wanted to report.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u155	[[Applause on many benches in the REM group]] Since you remind me of your seniority, Mrs Dalloz, I will read to you Rule 58(2) of our Rules of Procedure: "If, obviously, her intervention has no bearing on the rules of procedure, a personal fact or the conduct of the sitting, or if it tends to call into question the agenda set out, the President shall withdraw the floor. The point of order was, therefore, based on Rule 58(1).
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u156	But on the merits, Mrs. Dalloz is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u157	In substance, you don't give the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u158	What an arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u159	It's gone wrong! You won't have to complain next!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u160	I put to the vote Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u161	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 353.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u162	This amendment, without any relation to the previous one, Mr President, concerns the financing of the ANRU. I learned at school that $1 billion divided by ten equals $100 million. The ANRU would therefore need EUR 100 million a year. However, for this year and last year, only EUR 15 million is allocated in total. So 185 million are missing to keep up with the pace of funding announced by the President of the Republic: with the 15 million already allocated, that will be 200 million – 100 in 2017 and 100 in 2018. That is the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u163	[[Movements on the benches of the LR group]] What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u164	You're not going to spend the evening asking for a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u165	It's democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u166	The president is just applying the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u167	Mr President, your amendment has been rejected in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u168	Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u169	Here, however, is a clarification. The aim is to upgrade the budget of the NPNRU – of which you are a specialist – by EUR 85 million for this financial year and EUR 100 million for the previous year, all to finance the EUR 1 billion over 10 years to which you referred. I remind you that the EUR 100 million foreseen in the Finance Act for 2017 had not been consumed; As a result, they were simply cancelled. I regret that the implementation of the NPNRU is so slow, because there is an urgent need to give visible signs of State action in the priority areas of the city. We will therefore all ensure that the necessary funds are available in a timely manner. The first NPNRU agreement was signed last February and three more will be signed by the end of the year. Most of the other programmes are in the pre-figuration stage, i.e. study. For these reasons, my opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u171	Mr Pupponi, you know too well the mechanics of the ANRU and the NPNRU not to know as much about the reality of your amendment as I do. What has just been answered by the rapporteur corresponds to the strict truth. The NPNRU goes until 2031, you know. Last year, when it began, there was no credit consumption – you were in charge at that time; This year, a signature has been made, and we hope that two more will be signed by the end of the year, within the framework of the protocols. In the chronicle of payment appropriations, we have planned EUR 200 million over the duration of the quinquennium. We will see every year where we are. But this is what is likely to be useful for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u172	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u173	In view of the holding of our debates, I request a five-minute suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u174	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u175	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u176	The meeting was resumed. Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u177	Mr rapporteur, technically you are absolutely right: it can be considered that the projects will grow in power – and the ANRU services have explained this in the best possible way. I believe, however, that this is an amendment which also has a psychological aspect. Firstly, the billion euro of the State had to finance, in particular, public facilities, schools or neighbourhood homes, which Action Logement had difficulty financing. That is why last year the State decided to take back its share in the financing of the ANRU. If there is only EUR 15 million, a good message is not delivered. Among the first conventions to be signed, there will be schools that will cost 10, 15, 20 or 30 million euros. However, with EUR 15 million, the project will have to be accepted, without having the money. Secondly, you know very well that Action Logement needs to be reassured, given that the State had said that it would put EUR 6 billion in the previous plan, that there was almost nothing in it and that Action Logement had to bear the EUR 12 billion. Psychologically, don't we have an interest in reassuring our partners – Housing Action and social donors – to say that the state will be at the rendezvous, not only in words but in euros ringing and stumbling?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u178	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u179	Following on from François Pupponi's intervention, but also in response to the Special Rapporteur, I would like to say that, in our discussions with the ANRU, we were rather encouraged to postpone our files – which could be understood – because the payment appropriations had to be mobilised to pay the first PNR. It is not a question of immobility on the part of the communities or the project promoters: it is the ANRU which has very broadly suggested this management, in a way that is understandable. It should therefore not now be blamed on the project promoters. Of the €5 billion in loans, there are 1 billion from the state, 2 billion from Housing Action and 2 billion from the HLM world. I do not take into account the 2 billion people in the HLM world, who are largely subject to the evolution of our discussions, in particular on Article 52. If confidence is restored, as I hope, the HLM movement will honour its commitments to the NPNRU. The 2 billion Housing Action are likely, but not yet signed. It is therefore very important for all actors that the State honours its promises and that the spread of its payments is commensurate with its commitments over ten years. We have to set an example.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u180	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 344.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u181	Funding for the maintenance and construction of social housing is now put at risk by the massive puncture represented by the decline in LPAs for the HLM. At the same time, however, the State's contribution to the National Stone Aid Fund (FNAP) decreased by EUR 150 million, from EUR 200 million to EUR 50 million, while the latter was responsible for contributing to the financing of the development, improvement and modernisation of the social rental stock in metropolitan France. We have tried to find a way of abunding its credits – which, in compliance with Article 40, involves puncturing elsewhere. We have come to the idea of transferring some of the credits dedicated to the Greater Paris, those which relate to a logic of specialization of the territory and concern studies for poles of competitiveness, which unfortunately concentrate economic wealth and contribute to urban sprawl. We propose this transfer, because it seems to us deeply unacceptable to impose on the FNAP an indecent austerity cure in view of the urgency for many inhabitants of Greater Paris to access decent housing with affordable rent. It should not be forgotten in this House that 1.8 million households are now on the waiting list for the allocation of social housing. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The logic is that we should provide the FNAP with resources to meet the needs in Île-de-France. We are obviously opposed to the political choices you make and propose to restore some coherence between the title of the mission "Cohesion of the territories" and its content. Rather than competition and competition, we want equality and solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u183	Madam President, this amendment, which you have already tabled, has been rejected by the Finance Committee following the enlarged committee. You invoke the LOLF, but by its very nature it requires that the expenditure amounts be collected. You are proposing the creation of a second fund. Furthermore, according to our calculations, it would appear that you have also taken the €45.9 million planned for the implementation of the plan contract. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u185	Unfavorable opinion. You are taking more than 100 million euros that are not included in this mission. On the other hand, it is not by removing credits in the Grand Paris that one can find a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u186	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u187	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] I referred to section 40 because we had to think of a way to find funds to meet social housing needs. But it would certainly have been easier to avoid giving billions to some by abolishing the ISF and introducing the flat tax – I pass, and the worst. If you accept your choices, hear that we strongly challenge them! We have been talking about social cohesion for some time now with a technocratic approach to realities which are, for some territories, absolutely inhumane, territories in which it is unbearable to see a government making choices without delay, when it comes to giving more money to the richest, and on the other hand, defer and invoke constraints, by implying budgetary stories, when it comes to giving to those who need it most. You may not hear it, but I am talking about a point of view which is that of the Seine-Saint-Denis...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u188	You don't have a monopoly!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u189	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Of course not! But here we are seven deputies of the same political family, in its broad sense, elected in Seine-Saint-Denis, which is the poorest department in France, even if it has other wealth. Hear that the political choices you make today appear, from the point of view of the Seine-Saint-Denis, literally indecent. We regret your government's lack of imagination when it comes to guaranteeing the right to housing and meeting the needs of the most vulnerable populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u190	Mr Mickaël Nogal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u191	I would like to remind our colleague that the debates are going to last a little while and that it is not, in my opinion, very smart to question all the parliamentarians. We are many elected in areas of the city's politics, popular neighbourhoods, which we defend on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u192	Every time they're moral lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u193	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on several benches in the REM group]] On the grounds that you are elected to the Seine-Saint-Denis department, you claim that you would be in the best position to defend these neighborhoods. Well, no! All the measures provided for in this budget and in the future Housing Act are in favour of the priority areas of the city's policy, in particular. Don't caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u194	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 410 and 425. I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 410.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u195	We know that there was a great gathering of the actors of the city's politics in Grigny, at the end of which they appealed. Among them were the association "Blue White Zebra" or "City and suburbs". The aim of this amendment is to create a EUR 100 million funded platform, which would provide financial support for all associative initiatives emanating from these neighbourhoods – this is precisely one of the demands of the Grigny call. The President of the Republic, in his televised address, said that he had heard the call of the actors of the city's politics in Grigny. Minister, you said that too. We therefore propose amendments that provide a range of answers to this call, which we hope has not only been heard but is supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u196	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 425.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u197	This amendment also echoes the general statements held in Grigny. The working-class neighbourhoods concentrate a lot of hardship and misery, but also have a lot of energy and creativity. If we want to help these neighbourhoods properly, we must of course pay attention to the misery there, but we must also encourage their energy and creativity. That is why this amendment, like the previous one, takes up one of the proposals of the Grigny call, in order to create a national platform allowing the state, as well as economic actors and financiers, to come to support the energy and creativity of these neighbourhoods. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The President of the Republic had said that he was attentive to the general states of Grigny and that he would receive the actors. These guys let me know they're still waiting for the date...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u199	[[Smile]] This amendment proposes the creation of a local solutions agency in the form of a platform to finance experiments in the city's political districts. I see that you have read my report well, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u200	Yes! You are in favour of this amendment then!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u201	I share the observation of the difficulties that these neighbourhoods are encountering, together with that of their associative vitality. I also agree with the need to better finance innovative actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u202	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u203	There is a need to increase the means to implement a major action plan for 50 of the most difficult neighbourhoods. I propose in my report that the financing of this policy should be renewed. The appropriations of the city's policy must be identified and sanctified in each ministry, in order to strengthen the means of common law in the neighbourhoods where this is necessary. The framework for financing innovative actions should therefore be that rather than a new agency. I do not consider that complexity should be added to complexity, nor that a new layer should be added to what already exists. On this amendment, which has not been discussed by the committee, I express an unfavorable opinion, in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u205	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that the solution is to create a local solutions agency! Today, state support for the priority neighbourhoods of city policy must go through flexible and simple arrangements. We are also asked to simplify the functioning of the ANRU, and as former President of the Agency, you know, Mr Pupponi, that we are as attentive to this request as its officials. This project must not result in the creation of a new agency! I would remind you that support for innovation in neighbourhoods is provided by city contracts to the tune of €342.4 million per year, that the "Sustainable and Solidarity City" action of the investment programme for the future 2015-2020 represents €250 million; tomorrow, the financing of the ANRU + component in the framework of the major investment plan will allow EUR 50 million to be spent on high-ambitious innovation territories. But beyond these facts, the general idea that you are developing is interesting, and we will have the opportunity, in the coming weeks, to work together with you on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u206	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u207	We share the idea of these amendments and will support them. They suggest another way to design city politics. There is enormous energy, responsiveness and initiatives in these neighbourhoods; The idea of bringing them together to allow them to emerge from a simple platform – this was the meaning of Grigny's call – is excellent. The city's policy should not be viewed solely from the top; It must also be understood on the ground. That is why we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u208	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u209	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Mrs Sandra Marsaud explained to us earlier, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche), that a small budget could nevertheless serve a great political ambition. But I assure you that views of the Seine-Saint-Denis, the sounding and stumbling species make it possible to create dignified lives when their absence instead increases poverty, insecurity and misery. In Seine-Saint-Denis there are sixty-three priority districts of city politics; 600,000 inhabitants, or 40 per cent of the total population, live in such a neighbourhood. But the budget you are proposing today is down 11%: 46,5 million euros are sabre, sweet! I'm sorry, but after a while, it all ends up making sense, especially when at the same time, local government budgets generally melt like snow in the sun. Communities account for 20% of public spending and have already supported 50% of the effort to reduce government deficits. In some cities – I am a municipal councillor in Sevran – we are touching the bone. These cuts will prevent us from operating minimum public services. In Seine-Saint-Denis, there are twice as many doctors as elsewhere, twice as many green spaces; the courts are saturated; the police stations are experiencing considerable reductions in numbers. Do you want me to mention everything else: cash closures, social centres? It doesn't end anymore! If at the top of the state, we don't hear the anger of these neighborhoods, of those territories that have been abandoned for a long time, then I assure you that we are creating a society that will see tomorrow more elected people on our benches, who will try to build majorities that are more supportive and more equal.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u210	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u211	Mr Laqhila, I was not in the Chamber when you presented your report, but I heard you say that all the signals were red. It was also the meaning of Grigny's call! Here, we often talk about cleavages, but if you were perhaps not in Grigny, all the worthy political tendencies – I will say it like that – were represented there. Mayors from all the partisan spectrum came to explain the reality, pointing out, like you, that the signals were red and that there was a need for superior means. You tell us that they will be found in the ordinary law systems; But these additional resources, which must feed policy in these neighbourhoods, are not found in the budget of culture, sports, or education. Nowhere can we find human resources, while the elimination of assisted jobs has seriously degraded the situation for a multitude of associations working in these neighbourhoods. Tell us where, in this budget, we're supposed to find these ways!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u212	On the identical amendments Nos 410 and 425, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u213	I participated in the beginnings of city politics thirty years ago, and I remember that it was called this – not political neighbourhoods – precisely to refer to common law. The aim was to restore a balance and not to focus on particular areas. In terms of culture or sport, efforts are being made to create dynamics that bring together within cities. The best decision of the mayor of Metz – with whom I did not always agree – was to create the second university media library in a priority area. It was worth all the insertion devices! I don't know why he decided, as much as it wasn't his style, but for twenty years the students have come to meet the young people of the neighborhood calmly and by reading. Many things speak to me in what you say, but I find it hard to understand, when we talk about these issues, why we don't consider it a matter of society. Why stigmatize by saying: "I am from the Seine-Saint-Denis"? There are projects that no one is taking care of; Today, opening an integration company...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u214	You always talk about capital; We can talk about the Seine-Saint-Denis!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u215	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I'm not talking about capital, I'm talking about what I know! Today, the means of common law – the Caisse des dépôts, the regional structures – are amply sufficient to create an integration society in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u216	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 410 and 425.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u217	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 236.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u218	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, this amendment proposes to reallocate the €85 million reduction in commitment authorities for the "City Policy" programme. Indeed, this decrease in appropriations is a factor that destabilizes or even weakens the structures, in particular the smallest associations, which nevertheless fulfil public service tasks essential to the vitality of our territories: crime prevention, urban renewal, health, education and economic revitalization. At a time when the notions of trust and cooperation between the state and the communities are being set up as a key word, let us not abandon ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, to a short-term budgetary logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u220	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Ramadier, as stated earlier, in the current state and at the stage of the programmes, opening up EUR 100 million of commitment authorisations does not seem necessary. On the other hand, it is logically necessary, when more projects are committed, to open more than EUR 100 million in commitment authorisations for several years in order to keep the State's promise. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u222	The same unfavorable opinion, for strictly the same reasons as I explained in replying to Mr Pupponi about the foreseeable consumption of appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u223	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 354.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u224	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u226	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u228	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u229	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u230	I wanted to speak on Mr Ramadier's amendment because he is also elected from Seine-Saint-Denis! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] We support this amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the signal sent to people who are tired of carrying out actions in neighbourhoods where it is very difficult, and who sometimes feel unsupported. When, at the top of the state, we say that we are going to cut budgets further, we are not only at risk of jeopardizing some already fragile structures, but we are discouraging people who are spending crazy energy and who are already exhausted by the mission they are carrying out in these neighbourhoods. It is not good to have removed these credits, and it is absolutely necessary to restore them in order to send a minimum of positive signals to all those people who are fighting on a daily basis in these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u231	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u232	As part of the "Cohesion of the territories" mission of the draft finance law for 2018, you spend more than 430 million euros on city politics. These budgetary appropriations are in line with the recent statement by the Minister for Cohesion of the Territories on policy in this area for the past forty years. This policy is a failure, particularly for the urban suburbs whose development it was supposed to ensure; The billions of euros spent in this framework have not even made it possible to ensure their sustainable development. The meeting, scheduled by the end of the year, of an interdepartmental committee to set up a new ambitious roadmap for this policy for the duration of the quinquennium seems to confirm your orientation: everything for urban areas, nothing for rural areas. Yet a real public policy worthy of this name is 1 euro for the city, 1 euro for rural areas. The lack of tangible results in the city's policy, despite the sums invested, is a reality highlighted by many observers, starting with the Court of Auditors in many reports. Unlike you, we have a balanced vision: in this perspective of rebalancing credits between all the territories and in accordance with our desire to help all our compatriots, especially the poorest, we propose to double the appropriations granted to the actions "Location building and improvement of the park", "Support for home ownership" and "Combatting unworthy housing".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u233	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u234	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this amendment is to withdraw EUR 66 million from city policy in order to allocate them to housing construction programmes and to the fight against unworthy housing. I am very surprised by this proposal, which, on the pretext of a report by the Court of Auditors, aims to eliminate the possibility of equipping the working-class districts, whose difficulties are known, with the means they need to establish equality with the rest of the territory. I must remind you that all socio-economic indicators are red in these neighbourhoods: the unemployment rate is above the national average; 42 per cent of the population live below the poverty line; job insecurity is greater there; access to care, more difficult; school drop-out, more frequent – and the list could be extended further many discriminations suffered by their inhabitants. Rather than abolishing the additional resources deployed in these neighbourhoods, they should be expanded on the contrary! I agree with the Court of Auditors' analysis, but I do not see the relationship between this analysis and your amendment. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u235	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u236	The Government's opinion is, of course, unfavorable. By this amendment, you propose to reduce the appropriations for the "City Policy" programme by 15%. On the contrary, we want, through this finance bill, to increase these appropriations to a significant level – 448 million euros – and to sanctify them for the duration of the quinquennium. We are fully aware, Mr. Secretary of State, myself and the entire Government, of the difficulties that exist in these so-called priority neighbourhoods – and which are indeed for us. Some tell us that the indicators are red; It is true that this is a political debate, so it is quite normal to make such arguments. But it must be acknowledged that these indicators did not turn red last June: they have been red for many years. The birth of the city's politics dates back to forty years: its result would have been totally positive if we no longer needed it! But many difficulties remain, and in some neighbourhoods the drift has increased. We want to act forcefully. We are not content with statements in this regard: we are proving this through this budget. We cannot go against our own proposals: that is why we cannot accept this amendment. The Government's opinion was therefore totally unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u238	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u239	We hear a lot of commonplaces: in these neighbourhoods, there is more unemployment than elsewhere, more waiting for housing – and probably more communalism, for the rest. It is therefore in reality your failure to all, the failure of the policies that you have supported for so many years, that you have been at such a time in the opposition, to such another in the majority. And what you are now proposing is to continue a policy which you recognize yourself that it has failed! You say it doesn't work, but you propose to continue! What we are proposing is to change the paradigm and rebalance this budget. Mr Pajot and I are elected representatives from the Nord and Pas-de-Calais, where there are unhealthy mining dwellings that should be renovated. To do so, to move faster, additional budgetary allocations would be required. Yes, there is a France that has suffered and continues to suffer: we simply propose to rebalance your budget in favour of this France. And you, you propose us to continue as before, that is to say to go into the wall by clapping: excuse us, but we cannot subscribe to this vision of the politics of the city, which has been in failure for so long, and which you want to pursue, on the backs of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u240	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u241	I have the advantage of having been mayor for a long time, and of having lived in this capacity the beginnings of the politics of the city.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u242	Under Pompidou?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u243	[[Exclaims among some non-attached MPs]] I was also, at the time, a regional adviser, and I sat with regional advisers from the National Front. However, the National Front was already rejecting the city's political credits – in this case, on its regional side – before any failure could be seen. For these regional advisors, the music we do in these neighborhoods is not the right music; for them, their inhabitants are not sufficiently focused on French traditions; For them, these neighborhoods don't deserve to be invested in it. It's always the same thing, but today you're going masked: you don't dare to say what you're actually thinking. Today, we must strengthen both the resources devoted to housing – we do not say otherwise – and those devoted to city politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u244	Your reasoning is bogus!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u245	Young people in these neighbourhoods must be proud to live there, because there are extraordinary things going on there. They must be able to be hired, precisely because they live in these neighbourhoods, and for that we must change our paradigm.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u246	Thirty years of failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u247	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on several benches of the REM group]] Well, we haven't put enough money in 30 years! We have to put more: that's how we'll change things.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u248	I call Mr Laqhila to support Amendment No. 326.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u249	With this amendment, I propose that in the draft finance law for 2018, €24 million of appropriations cancelled in 2017. As a first step, I would like to reiterate my full support for the Government's approach to the control of public accounts. The cancellations of appropriations in July were necessary to meet our European commitments. However, some of these cancellations have had harmful effects on the ground. This is particularly the case with regard to the city's policy. Project promoters shall construct their forecasts at the beginning of the year on the basis of an estimate of the amount of the grant they will receive, which shall be notified to them later in the year. As a result, it has been necessary for some communities and associations to review the scope of these useful projects over the course of the year. I think that it is necessary to re-establish these funds to give a strong sign of attention to the priority areas of city policy. In addition, these funds could be deployed as part of a broader action plan for 50 of the most difficult neighbourhoods. As for the amount of this amendment, I do not think that it calls into question the major budgetary balances for 2018. I therefore ask the Government to amend it in order to make the balance positive. Indeed, it tends to withdraw funds from the "urbanism, territories and improvement of housing" programme only for reasons of financial admissibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u251	Mr Special Rapporteur, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment, failing which I urge the House to reject it. You understand the reasons that lead me to take this position.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u252	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u253	I don't know what this proposal is, I don't know where the incomprehensible rafistolage proposed to us by the Special Rapporteur comes from. It must be said that the summary statement of the amendment is tasty. It states: "... in the context of the challenge of aided contracts,...". But who called them into question? Who is guilty of having first created this monster, which is not useful and very expensive, and then of having removed it, putting people at the "chomo'du" and plunging communities into trouble? They're always the same! This amendment is therefore completely hypocritical: we do not agree with this indecent refistolage.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u254	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u255	The National Front confirms that it does not want credits for these neighborhoods: this is not new! Of course, there were probably budgetary measures to be taken during 2017, but if these neighbourhoods are said to be priorities, it is that the same measures should not be applied as everywhere else. The priority therefore is not to abolish funding for these neighbourhoods: this is what the Special Rapporteur is proposing, and I agree with him. In short, it is a question of returning to the very conception of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy: instead of the effort to reduce the budget, it is to them that the budget must make an effort. That is why I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u256	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u257	This amendment proposes to re-establish appropriations for three ambitious projects. This seems important to us, and not unrelated to Grigny's call that we were talking about earlier. These are first and foremost boarding schools of excellence. For having had one in my territory, I know that there is a strong demand for this type of institution, in territories not only affected by social difficulties but where there are many single-parent families who have a great deal of difficulty in coping with the education of children. In this context, boarding is a solution for both children and the family unit. These are the second chance schools. I do not have a national vision on this issue, but I know that at the departmental level, it is a real success. This gives children who have left the school system the opportunity to return, and it works. Finally, these are the ropes of success. We have three ambitious mechanisms, which have proved their worth: it would be a shame to sacrifice them.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u258	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 301.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u259	This amendment aims to abound the 112 programme "Impulsion and coordination of spatial planning policy" to the detriment of the 177 programme "Accommodation, journeys to housing and integration of vulnerable people" to the tune of EUR 14 million. Programme 112 includes, inter alia, the National Fund for Spatial Planning and Development (FNADT). I recall that the Law of 9 January 1985 on the development and protection of the mountain recognized six massifs; For each of them, a massif committee must be set up with a view to drawing up a plan for the development and development of this massif, in order to make the mountain more attractive and, above all, to overcome the territorial divides. From 1984 to 2002, on the Corsican massif, there was no massif committee or planning and development plan, although this was the responsibility of the State. This has left the Corsican massif with a great deal of funding, notably under the FNADT. Since 2002, this competence has been transferred to the Territorial Community of Corsica, with an allocation allocated to the community in return. This allocation amounts to only EUR 150000 per year, which does not correspond to anything for the Corsican massif, either in quantity or in quality. The aim of this amendment is therefore to make a catch-up at a time when Corsica has adopted its first plan for the development and development of the massif. I would remind you that this is not a rachet: it is about developing infrastructure networks, improving access to basic services, particularly in the public service. That is why we are asking for an increase of EUR 14 million in favour of an ambitious scheme for Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u260	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u261	This amendment aims to strengthen the funding of the Corsican Massif Committee, which was reactivated in 2016. The adoption of this amendment would place the funding of this committee at the level of comparable massifs. I am speaking here as elected from a territory far too far from Corsica! I would like to remind you that Corsica is not only a mountain massif, but also an island. The combination of insularity and altitude makes the planning of this territory particularly difficult and costly. Substantial funding is being deployed under Action No 04 of the State Territorial Interventions Programme, in particular with a view to improving the transport network, which is in great need of it. These appropriations would be usefully supplemented by the EUR 14 million proposed by Mr Acquaviva for the massive committee by this amendment. It has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance, but I am personally in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u262	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u263	[[Smile]] I understand that you are attracted to the South, Mr. Special Rapporteur! Nevertheless, the Government is opposed to this amendment, which aims to reduce the appropriations for emergency accommodation to increase those allocated to spatial planning in Corsica. I don't think that's possible. I would remind you that the needs of the Corsican massif have been integrated into the CPER – a State-region plan contract – with €13.6 million. In addition, during the last revision of the CPER for Corsica, these appropriations were increased by 5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u264	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u265	The question relates to the criteria for calculating the funding allocated to the various massifs. How is it that a massif benefits from EUR 15 million, while another massif with an almost equivalent area benefits only EUR 150000? In the case of Corsica, two departments are involved as well as one region. I would point out that this is the only whole regional massif. How can we explain this difference of some 13 million euros between two similar massifs? We do not have a satisfactory answer to this question. Mr Acquaviva's proposal is quite logical in this respect: it tends to make the State's intervention in favour of the various massifs coherent. There should be no difference in treatment between the continental massifs and the Corsican massif. The latter is part of the national territory, and must receive the same aid as the other French masses – unless they assume discrimination, which would be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u266	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u267	I would point out that by this amendment we do not want to go back to the first 28 years of non-financing – from 1984 to 2002 – or to the next 15 years – from 2002 to 2017 – that is to say more than 35 years in total. This amendment concerns only 2017 and aims only at upgrading with the other massifs, in particular Jura, of an equivalent area. We have to explain why the Corsican Massif Committee does not have the same funding as the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u268	I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 345.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u269	The aim of this amendment is to transfer appropriations from the programme on the competitiveness of the territories to the programme on the prevention of exclusion. There are coincidences that expose political ideologies. We note that the Government intends to provide an additional €12 million for programme 112 entitled "Impulsion and coordination of land-use planning policy". This amount will be more accurately allocated to the "Economic Attraction and Competitiveness of the Territories" action. If you can read between the lines, and since according to Lavoisier, "nothing is lost, nothing is earned, everything is transformed", these 12 million euros do not fall from the sky but are taken directly from programme 177 "Accommodation, journey to housing and integration of vulnerable people". We note with horror that the action "Prevention of exclusion" of the said programme has been reduced by EUR 12 million. In these difficult times, it's intolerable. What a message to our fellow citizens than to prefer competitiveness to the prevention of exclusion! If this is the policy of the Government, the Group of the European People's Party cannot, for its part, resolve it and, by this amendment, we intend to restore a little social justice in order to be consistent with the title of the mission "Cohésion des territoires".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u272	The aim of this amendment is to transfer EUR 12 million from programme 112 to programme 177. I agree with you, my dear colleague, that the title of Action No 01 of the 112 programme, 'Economic attractiveness and competitiveness of the territories', is not very clear, but it is in particular the sanctuarisation of the funds intended to help extremely fragile territories, which are mainly directed towards mining basins. Your amendment has already received an unfavorable opinion and was rejected by the Finance Committee at the end of the enlarged committee. I invite you to withdraw it, with the explanations I have given you. Otherwise, I would maintain the unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u273	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u274	Same opinion as the commission. While programs 177 and 112 are part of the same mission, there has never been a question of favouring each other to the detriment of the other, and no transfer of funds has taken place between them. The increase of EUR 12 million in payment appropriations for programme 112 is due to the need to pay the expenditure incurred in 2017 under the State-Métropoles Pact and rural contracts. These appropriations therefore do not correspond to a new expenditure but allow the commitments to be paid. Furthermore, while the term 'competitiveness' is included in the heading of Action No 01 of Programme 112, I would point out that the appropriations grouped within it are intended to promote the economic development of the regions in difficulty. The aim of this action is to overcome territorial imbalances and reduce inequalities by promoting local mobility or by accompanying changes related to industrial restructuring. The aim is to ensure a balanced development of the territories. Your approach, Mr. Member, does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u275	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 346.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u276	The aim of this amendment is to transfer credits from Business France's grants to two environmental plans. The Government plans to reduce the financing of the "Water-Agriculture in Brittany" plan by EUR 3470000, while the financing of the "Chlordecone in Martinique and Guadeloupe" plan is also expected to decrease by EUR 30700 in payment appropriations. The fight against green algae in Brittany is fundamental for the whole region. The funds allocated to it by the State must therefore be commensurate with the stakes. Similarly, the management by the public authorities of the consequences of the scandal of the use of chlordecone, a particularly toxic insecticide, in banana groves in the French Antilles for more than 20 years is a fundamental ecological issue for these territories. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We therefore propose to allocate additional appropriations to programme 162 "State territorial interventions", in particular in favour of the plans "Eau-Agriculture in Brittany" and "Chlordecone in Martinique and Guadeloupe", and to this end, to draw on the credits of the operator Business France, at the heart of recent scandals. Our group believes that the attractiveness of the territories depends primarily on environmental plans that improve the quality of life and economic activity of the territories. How can a government that is at the forefront of climate goals paralyze the international scene and, at the same time, reduce the resources allocated to environmental policies across our territories? "Make our planet great again" would it be just a com' hit? We can't believe it. So in order to do you a service, this is an amendment aimed at bringing your words and actions into line, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. I have no doubt that you will be convinced of this and will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u277	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u278	This amendment reflects concern about the amount of funding for actions under the State Territorial Interventions programme. This programme allows the financing of inter-ministerial actions within a dedicated and fungible envelope in order to allow for some flexibility in management. In this respect, I am very committed to ensuring that the appropriations for these actions are recovered as soon as possible from the appropriations under ordinary law. This is the case for the plan to combat green algae included in Action 02 "Water-Agriculture in Brittany", on water quality in this region. The decrease in financing under this measure is due to the transfer of their management to the Ministry of Agriculture, their amount remaining the same in payment appropriations. With regard to Action 08, which finances the fight against chlordecone and measures to prevent the risks associated with the consumption of products contaminated by this banned pesticide in 1993, I am particularly vigilant: such measures must continue to be financed at a sufficient level. The stakes are considerable and much remains to be done. The reduction in appropriations does not appear to call into question the scheme. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u280	The green algae control plan, launched in 2010, had received special funding. It has now come to an end and is therefore falling back into ordinary law financing. The €5 million required is obtained by redeployment of appropriations from the Ministry of Agriculture. The Chlordecone Plan is also funded. It is in its third phase, and the necessary funding is being put in place to achieve the stated objectives. But allow me, Madam Member, to comment on what you have said about Business France and the Government's commitment to combating climate change. I don't think we have the same vision of the work that Business France does: who, when a company in difficulty needs to be taken over, goes around the investors to try to convince them? I am thinking of cases that you know very well, whether they are tire-making companies, high-tech companies or often environmental companies. Who goes around the investors to try to convince them to invest in our territories? How many French employees today work in companies linked to the international community?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u281	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u282	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] How many foreign investors today allow the development of our companies? Who's taking care of this? It's an agency called Business France. It is not because there is the word "business" that it is absolutely necessary to try to find a connection with another subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u284	[[Same movements]] That is the reality; This is the action of Business France. Please, no amalgam!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u285	The truth is, they're bad at Business France!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u286	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u287	I thank Mrs Obono for raising the issue of chlordecone. And, Mr Secretary of State, we must not use Business France to evacuate from one side something very serious which has happened overseas where a pesticide has been used, with the agreement of the State, leading to the poisoning of land for tens or even hundreds of years because the prevalence of the health effects of this product is still unknown, but we already know that it has caused an increase in cancers in the territories concerned. So it's not a little business! Mr Minister, it is not a good sign to reduce the appropriations for the Chlordecone Plan, which, in my view, were already insufficient to enable us to find the necessary solutions in the field of public health, to accompany farmers and to clean up the land. I will therefore vote for this amendment, for that reason, and beyond any debate on Business France.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u288	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u289	I see no problem in the fact that the appropriations for the Green Algae Action Plan, which has already produced very good results, are transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture. I just want to know what justifies this transfer.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u290	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u291	I wanted to react to the inquiry on the question of Business France. We could also talk about the outcome of the discussions in the case of GM&amp;S... [[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] I think, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, that you have not understood the meaning of our amendments. We have no problem with the company, but when it serves the general interest. Since the beginning of the budget discussion, however, it is evident that the Government has made choices to reduce aid, including to SMEs and especially to low-income households. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no These choices, you have to take care of them. There is no incomprehension or contempt on our part, on the contrary: our proposals for credit transfers are in the interest of both ecology and small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u292	Completely wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u293	It is up to you to take on your choice to reduce the appropriations for the most modest but also, we have shown through several amendments, the appropriations for SMEs and TPEs, and to favour large companies! It's up to you to take on the coherence of your budget and your choices! We take responsibility for our own.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u294	On Amendment No 346, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u295	It is true that the very principle of exercise, which means that new appropriations can only be allocated to a given action or programme if they are withdrawn elsewhere, leads to this kind of thing. Business France, why not? Stéphane Peu reminded him: when there was an emergency – as if to repay 10 billion as a result of the invalidation of the dividend tax – the government was able to table a bill on amending finances. However, what we have been discussing for the past few years are emergency situations, which are always essential appropriations for certain territories, whether Corsica for its development or the West Indies for the clean-up of poisonous land. We are only looking for ways to meet the arithmetical requirements of the fiscal year, but it would probably be necessary, Mr.Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, as he will ultimately be short of much money, to propose to the Government that another amending finance bill be tabled as a matter of urgency in order to respond to all the points raised this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u296	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u297	To supplement my answer on chlordecone, I would point out that the allocation of payment appropriations remains broadly stable, decreasing by only EUR 30700, or 1.51% of the envelope, a decrease largely offset by that of the precautionary reserve rate applied to the programme from 2018. This means that the amount available at the beginning of the 2018 financial year will be EUR 1940000 compared to EUR 1838000 in 2017, an increase of 4%. As regards the plan to combat green algae, a subject which I, as an agronomist, am particularly committed to, it turns out that the original programme has achieved its objectives and reached its end, and that it is therefore logical to move on to the common system. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] One last point at last. Business France favours above all the financing and the search for buyers for SMEs and ETIs: we are very far from the big groups and the ideas received!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u298	I put to the vote Amendment No 346.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u299	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 419.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u300	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u301	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u302	My appeal to the Rules of Procedure concerns the conduct of the sitting. It is said that the night bears advice: the suspension of the session which took place earlier has, in any case, borne fruit. Mr President, one word for the clarity of our debates. We are about to consider a number of amendments to delete Article 52 without having been able to consider in advance the Government's amendment No. 564, which is to be called later. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If the Minister and the Secretary of State agree, we could enter into a comprehensive discussion on this Article 52 after they have presented Amendment No 564 to us. Of course, we could then speed up the pace of our work once the debate had really taken place on this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u304	[[Interruptions on various benches]] Mr Bazin, I am afraid that it is unfortunately impossible to consider the Government's amendment No 564 before the amendments abolishing Article 52. However, I propose a suspension of the sitting in order to consider this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u305	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u306	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u307	Before we come to Article 52, I shall put to the vote the appropriations of the mission "Cohesion of the territories".
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u308	I now call clause 52 of the finance bill, which is part of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u309	The Minister has the floor for a general presentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has indeed tabled an amendment to Article 52, of which I would remind you that it is introducing a major reform of the financing of housing aid, including a reduction in solidarity rent – RLS – applicable in the social park. As a follow-up to the consultation we have carried out, we propose a two-stage reform, based on an improvement in the financing conditions of the donors, in order to ensure the implementation of the RLS and to meet the objectives of renovation and construction, on the one hand, a reform of the status of the social donors by a restructuring envisaged over three years. In the course of our discussions and discussions with the latter, it became clear that the restructuring and modernisation of their model was considered useful and could be carried out without too much difficulty over three years: this corresponds, moreover, to a completely necessary development. In order to create the conditions for the application of this rent reduction by social donors, the Prime Minister proposed a package of financial support measures, including, as has already been indicated in the debate, a stabilisation of the rate of Book A, which will allow for the long-term reduction of the financial burden, the extension of the maturity of the EUR 30 billion of debt held by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, which can last up to ten years, the granting of EUR 2 billion of high-balance sheet loans – these loans constitute a very interesting contribution of own funds – and the granting of EUR 4 billion of fixed-rate loans and EUR 3 billion of subsidized loans, which are included in the major investment plan 2018-2022, to finance the thermal renovation of the social park. In addition, the housing bill, which will be presented to Parliament in the first quarter of 2018, envisages a structural reform aimed at promoting the mutualization and reorganization of bodies, in order to enable them to reach the critical size necessary to work better. Amendment No. 564, tabled by the Government and forwarded to the political groups, amends Article 52 in order first to allow a gradual increase in the total amount of SLR applied by social donors: 800 million euros in 2018, 1.2 billion euros in 2019 and 1.5 billion euros from 2020. In return, the amendment as currently drafted provides for the possibility of further modulating the contribution made by the CGLLS, in order to allocate a fraction of it to the FNAL and to guarantee, as of 2018, a reduction of EUR 1.5 billion in the State appropriations allocated to this fund. In order to support as quickly as possible all social donors – including mixed-economy companies – in the implementation of this reform, the amendment provides that equalisation will take place as early as 2018 within the CGLLS. The Government would subsequently submit proposals to clarify that mechanism. Finally, the amendment aims to allow social donors to use the survey provided for in Article L. 441-9 of the Construction Code for the calculation of the SLA. I would add that in order to make matters easier, the Government will be fully open to the use of VAT, which will also be an important means of financing, of the order, according to our calculations, of 800 million euros. We can discuss it at a later stage. I have always been very supportive of this personally, as it would greatly facilitate the solution of these funding problems. We hope that the dialogue will continue to make positive progress in the public interest. He continues: I have always wanted him, as Mr. Secretary of State, to continue with all the branches of the social donors. This amendment therefore marks an opening in a dialogue that will continue within the framework that I have just indicated: I have no doubt that we are reaching a solution acceptable to social donors and useful for the restructuring of a sector whose situation warrants a vigorous move forward. Through the discussions we have had for more than two months, we have gained the feeling, the certainty itself, that it is necessary to restructure and modernise this sector: we will therefore give ourselves the means to achieve this under conditions which, I believe, will be quite favourable. The Secretary of State and I are fully listening to the social donors in order to accompany them in this process.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u311	I have before me twelve identical amendments, Nos 34, 36, 59, 68, 101, 163, 244, 279, 333, 355, 375 and 404, which delete the article. Ian Boucard, in support of Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u312	Great feat, Minister, Secretary of State: you have managed to federate all the benches of this assembly, but also all the social donors and construction professionals, against this section 52 of the finance bill for 2018! Indeed, it places the cost of the Government's reduction in LPAs on social donors alone. However, the HLM offices have a real usefulness and, it should be recalled, constitute a common heritage for all French people. The provisions of Article 52 will reduce by more than 75% the overall self-financing of a sector which, however, reinvests it entirely in the production and rehabilitation of social rental housing. Thus, in my department of the Territory of Belfort, the investment capacity of the principal lessor, Territoire Habitat, will increase from 20 to 4 million euros per year. In these conditions, who will rehabilitate the social park tomorrow? Who will ensure the thermal renovation of the houses? Who will build new housing to meet the needs of tense areas and diversify supply into less tense areas? Who will adapt these housing units to the ageing population and to situations of disability in order to allow tenants to stay at home if they so wish? Who else will ensure close relations in the priority areas of city policy in which the HLM offices are sometimes the only ones, with social workers and national education staff, to be in contact with the inhabitants on a permanent basis? Finally, which community will be crazy enough to guarantee the loans of the HLM offices from now on? With regard to the counterpart that you are proposing, Minister, they are either worrying, or they reflect a complete lack of knowledge of the subject. You are indeed proposing that the HLM offices borrow more and more, in order to compensate for the loss of revenue that you impose on them: this obviously amounts to hypothecizing the future! You also propose that they sell their assets: if it were so simple, the previous governments would certainly have already done so, Mrs Pinel could confirm it. Your miracle solution lies in the development of the sale of HLM housing. But who is going to buy such housing in the QPVs that are among the poorest neighbourhoods in our country? At best, you would make fragile condominiums, which would prove very difficult to manage. If social housing is to be reformed and the French have given you a majority, they have not given you a mandate to break the machine, not to mention that this reform was not included in the presidential programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u314	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u315	We are beginning to understand, since the beginning of the legislature, that we do not live in the same world as our colleagues in the Republic Group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u316	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u317	[[Exclaims on the REM benches]] Unfortunately, the provisions of this finance bill only confirm this. I will therefore, ladies and gentlemen, try to explain to you what real life is, far from the centre of Paris where you live, in this world where your housing measures will lead to an unprecedented catastrophe and trigger a real crisis in the sector. Of course, many points need to be improved in social housing. Probably. Indeed, fluidity is not assured and the turnover is not satisfactory. Probably. Similarly, some award criteria are too vague. Probably. The question of calculating the number of social housing units within the meaning of article 55 of the Act on Urban Solidarity and Renewal, known as the SRU Act, will have to be reopened in order to take account of the number of housing units not just in the municipality concerned, but throughout the area of the PLH. But, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, by forcing social donors to reduce their rents in order to compensate for the improvised drop in LPAs, you pose a serious threat to both our less affluent citizens and our poorest municipalities. In my commune in Calais, the local public office achieves an annual result of 2.5 million euros. However, your reform will mean that it will be deprived of €3 million in revenue per year. What solutions do you propose to him? It's impossible to play over rents, which is impossible in a commune where just 0.5% of tenants would be concerned, or to sell housing, a huge joke in a commune where 51% of tax homes earn less than 15,000 euros a year! You therefore force the donors of the poor communes to move from a logic of constructor, an engineer, a "dynamizer" to a logic of simple manager. Even in less poor peripheral municipalities, your decision will cause a disaster. First, town halls will never accept the sale of social housing, for fear of reducing their "SRU" rate and falling below the threshold of 20 or 25%. Secondly, donors will no longer build social housing and will no longer maintain the existing structure, further precaring the low-resourced population and delivering it to sleep merchants. Third, you will accomplish the feat of blocking the construction of new subdivisions in the private park as well, since mayors and planners are required to have a certain percentage of social rental housing in any large private program.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u318	Thank you, Mr. Dumont.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u319	But the lenders' cash flow will no longer allow it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u321	I call Mr Guy Bricout to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u322	This amendment seeks to eliminate, in particular, the creation of a reduction in solidarity rent linked to the decrease in the amount of APLs. Such a system would destabilize social housing, harm tenants and be totally counterproductive both socially and economically. I will repeat what has already been said many times. The decrease of EUR 60 per month of the APL for HLM tenants will represent a loss of revenue of EUR 822 million per year for the offices, which will be directly passed on to their self-financing. In the offices, seven out of ten tenants have incomes close to or below the poverty line. This is an injustice between the private park and the public park: the Government is asking the HLM world for more than 1.7 billion euros of effort for 2018, without asking the private park for a euro, which is the main responsibility for the rent increases. It is 11 million HLM tenants who will be affected by this measure. The construction sector will also be affected, as it barely emerges from the crisis and from several difficult years. This sector generates 17 billion euros in works, 1 billion euros in VAT and 870,000 jobs. I have noted that some of our proposals have been taken into account in the amendment tabled by the Government, but it would be necessary to look at it in more detail.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u323	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u324	Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, this section 52, which is the subject of a last-minute amendment, is not very serious! If I believe you are sincere in your search for a solution, the right method would be to discuss first a general framework and then specific provisions within the appropriate legislative framework for each. When, in the summary statement of the amendment, you write: "The Government will put forward proposals to clarify this mechanism at a later stage", it is worrying! Would it not be more prudent to decide on a moratorium and delete section 52, pending the debate on a comprehensive housing bill? Let us give ourselves time to work together and to have a real concertation! In substance, this article, as you propose to amend it, still provides for a reduction of EUR 1.5 billion in State appropriations. Donors are called upon to compensate for this amount to the tune of 800 million euros, through reductions in solidarity rents. We've got 700 million euros left. Who's going to fund them? Where's the pass trick? If I understand correctly, it is the Social Housing Guarantee Fund that will compensate them – but how will it be financed, this compensation? By increasing donor contributions, which would increase from 3.5% to 8%? Let's be serious! Who among you measures the impact of the device? The General Delegate of the Social Union for Housing, Frédéric Paul, believes that this openness of the Government "does not regulate everything"; For my part, I'm afraid she doesn't fix anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u325	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u326	The aim of this amendment is to oppose the reduction in LPAs provided for in the Article, because of the threats this would pose to the investment capacity of social housing organisations. The persistence of the difficulties in housing our most fragile citizens will not be solved by the short-term budgetary approach alone. Housing policy reflects a choice of society. Removing the means of action from social housing is a threat to social cohesion. APLs are a matter of national solidarity. In Île-de-France alone, a decrease of EUR 50 per month in the receipts of tenants of the social park benefiting from the LPA would represent a loss of around EUR 315 million per year for social housing organisations. This is the equivalent of two thirds of the own funds provided by the agencies for the annual production of social housing, i.e. the question of the financing plan for nearly 21,000 social housing units per year. As Stéphane said A little earlier, HLM organizations do not make any profits. They are constantly reinvesting in the development, maintenance and service of the park. The reduction in their activity would threaten thousands of non-relocable jobs in the construction and craft sector. That is why I propose that you delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u327	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 163.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u328	In order to compensate for the reduction of APLs of 5 euros, the Government now wants to impose on social donors rent reductions of up to 60 euros per month and per household. This is a double mistake: the first is to tackle the APLs without reforming them, but by punctuating them by 1.7 billion euros, the second is to put this political choice on social donors. The consequences of this measure, even if its application is spread over time, are disastrous, and tragic for some social donors. Specialists in the sector estimate that approximately 120 HLM offices are at risk of putting the key under the door. It is clear that those who resist this measure will reduce their budget, which will certainly affect the quality of the housing that will be built, the observance of standards and the renovation of the housing units. The scheme will reduce the means of operation for the construction, maintenance and management of 4.5 million social housing units, in a context in which the social situation continues to deteriorate and the demand for social housing is growing, while the rents of the private park are exploding. HLM organisations, which receive a total of some €20 billion in rents per year, will therefore have to tap into their cash flow. However, they face increasing recovery challenges, as the number of beneficiaries living at the poverty line has exploded. According to a Social Housing Union official, today "one in two benefits households living at the poverty line. Ten years ago, the ratio was one in five. In short, it is a measure that undresses Pierre to dress Jacques and that will lead to a profound destabilization of the economic model of social housing, even in our constituencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u329	I call Mr Jean-Louis Masson to support Amendment No. 244.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u330	Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, there are times when we must know how to doubt. I have noted on the flight the statements made on both sides of the Chamber. Mr. Guy Bricout stated that article 52 was the black spot of this mission, Mr. Bazin stated that 30 000 households per year would be barred from accessing the property, and Mr. Pupponi pointed out that the amount of the accession LPA amounted to 150 euros on average per household per month, while the LPA for the rental amounted to 230 euros. For my part, I note that with the destruction of the return on the housing savings plan and the housing savings account, the abolition of the LPA and the reduction of the scope of the PTZ, as provided for in Article 40, all measures favouring the accession of the most modest to the housing that are disappearing. To this must be added the effort required of the social donors, a financial shock that will undermine the agencies concerned, even if the implementation of the scheme is spread over three years and the offices are merged. What worries me is that this will entail the financial responsibility of the local authorities, which are the guarantors of the borrowings of the offices. Therefore, the taxpayer will probably have to put his hand in the pocket. That is why I believe that this Article 52 reflects an unprovoked reflection; Moreover, the submission at the last minute of a government amendment supports this thesis. It would be prudent to delete the article as drafted.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u331	On identical amendments Nos 34, 36, 59, 68, 101, 163, 244, 279, 333, 355, 375 and 404, I have before me a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u332	This is an amendment – to which I associate my colleagues in Ain, Charles de la Verpillière and Damien Abad – which tends to delete this famous Article 52, which has caused great discontent on all benches, as well as among social housing actors. The initial drafting of the article would have led them to take unfortunate or even dramatic decisions; They had no choice but to slow down or postpone new construction or rehabilitation projects, particularly with regard to energy renovations. These provisions will first affect tenants, because housing will not be built or renovated, but also local businesses, which will suffer from investment carryovers. We have heard that, in the face of this discontent, the Government is proposing a new wording; That's the proof that the article was wrong. We can only be surprised by the improvisation shown in this debate! A housing bill was announced for early 2018 and the budget discussion was to continue until the end of the year with the parliamentary shuttle. That is why we propose the deletion of Article 52 as drafted today; the problem must be taken by the right end.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u333	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 333.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u334	It can be seen that Article 52, as you recast it, that is, by trying to save time and by going to a social housing guarantee fund, does not hold the road; And if he doesn't keep the road, it's because you're embarrassed at the corners. We cannot claim that we are doing more social policy as we reduce the APLs, we are weakening the HLMs, we are reducing the public budget for housing and, what was not discussed tonight, we want to relax the provisions of the SRU law for the most affluent cities! [[Exclaims on the REM benches]] The current situation does not support close proximity or DIY. For years, the Fondation Abbé Pierre has given a red card to successive governments, as 15 million French people are affected by the housing crisis. It has been said and said again: in this country, 4 million people are poorly housed or not housed at all. Now, when we look at the numbers, what do we see? That this has worsened since there has been a decline in the share of public expenditure in GDP. And you, you propose to continue this policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u335	No, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u336	[[Same movements]] You are proposing not only to reduce the APLs, which benefit the most disadvantaged, but also to weaken the HLM system, which together with Social Security is one of the two pillars of social policy, as conceived by the National Council of Resistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u337	So, you don't have to change anything?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u338	[[Same movements]] By weakening social housing, all you will succeed in doing is to increase the tension in the private market, because it is the law of scarcity that reigns. When you go to the pockets of the poor, weaken the HLM, you will increase real estate speculation: this is what this policy will lead to! So, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to think carefully before playing again with the sorcerer apprentices.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u339	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u340	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Otherwise, in a few years, it will not be 4 million, but 5 million homes that we will have in this country – because of the policy that you have carried out!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u341	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 355.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u342	We propose that Article 52 be deleted, as the stakes are high. The scheme will result in a decrease of APL 1.7 billion. Not only will the tenants see their APL fall by 60 euros a month, but the effort that will be imposed at the same time on the social sector – and not the private sector – will lead the HLM offices to save on the maintenance, rehabilitation and construction of housing. I have done the calculation for Sarthe and Le Mans: this will represent a revenue loss of several million euros for these organizations. It is ultimately the tenants who will suffer, because of the lack of work to avoid the deterioration of the premises and prevent increasing nuisances. There will be a double penalty for them, especially for the most modest ones, who will see both the LPA and the quality of an already modest housing. I would point out that while France allocates EUR 18 billion, or 0.8% of its GDP, to personal aid, this proportion has remained unchanged since 1996, when housing expenditure has continued to grow. If Germany spends only 0.5% of its GDP on housing aid, it is because rents are much more regulated than in France. Finally, if the quality of housing has improved, it is partly thanks to the LPAs, which have contributed to the financing of this expenditure. For all these reasons, which have already been mentioned on various benches, we propose the deletion of Article 52 and ask to extend the discussion with Bercy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u343	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 375.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u344	I will try not to repeat the arguments put forward by each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u345	It's gonna be hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u346	Listen and you'll see, my colleague. All major financial crises have been linked, in their origin, to real estate issues, starting with subprime issues. Wherever public or social responsibilities have been transferred to the private sector to meet the basic need of housing, crisis, social segregation and financial embolism have sometimes resulted in large-scale crises, such as the subprime crisis, or the Spanish crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u347	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u348	All the evidence we can gather in the European Union shows that we are envious of the economic and social model of HLM. It has its flaws and slags, it needs to reform, but it remains a solid model. However, Article 52, with a shortfall of EUR 1.7 billion in the first year and EUR 1.5 billion in the second, constitutes a death penalty for the sector. It takes one hundred and twenty years to build a model that can be destroyed in two years, or perhaps three. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In any case, we will have "broken" a model that many people are coming to us, and this is the whole paradox of a country like France, capable of breaking a system that works for the benefit of another that does not work – in this case, the market without regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u349	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u350	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 404.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u351	Article 52, which was deeply unjust, was logically unanimous against him. I have heard, Mr Minister, your willingness to break the impasse and the crisis that this article has caused; But the amendment you have tabled reveals above all the improvisation and unpreparation of your reform. In reality, article 52 had to reflect the Government's desire to achieve savings on LPAs, which was the responsibility of social housing to bear the financial consequences. I listened carefully, but a number of questions remain after your amendment. How will the mutual fund, which we committed to implementing, work? The question, as you say, will be decided in the bill that you will submit to us in 2018; But how to deliberate with so many shades? You are talking about measures announced by the Prime Minister, but they have not received the consent of the social donors and the USH, nor have they received your amendment. In short, you are asking the CGLLS to allocate to social donors the resources that the state will deprive them of. In short, we are far from it: without further explanation, Mr.Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, I do not see how national representation could support your amendment, which will have a cascading negative impact on production, that is, on the construction and renovation of social housing in the territories most in need.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u352	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u353	As you will understand, section 52 is an invitation to negotiate for the families of HLM Park. I have heard the Minister's preliminary statement on the government amendment, which I believe is a guarantee of openness. These deletion amendments have already been discussed by the Finance Committee at the end of the enlarged committee. They have received an unfavorable opinion, which therefore remains the same tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u354	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u355	It will also be unfavorable, Mr President. A number of you, ladies and gentlemen, have stressed the need for reform, including what is known as our HLM model. Many representatives of the USH have also told us that restructuring and mutualisation are necessary. I will not go back to the Court of Auditors' reference, the conclusions of which are very clear also with regard to the overall situation of social donors. I have always said and acknowledged that there is a great diversity between the four branches they form, and even within each of them, where social donors are faced with very different situations, so that equalization is essential. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] You therefore accept the need for reform, but I have not heard any proposals on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u356	Yes, we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u357	What we are trying to do, and we will succeed, is to find a balanced solution. This is not only possible, but indispensable. Of course, we are not going to "destroy" HLM organizations, as I have heard. The reactions of the USH, with which I remain in regular contact, are normal, and do not constitute a first. Mr. Pupponi rightly recalled that the "dodus" hunt had been launched on multiple occasions, without success. So I will present things differently. I know, as you do, that a number of structures have significant cash flows, and are known to be so, when others experience difficulties, with reduced or even fragile self-financing capacities. We will take this reality into account. To speak of the HLM model as a "cassage" does not, I repeat, correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u358	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u359	It is the offices themselves that say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u360	We have made opening gestures, and dialogue continues. I also announced, and not only tonight, a way of balance. So the system is in motion, and things will be as constructive as possible in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u361	It seems fair to me, ladies and gentlemen, to limit speaking to one speaker per group. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u362	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] The amendment you have tabled to us, Minister, is a little "abracadabrantesque". So I have a few questions for you. I am reducing the resources for social housing, you say, but I am increasing VAT by EUR 800 million. In this case, why lower the APLs? If you find an additional resource via VAT, you get the missing amount! On the other hand, you are announcing a formula for Book A in order to secure the rate. But this formula, the world of social housing is still waiting for it! In this respect, it is better to have a written and signed form; Otherwise, when ministers pass – this can happen – the formula changes even though it is mathematical. But, I repeat, you have never transmitted to the world of social housing any formula guaranteeing the rate of Book A. It would therefore be welcome if you would give it to us tonight, although we will obviously have an opportunity to discuss it. Thirdly, the increase in appropriations for LPAs makes it necessary, in your opinion, to lower rents; But the rents that are increasing the most today are those, not the social park, but the private park. APLs are paid at the rate of 9 billion euros in the social park, and 9 billion euros in the private park. Why attack the social park, even though the rents are framed there, so that the APLs cannot experience the same inflation as elsewhere? [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] There are therefore three questions, Minister: the formula of Book A; the reason for a decrease in APLs since 800 million euros are recovered via VAT; the reasons for your attack on social housing, if you really want to lower the rents.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u363	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u364	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u365	You understand, Minister, Secretary of State, that we are all trying to give you as many arguments as possible to avoid the biggest mistake, perhaps, of this early quinquennium. Strangely, every President of the Republic has made his mistake: for Sarkozy, it was the decision, taken overnight and without talking to anyone, to abolish the business tax; For Holland, it was the 10 billion euros – now to be repaid – of dividend tax, against which the national representation, which he had not listened to, had alerted him. Today we explain to you the reasons for your error – which will put HLM offices in trouble – and you don't hear them any more. I therefore hope that our colleagues in the La République Group will hear them. Maybe they won't let you make that mistake. I am personally an administrator of an HLM office, which has become famous for the recent echo of the newspaper Le Monde: the HLM office in Le Havre, which was long presided over – and until June – by one of our colleagues, Agnes Firmin Le Bodo, absent from our benches tonight, and which is today by the mayor of Le Havre. This office, I say all the more easily because its president is my political opponent, is very well managed. The rents are as low as possible, as representatives of tenant friendly women or the CNL – the National Housing Confederation – who sit there have been following the accounts very closely for almost forty years. This office is recognized for the tremendous quality of service it offers to tenants.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u366	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u367	I'm finishing, Mr. President. It is recognized, I said, for the quality of its investments and renovations carried out in the Havre agglomeration, and also for limiting, as far as possible, the sale of dwellings likely to be part of a residential route. The best-selling homes in Le Havre...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u368	We really have to conclude, Mr. Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u369	[[Exclaims on several benches in the REM group]] I conclude on this point, Mr President. The best-selling social housing, I said, is the one facing the sea. I'm saying, facing the sea! We understand they're selling well. But why should the poor no longer have the right to live in social housing facing the sea? Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u370	Mr François André has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u371	Several questions are being asked at this stage of the discussion. First of all, how can we ensure budgetary control of the evolution of LPAs without affecting the financing of social housing? Second question: how can we accompany the social housing movement in a transformation that must enable it to better meet its objectives? In order to answer these questions, it is necessary to avoid the mechanisms which would indistinctly penalize all bodies, especially those which, because they house the most modest people at accessible rents, are more dependent on LPOAs than the others, thus more affected by the planned rent cuts. This is, admittedly, the main grievance under section 52; and this grievance must be heard. I would add that if the measure were maintained as it was, there would be a contradiction between the aim sought – better to accommodate our most modest citizens – and the definite result, namely a decrease in the number of constructions. And I am not talking about the economic downturn that this would represent in the tense areas, at a time when we are seeing a welcome start in the building sector. So we have to get out of the crisis. Different levers must be activated to respond to the issues I mentioned in the preamble. The first is the strengthening of mutualization and equalization within social housing, on the understanding that social housing should promote, as far as possible, virtuous organizations. Then comes the one that has my preference: the fiscal lever, which has no direct effect on the operators' gross operating income. Another way is to reform the way rents are fixed in order to better adapt to tenants' incomes and their evolution. For the bad students, finally, the "dodus dormants" as some called them, it is possible for the State to withdraw the approvals issued under the conventions of social utility. These are just a few avenues, but I hope that the dialogue between the Government and the USH, which has fortunately resumed, will strengthen the social housing sector, which our country needs and which, above all, must not be weakened.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u372	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u373	Minister, you did not tell me who would pay for the GLLSC, a legitimate question as a result of the amendment to section 52 that you are proposing. Above all, the provisions of this article do not apply to social donors, nor to candidates for home ownership. Between a PTZ which excludes 95% of the French territory and the abolition of the accession APL, all the elements are gathered so that we cannot accept this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u374	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u375	Minister, Secretary of State, your housing policy still calls for adjustments. You yourself recognize that section 52 is a call for negotiation. We come to question our role and the legislative procedure itself. In the end, we have been discussing this article for a number of hours, to hear us now that, by the time of the second reading, it could be profoundly changed. Wouldn't the simplest thing be to delete this article 52 and give you time to fine-tune it?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u376	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u377	[[Applause on the benches of the LC, LR, NG, FI and GDR groups]] When housing reform is ready, nothing will prevent you from working in parallel with Bercy on a draft amending finance bill, which will implement your decisions finally decided on the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u378	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u379	Let us be clear: this Article 52 orchestrates the endangerment of the entire social housing system. The resulting significant revenue loss – €1.7 billion for HLM organisations – will prevent any long-term vision of the construction and maintenance of social housing. Minister, you are talking about reform, but we see only a counter-reform. You're talking about balance, but I still haven't understood which elements. It is the balance of the golden rule, quite simply, which only leads to an imbalance for social justice. You talk about negotiation, but wait for you to negotiate, precisely, since, as everyone knows, dialogue with HLM organizations is a model of balance and symmetry. On the other hand, when it comes to granting 10, 20 or 30 billion to big companies, through the liability pact for example, you do not announce an amendment to go to negotiate, you vote for the billions you offer! The question of the consequences for employment arises only in a second phase! You take everything backwards, and this compromise amendment is the result of a pseudo-agreement between the Government and the agencies. This is by no means a concession or a social boost, it is a flight forward in an abhorrent balance of forces. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You delay the application of the puncture but it's only back to jump better, or rather to fall better! If the puncture is not sustainable in 2018, I don't see how it could be sustainable in 2020. To believe that donors will be able to reduce their funding needs to this extent in two or three years is illusory. In return for the promise of a three-year spread, you will ask the HLM organizations to give more and more, through the levying of a contribution, to feed a fund. In short, it is a matter for you to realize a new economy so as not to participate in the financing of social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u380	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u381	I will address several points. First of all, what is the state of play today? Where are we from? Several of you have recalled, our country has about 4.5 million social housing units and 1.5 million households are waiting for one. On the other hand, the turnover rate within the social park is very low, around 7%, while it reaches 20% in the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u382	For sure, people stay unemployed for a long time and wages don't increase! And there are poor pensioners who live a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u383	The subject of mobility within the social park is essential and we will have to talk about it again. The third point is the APLs, which now amount to EUR 18 billion. I have heard all the interventions and I respect all the opinions, but let us be aware that 18 billion, that is about half of the national defence budget, and almost half of the national education budget. Ten years ago, the total amount of APL was only EUR 14 billion. What to do? To accept that they represent 24 billion in ten years or more?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u384	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Have confidence in your policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u385	Increase people's purchasing power, and APL's spending will decrease!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u386	Unemployment and poverty are also increasing!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u387	Forty years ago, the decision was made to move from building aid to housing aid. But today, the system can no longer be sustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u388	And why? Don't give the big capital 10 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u389	How can we improve the situation, now that we are in charge? With regard to the lack of social housing and the lack of mobility within the social park, we will discuss this again, but we have already indicated to you, together with Jacques Mézard, during the presentation of the housing strategy, a mobility mechanism with the housing allocation funds. At the same time, we know today that more social housing needs to be built, which requires helping social organizations to build more. To this end, we must work on standards, land, but also on the consolidation of certain social donors. Today, there are some 800 organizations with different statutes – companies, mixed-economy companies, offices. Grouping is indeed a reform carried out by the social donors themselves, because it will allow for more fragile audiences, for the consolidation of own funds, as Mr Bazin mentioned, and for more investment. This consolidation is one of the pillars of the housing strategy and the bill that we will be presenting shortly. Part two: funding. I would like to hear all the arguments on this point. When we arrived at the ministry, we tried, together with Jacques Mézard, to put ourselves in the shoes of a user, that is, a social lessor who must invest. Those who have run an HLM organization know this well: it is the Caisse des dépôts et consignations that must be approached to set up an operation. However, the CDC's funding has changed very little for a very long time. The view was expressed earlier, for example, that the energy efficiency of housing should be improved. All right, but the terms of the CDC's loans to encourage social donors to invest in this area were not attractive so far. Some criticise the lengthening of the debt, but Mr. Little who knows this well knows, some already proposed it ten years ago. This has never been done. We're starting today. Mr Bazin rightly denounced the lack of capital among social donors: the EUR 2 billion of high-balance-sheet loans that we propose represent quasi-equity, capital. Mr Bazin is right to raise this issue, but we are providing an answer. We now believe that, as we fund HLM organizations, we can significantly improve a number of points. That is, in any case, all the financial proposals that we are putting on the table. The third element is social accession. Some wanted to compare our policy with others carried out a long time ago, but there was never a question of selling to any private financial entity! On the other hand, we are wondering how to allow people to purchase housing, especially PLS-type social housing, which is the most expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u390	You're going to create condominiums in trouble. Go to Clichy-sous-Bois to see what such practices have given!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u391	Today, Mrs Autain, our country has 4.5 million social housing units. PLS-type housing accounts for 20% – about 1 million. Imagine that you are a social lessor about to carry out a financing operation for housing deemed to be impossible to sell. This is how we find ourselves today with 4.5 million dwellings that are worthless, I say nothing, in the accounts of the social donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u392	The question is not to sell the HLM to the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u393	All I'm talking about is the occupier's social accession. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Let us continue the reasoning by assuming that 20,000 people each year can purchase a housing of 100,000 euros. Compare these €2 billion to the €20 billion in revenue. With 4.5 million homes and the assumption that I make of 20,000 social acquisitions a year, rents could decrease by 10%. Does the question not deserve to be raised? We need to discuss the substance of it. As the minister pointed out, our goal is nothing but to break the model of social housing. On the contrary, we are seeking to improve funding, social inclusion and mobility within the park.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u394	It's simple: put more money in the house!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u395	Let me turn to the more specific questions that have been asked to me. Mrs. Rabault, you asked us why we were lowering the APLs.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u396	That's not exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u397	It was the same thing. Among the aspects of the reform that I mentioned – grouping, financing, social accession... – we know that we must contain the level of expenditure of the APLs. If we do not set ourselves a reduction target, we will not be able to sustain the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u398	Unless poverty shrinks!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u399	Then you ask why we don't reduce APLs in the private park. We shall return to that when we come to the amendments on the rate of effort. Let us keep in mind a principle: if there is a person who should not lose a euro, it is the one who touches the APLs. If all the mechanisms that we put in place make it possible to increase the earnings of social donors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u400	Social donors don't make any gains!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u401	...the latter will not retain the surplus – which would not be their vocation – but will redistribute them as it is logical, since it is indeed tenants' money. It is these gains that will reduce rents and, therefore, APLs. Unfortunately, there are currently no mechanisms in the private park to improve financing and create gains, which could be used to reduce rents and APLs. The only way to reduce APLs in the private sector would be to pursue a planing policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u402	Rent management works!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u403	You are well aware that today we do not know how to measure the benefits of setting rents. Two cities have set it up, Paris and Lille. In Lille, the administrative court decided to cancel the measure. We have appealed because we believe that the process must continue to its end. You also referred, Mrs Rabault, to Book A and the two questions it raises: the stability of the rate and the calculation formula. We guarantee stability. As for the formula, as you know, it is horrificly complex. It must solve the following difficulty: how to make the rate less sensitive to inflation? She's in the middle of a discussion with the USH.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u404	She's not on the table yet?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u405	No. You know how complicated it is to elaborate. Mr Lecoq, thank you for your advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u406	They were not talking to you, they were talking to the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u407	Social accession is an important element. You imply that the HLM park would not be able to enjoy the best locations. But, in discussions with social donors today, we are addressing topics such as home automation, wood construction, or energy efficiency. In many cases, social housing is of better quality than private housing...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u408	I was talking about the houses that sell.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u409	..., including those that sell. Mr Bazin, the minister said, the government's amendment proposes a gradual reduction in rents, offset by an increase in the contribution to the CGLLS. In discussions with the USH, the CGLLS is mentioned, but a VAT resource could also be considered in the long term. We are open to dialogue. As far as PTZ is concerned, as you know, we want to restore it to all areas. [[Vif applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Finally, Mrs Magnier, you are calling for negotiation, but that is what we have been doing since the first day: negotiations have never stopped and they will continue until the final vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u410	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 34, 36, 59, 68, 101, 163, 244, 279, 333, 355, 375 and 404.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u411	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 69, 165, 246, 260, 356, 390 and 394. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u412	In order not to prolong the debate, I propose that we also defend Amendment No 70, which must be called later. By paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article, you delete the accession LPA on the grounds that this device is inefficient and unattractive. This is a matter of debate because the cost is low in terms of the leverage it generates. For new entrants, this amounts to between EUR 50 million and EUR 100 million. Sales of HLM housing will be compromised, as my colleagues have said. The modest accessors, who often come from the social park, need the specific PTZ and the APL accession. Because we want to support social ownership, we propose, through this amendment, to restore the APL accession.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u413	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 165.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u414	Minister, Secretary of State, in your overall housing policy, you are inviting HLM donors to sell some of their assets to enable them to continue their housing construction mission. In the residential path, you know, the first accession is always the most complicated. The removal of the accession LPA therefore seems contradictory with your housing policy. That is why we propose by this amendment to maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u415	I call Mr Jean-Louis Masson to support Amendment No. 246.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u416	Paragraphs 2 and 3 are justified by an economy of the order of EUR 200 million, which is uncertain. However, thanks to the accession LPA, 30,000 households can finance their home ownership, remaining below the 33% debt threshold. Breaking this French dream also means preventing the residential journey that allows households to grow up in their successive homes during their lifetime. In addition, the economy may be only apparent, because if families are unable to access the property, they will remain in the HLM housing units in which they receive a rental APL with a significantly higher cost. Removing social accession also means depriving the State of VAT resources on acquired housing. It is also necessary to take into account the social cost associated with a less predictable activity of the building. Finally, what will be the social cost over a generation when, after retirement, the most modest French people have failed to leave their HLM? For these reasons, we propose the deletion of paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u417	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do to support Amendment No. 260.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u418	I will withdraw the amendment to maintain the accession LPA beyond 1 January 2018. However, I remain in favour of maintaining this mechanism. As I explained in my report, the APL accession allows the most modest households to access the property, thereby joining the Government's objective of increasing the sale of HLM housing to their tenants. This mechanism, which is currently under negotiation, needs to be reworked. I will ensure that the question of the accession LPA is raised again at second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u419	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 356.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u420	I am impressed: a rapporteur who opposes in her report the abolition of the APL accession, tables an amendment to this effect and withdraws it: what a great consistency! I do not understand, Secretary of State: you claim to want to increase from 6,000 to 20,000 sales of social housing and, at the same time, you suppress the devices that facilitate the purchase. You are smart, you are able to understand that, to increase the number of sales, on the contrary, you have to promote the devices that favour them. You will not get the expected savings as this will force people to stay in social housing. If you want to promote the sale, you have to go back to the abolition of the APL accession which will allow you to save on one condition: to ensure that those who take the place of previous tenants in social housing are not eligible for APL in order to ensure social mix. This requires a settlement policy aimed at social mix, two topics that are never mentioned in your speeches. This silence bothers me, by the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u421	Mrs Christelle Dubos has the floor to support Amendment No. 390.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u422	The REM Group had tabled this necessary and important amendment. In view of the Government's submission and the ongoing negotiation with social donors, we withdraw it. We will resubmit it at second reading if necessary. We will therefore vote against the identical amendments, if they are retained, in order not to impede the dialogue between the Government and donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u423	On the identical amendments Nos 69, 165, 246, 356, 394 and 405, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 394.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u424	We are, of course, maintaining this amendment. I recall that in the letter and spirit of social ownership, there can be no question of the sale of the existing heritage, as you suggest. The objective is to produce new housing that promotes mobility by allowing HLM tenants to access the property and thereby free up social housing in HLM. As you advocate mobility, by removing the LPA accession, you are hindering home ownership for low- and middle-income households. We note, not with astonishment but with some anger, that in this same bill, the products of defiscalization that are intended only for multi-owners who want to expand their real estate assets, and which indecently increase the real estate rent, are maintained. The President of the Republic denies being the president of the rich and powerful. Let his majority prove it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u425	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 405.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u426	The LPA accession is a useful mechanism with a relatively low cost to public finances. I join François Pupponi, it enables us to achieve the goal of social ownership and to respond to the challenges of social mix – much absent from our debates this evening. Minister, you stressed the need to fluidize residential routes. You have the opportunity to do so by allowing tenants to get out of social housing. I do not understand the attitude of the majority group which withdraws an amendment which, I think, would be well perceived by the USH. In the difficult discussions that you are leading, your willingness to encourage social ownership would be a beautiful hand outstretched. If the Government wishes to show its intention to engage in dialogue, to promote social mix and the fluidity of residential routes, it has the opportunity to do so by accepting these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u427	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u428	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand all your arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u429	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u430	[["Ah! »on the benches of the GDR group]] I am personally very supportive of this, especially since I consider the accession LPA to be one of the tools that allows, with the Pinel scheme and the PTZ, to participate in the restructuring of some medium-sized cities. The notion of zoning does not mean much; These are the subjects to be dealt with in the territories rather than areas that could have the effect of excluding. [["Ah! » on the same benches]] But that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u431	We were waiting for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u432	... the Prime Minister negotiates with the five HLM families including the National Federation of Cooperative Societies of HLM, an actor of which we do not often talk about – there is not only the ESH and the offices – and which Marie-Noëlle Lienemann chairs. I am confident that we will come back to this issue at second reading, and that the minister and the Secretary of State will then be able to bring us very good news, including on other arrangements. Pending the outcome of the negotiations, I express an opinion against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u433	It was a good start, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u434	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u435	No better, I dare say! I hear and fully understand all the arguments put forward and very well summarized by Mr Pupponi. Home ownership is an important marker. Let's be clear, my point is only about social accession, and in no way about selling to private donors. Too often it has been said that we are trying to encourage the acquisition by private donors. That is absolutely not our wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u436	Social accession has nothing to do with HLM sales!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u437	It was in order to promote accession that the President of the Republic announced the extension of the PTZ to the whole territory. As your Special Rapporteur has said, we are in the middle of a discussion with the social donors. I hear comments and criticisms on this point, but the timetable is that. Accession is one of the elements of the discussion. So I'm sure we'll have an opportunity to talk about it again as part of the shuttle. Mr Pupponi, Mrs Pinel, you, like other Members, have referred to the policy of settlement and social mix. Objectively, if there is a subject on which we cannot be blamed for being absent, that is the one. The whole housing bill we're trying to build today is about social mix, but we haven't talked about it because we've been through this debate very quickly. Think about Program 177. You will see everything we do about emergency accommodation – see also our "Accommodation First" plan. As you know, Mrs Pinel, we arrive at 40,000 rental intermediations, a figure never reached before. However, rental intermediation is certainly the best vector of social mix that can exist. And we're planning the funding. Settlement policy covers a lot of issues that we will have to discuss when you look at the housing bill. Some are complicated: rent policy, social ownership of property, functioning of the right to effective housing. We are working on these complex issues, so that we can discuss them with you on the occasion of this text. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] It is not because we did not mention settlement policy earlier that it is not a priority for us. And today, the huge stake whatever our policies – city politics, Grand Paris, housing policy – is social mix.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u438	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u439	The real question is, what do we serve? We are being asked today whether we are in favour of re-establishing the accession LPA. When I read the names of the signatories of the amendments, which come from different groups, I have the impression that there is a consensus: national representation tells the Government that it is committed to this mechanism and wishes to maintain it. In that case, why should we not all vote together for its restoration, which will feed the Government's dialogue with the actors? Tomorrow I will find it difficult to explain to our constituents that we have refused to vote on these amendments because the subject will come before us at second reading. Or do not make a first reading and cancel our work! Honestly, if we stayed in the Chamber until an hour and a half in the morning, as much for something. Since consensus is emerging on a major issue, let us vote on the amendments together!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u440	Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u441	My speech will be very brief. For the Republic on the move, the main thing is that housing reform should be carried out with social donors. Now that negotiations are under way, the Prime Minister and members of the Government have been receiving them almost every day for almost three weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u442	There were only three meetings!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u443	No, there's been a lot more than three meetings. The Government will confirm that.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u444	Social donors would be happy if we voted on these amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u445	The discussion between the Government and social donors should continue calmly. You're wondering what we're serving, Mr. Bazin? To move the debate forward. The Government's amendment is the result of lengthy discussions and important negotiations. This is already a major step forward from the original text. We're not giving up. We are following the discussion. If it does not succeed, we will have an opportunity, at second reading and during the shuttle, to return to it. Therefore, we will not vote on the amendments, as we believe they are not coming at the right time. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] This does not mean – on the contrary – that we are not vigilant, motivated, mobilized so that the social accession of all our fellow citizens to property remains an objective. In our territories, it is a policy that we defend with conviction and energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u446	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u447	Minister, you think that your general presentation earlier on the Government's forthcoming amendment has allowed for a better understanding of the subject, but your proposal has nothing to do with what we are saying. We are talking about social ownership, which you want to delete, and your proposal concerns APLs. By removing social accession in certain areas, you attack – it is important to emphasize – one of the pillars of the possibility of a residential journey for people who are going through a difficult time.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u448	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u449	You make another mistake in making it look like we're talking about HLM-related social accession. It's not about that! Of course, there is a policy on the different strategies of access to property, but we are talking about those who want to become owners, and to whom you cut the grass under foot: by applying them a solidarity overloose to the first additional euro, you practically condemn them to leaving the HLM. Those who are in the private sector and who do not benefit from a rent reduction – because you do not open this possibility, by refusing any ceiling – will have to leave this heritage to try to stay in. By keeping the Pinel device, which I support at the limit, you certainly facilitate the situation of the most affluent. But others, those who have very little means, you deprive them of the opportunity to access social housing as owners, and that is regrettable. That is why, Mrs Do, if you do not want your amendment any more, we are only asking for it to be taken back to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u450	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u451	There are things I can't understand. I try to follow the negotiations between the USH and the Government, but the APL accession is not part of the "package" and will never be part of it. Summarizing this device at the perimeter of the HLM alone, it is wrong about its role, which is much wider. As far as I am aware, in the ongoing negotiations, the USH in its last communication requested a moratorium on Article 52, as I myself did. Earlier, the Secretary of State swept away a number of issues that I find legitimate. I have no problem discussing each one of them. But, in his remarks, I heard more questions than answers. The housing bill, which our assembly will consider in February, must identify all the problems – economic model, duration of loans, role of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, rate of Book A – and propose solutions. Such a work cannot be done by crafting a section of the finance bill at more than an hour and a half in the morning, the object of which goes far beyond the question of housing. Finally, why is mobility in the HLM park so complicated? In my city, of the 20,000 housing units in the HLM park, the turnover has fallen in eight years from 10% to 5%, a decrease of half.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u452	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u453	It's simple: to get out of HLM Park eight years ago, we were walking; Today, we have to cross a wall.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u454	Thank you, Mr. Little.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u455	The PLS accession allows...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u456	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u457	Mr. President, democracy at two minutes, we have to stop this! You can't explain your arguments in two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u458	Mr. Little had two minutes twenty. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u459	Secretary of State, I confess that I did not understand all your answers. I don't know how organizations will achieve higher gains... But I understand at least that you are looking for solutions, especially so that APL's spending does not increase every year. That said, if this expenditure increases, perhaps it is because there are more and more poor people in our country, which is not unrelated to the policies that we have been pursuing for years and that you intend to pursue. Anyway, I have a solution for you. I note that the cap on tax niches is constantly increasing despite all parliamentary decisions. To stop them, however, there is no retaliatory measure. I suggest that you really fight tax niches, for example the first one, the CICE, that money that you throw out the windows without it being used for anything. Let's fight the gifts that have been made on the payment of dividends. In return, let's build one million social housing units in five years, which will result in lower rents throughout the park, including the private park, for the reasons I explained. You will even be able to build these houses in a diffuse way, which will allow you to achieve your goals of social mix, since this is apparently one of your concerns. In addition, imagine that you will also restart the BTP. That would be a smart policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u460	When the building goes, it's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u461	Mr Marc Fesneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u462	A fallback amendment, which must be called later, proposes a whistle removal of the device, but first of all paragraphs 2 and 3 should be deleted, which is what the amendments under discussion tend to mean. I have the impression that everyone agrees on the interest of the accession LPA, since all the political groups, including the Republic on the move, have tabled amendments to defend it. I hear the request of the Government and some colleagues to allow some capacity for dialogue in the negotiations, but I would find it difficult to say that I am convinced by this argument. We will vote on article 52 as proposed by the Government, and amended by it, to call for dialogue and openness, but in the name of which would the re-registration of the accession LPA, either in a comprehensive manner or in the transitional mechanism that we propose, be detrimental to the positive work of the Government?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u463	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u464	We will therefore vote for this series of amendments in the interests of consistency. This position seems all the more reasonable to us because, financially, the measure is not likely to destabilise the budget and it would also allow us to move forward with the dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u465	Including the parliamentary dialogue!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u466	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 69, 165, 246, 356, 394 and 405.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u467	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u468	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u469	Mr Coquerel, four amendments remain before that of the Government. Do you really want us to suspend the session for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u470	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u471	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u472	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment No 564 by the Government, which we shall soon be considering, requires a thorough discussion; That is why I will give the floor to two speakers from each group, which will represent about half an hour of examination for this amendment alone. Before this Government amendment, four amendments still need to be considered; Therefore, the meeting should not last longer than one hour. I therefore propose that you look at these amendments tonight rather than next night, which may happen if our debates continue to drift. I now call Amendment No 166. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u473	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u474	You don't have your group's delegation, Mr. Little.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u475	I got it. I confirm the request for suspension of the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u476	Since two groups disagreed with the course of our work, I shall be led to adjourn the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u477	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u478	The debate on the appropriations for the Cohesion of the Territories mission is not on the agenda of Friday, 3 November. In order for the debate to continue tomorrow morning, the Government must submit a letter of amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u479	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u480	[[Laughs and applause]] Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen, senators...
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u481	I take this as a compliment!
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u482	... forgive me, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, I meant – it's the habit, it's a bad nine-year High Assembly cure! –, the Government intends to put the continuation of the discussion of the appropriations of the mission "Cohesion of the territories" tomorrow morning, at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u483	The continuation of the discussion was therefore postponed to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2017-11-02-O1038.u484	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2018: further to the review of the appropriations of the mission "Cohésion des territoires"; review of the appropriations for the Safety Mission and the Special Account for Road Traffic and Parking Control; review of the appropriations of the "General and Territorial Administration of the State" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
